eprints@whiterose.ac.uk
https://eprints.whiterose.ac.uk
Universities of Leeds, Sheffield and York
Deposited via The University of York.
White Rose Research Online URL for this paper:
https://eprints.whiterose.ac.uk/id/eprint/1618/
Article:
Arksey, H and O'Malley, L (2005) Scoping studies: towards a methodological framework. 
International Journal of Social Research Methodology. pp. 19-32. ISSN: 1364-5579 
https://doi.org/10.1080/1364557032000119616
Reuse 
Items deposited in White Rose Research Online are protected by copyright, with all rights reserved unless 
indicated otherwise. They may be downloaded and/or printed for private study, or other acts as permitted by 
national copyright laws. The publisher or other rights holders may allow further reproduction and re-use of 
the full text version. This is indicated by the licence information on the White Rose Research Online record 
for the item. 
Takedown 
If you consider content in White Rose Research Online to be in breach of UK law, please notify us by 
emailing eprints@whiterose.ac.uk including the URL of the record and the reason for the withdrawal request. 

Article accepted by: International Journal of Social Research Methodology: Theory & 
Practice 
 
This is an electronic version of an article published in Arksey, H. and O'Malley, L. 
(2005) Scoping studies: towards a methodological framework, International Journal 
of Social Research Methodology, 8, 1, 19-32. 
 
The International Journal of Social Research Methodology is available online at: 
http://journalsonline.tandf.co.uk/  
 
Open URL link to the article: 
 
http://www.journalsonline.tandf.co.uk/openurl.asp?genre=article&eissn=1464-
5300&volume=8&issue=1&spage=19 
 
 
 
 
SCOPING STUDIES: TOWARDS A METHODOLOGICAL FRAMEWORK 
 
Dr Hilary Arksey  
 
 
 
 
Dr Lisa O’Malley 
Social Policy Research Unit 
 
 
Centre for Housing Policy 
University of York 
 
 
 
 
University of York 
Heslington 
 
 
 
 
 
Heslington 
York  
 
 
 
 
 
York 
YO10 5DD 
 
 
 
 
 
YO10 5DD 
 
Tel. 01904 433608  
 
 
 
Tel. 01904 433691 
Fax. 01904 433617  
 
 
 
Fax. 01904 432318 
E-mail. ha4@york.ac.uk 
 
 
 
E-mail. ljg104@york.ac.uk

 
 
 
 
 

Bionotes 
 
Hilary Arksey is Research Fellow in the Social Policy Research Unit at the University 
of York, Heslington, York, YO10 5DD.  E-mail address: ha4@york.ac.uk.  Her 
research interests include informal care, employment and disability and research 
methods.  Her most recent book (co-authored with Peter Knight) is Interviewing for 
Social Scientists: An Introductory Resource with Examples (Sage Publications; 
1999). 
 
Lisa O’Malley is a Research Fellow in the Centre for Housing Policy at the University 
of York, Heslington, York, YO10 5DD. E-mail address: ljg104@york.ac.uk.  Her 
research interests include research methods; the Internet, health and social policy; 
and the voluntary sector.  
 
 
1

Abstract    
 
This paper focuses on scoping studies, an approach to reviewing the literature which 
to date has received little attention in the research methods literature.  We distinguish 
between different types of scoping studies and indicate where these stand in relation 
to full systematic reviews.  We outline a framework for conducting a scoping study 
based on our recent experiences of reviewing the literature on services for carers for 
people with mental health problems.  Where appropriate, our approach to scoping 
the field is contrasted with the procedures followed in systematic reviews.  We 
emphasise how including a consultation exercise in this sort of study may enhance 
the results, making them more useful to policy makers, practitioners and service 
users.  Finally, we consider the advantages and limitations of the approach and 
suggest that a wider debate is called for about the role of the scoping study in 
relation to other types of literature reviews. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2

Introduction 
 
As the drive towards evidence-based practice has gathered pace, increasing 
numbers of systematic reviews reporting on the effectiveness of treatments and 
procedures have been published by, for example, the Cochrane Collaboration, an 
international body supported in the UK by the UK Cochrane Centre based in Oxford, 
and the NHS Centre for Reviews and Dissemination (CRD) at the University of York.  
The methodology for conducting full systematic reviews in the area of health care, 
education and criminal justice has progressed considerably, and guidelines for those 
conducting reviews are now available (CCEPP 1996, CRD 2001).  Currently, 
techniques are being developed within the social policy and social care field by 
organisations such as the Campbell Collaboration, the Evidence for Policy and 
Practice Information and Co-ordinating Centre (EPPI-Centre), and the ESRC UK 
Centre for Evidence Based Policy and Practice (EBPP). 
 
This rapid growth in undertaking reviews of the literature has resulted in a plethora of 
terminology to describe approaches that, despite their different names, share certain 
essential characteristics, namely collecting, evaluating and presenting the available 
research evidence.  The following lists some of the labels in current usage: (full) 
systematic review; meta-analysis; rapid review; (traditional) literature review; 
narrative review; research synthesis; and structured review.  There do not appear to 
be any consistent definitions of these different review ‘animals’, with the result that 
researchers may use labels loosely.  For instance, there is a risk that reviews defined 
by their authors as ‘systematic’ may not all adopt the same high standards in terms of 
protection against bias and the quality assessment for the selection of primary 
 
3

research.  On this basis the correct label would be ‘literature review’ and not 
‘systematic review’. 
 
The ‘scoping’ study comprises a further type of literature review, yet until recently 
much less emphasis has been placed on the scoping study as a technique to ‘map’ 
relevant literature in the field of interest.  So what might we consider to be the main 
differences between a systematic review and a scoping study?  First, a systematic 
review might typically focus on a well defined question where appropriate study 
designs can be identified in advance whilst a scoping study tends to address broader 
topics where many different study designs might be applicable.  Second, the 
systematic review aims to provide answers to questions from a relatively narrow 
range of quality assessed studies, whilst a scoping study is less likely to seek to 
address very specific research questions nor, consequently, to assess the quality of 
included studies. 
 
It is our contention that greater clarity regarding the terminology and methods that 
surround literature reviews will assist researchers in identifying when and how such 
reviews might be undertaken.  Whilst criticisms have been levied at both ‘traditional’ 
and ‘systematic’ review methods we contend that there is no single ‘ideal type’ of 
literature review, but rather that all literature review methods offer a set of tools that 
researchers need to use appropriately.  To that end the scoping study is one method 
amongst many that might be used to review literature.  Our framework aims to clarify 
when a scoping study might be an appropriate method to adopt and how we might go 
about undertaking this kind of literature review.   
 
 
4

To date, little information is available about how to undertake a scoping study, as 
those scoping reviews that have been conducted tend not to provide detailed 
information (Hagell and Bourke Dowling 1999, Jepson et al. 2001).  This paper 
attempts to address the current gap in knowledge about scoping studies.  Where 
appropriate, comparisons are made with systematic review methods.  We provide a 
model for those wishing to scope the field of interest based on our experiences of 
scoping published and unpublished literature for a study of services to support carers 
for people with mental health problems.   
 
The paper is organised as follows.  First, we present an overview of scoping studies, 
contrasting this approach to reviewing the literature with that of systematic reviews.  
We go on to outline the different stages of a framework for a scoping study, including 
discussion of the advantages of including a consultation exercise.  We conclude by 
exploring some of the advantages and limitations of the scoping study approach to 
reviewing the literature.   
 
What is a scoping study? 
Definitions of scoping studies are few and far between.  At a general level, scoping 
studies might ‘aim to map rapidly the key concepts underpinning a research area and 
the main sources and types of evidence available, and can be undertaken as stand-
alone projects in their own right, especially where an area is complex or has not been 
reviewed comprehensively before’ (Mays et al. 2001: 194; emphasis in original). 
 
Whilst this definition draws attention to the need for comprehensive coverage 
(breadth) of available literature, there may be quite different degrees of depth 
 
5

(amount of information extracted from studies and subsequently reported) covered in 
different kinds of scoping study.  The extent to which a scoping study seeks to 
provide in-depth coverage of available literature depends on the purpose of the 
review itself.  It is possible to identify at least four common reasons why a scoping 
study might be undertaken: 
 
1. 
To examine the extent, range and nature of research activity 
This type of rapid review might not describe research findings in any detail but is a 
useful way of mapping fields of study where it is difficult to visualise the range of 
material that might be available.  
 
2. 
To determine the value of undertaking a full systematic review 
In these cases a preliminary mapping of the literature might be undertaken to identify 
whether or not a full systematic review is feasible (does any literature exist?) or 
relevant (have systematic reviews already been conducted?) and the potential costs 
of conducting a full systematic review. 
 
3. 
To summarise and disseminate research findings 
This kind of scoping study might describe in more detail the findings and range of 
research in particular areas of study, thereby providing a mechanism for summarising 
and disseminating research findings to policy makers, practitioners and consumers 
who might otherwise lack time or resources to undertake such work themselves 
(Antman et al. 1992). 
 
 
6

4. 
To identify research gaps in the existing literature 
 
This type of scoping study takes the process of dissemination one step further by 
drawing conclusions from existing literature regarding the overall state of research 
activity.  Specifically designed to identify gaps in the evidence base where no 
research has been conducted, the study may also summarise and disseminate 
research findings as well as identify the relevance of full systematic review in specific 
areas of inquiry.  However, it is important to note that identifying gaps in the literature 
through a scoping study will not necessarily identify research gaps where the 
research itself is of poor quality since quality assessment does not form part of the 
scoping study remit. 
 
Generally speaking, these four types suggest two different ways of thinking about the 
role or purpose of a scoping study: the first two suggest that the scoping study might 
be perceived as one part of an ongoing process of reviewing, the ultimate aim of 
which is to produce a full systematic review.  The second two types suggest that the 
scoping study might be conceived as a method in its own right - leading to the 
publication and dissemination of research findings in a particular field of enquiry.  The 
aim of identifying gaps in the existing evidence base is clearly important, and may or 
may not lead ultimately to a full systematic review.   
 
The remainder of this paper is concerned with the fourth type of scoping study, aimed 
at identifying gaps in the existing research literature.  We present one methodological 
framework based on our own experiences of conducting this sort of scoping study; 
where appropriate, we identify how the processes we adopted might differ from 
procedures followed for a systematic review.  
 
7

Methodological framework 
Our framework for conducting a scoping study is underpinned by the view upheld by 
proponents of systematic reviews that the methods used throughout the different 
stages are conducted in a rigorous and transparent way (CRD 2001, Mays et al. 
2001).  The process should be documented in sufficient detail to enable the study to 
be replicated by others.  This explicit approach increases the reliability of the 
findings, and responds to any suggestion that the study lacks methodological rigour 
(Mays et al. 2001).   
 
The method adopted for identifying literature in a scoping study needs to achieve in-
depth and broad results.  Rather than being guided by a highly focussed research 
question that lends itself to searching for particular study designs (as might be the 
case in a systematic review), the scoping study method is guided by a requirement to 
identify all relevant literature regardless of study design.  It is likely that as familiarity 
with the literature is increased, researchers will want to redefine search terms and 
undertake more sensitive searches of the literature.  To this end, the researcher may 
not wish to place strict limitations on search terms, identification of relevant studies, 
or study selection at the outset.  The process is not linear but iterative, requiring 
researchers to engage with each stage in a reflexive way and, where necessary, 
repeat steps to ensure that the literature is covered in a comprehensive way. 
 
With these differences in mind, we now go on to describe the stages of the 
framework we adopted for conducting a scoping study: 
Stage 1. 
Identifying the research question 
Stage 2 
Identifying relevant studies 
 
8

Stage 3 
Study selection 
Stage 4 
Charting the data  
Stage 5 
Collating, summarising and reporting the results. 
 
An additional, parallel element is also described regarding the use of a ‘consultation 
exercise’ to inform and validate findings from the main scoping review.  Whilst 
consultation might be viewed as an optional component of the scoping study 
framework, it greatly enhanced our work, a view confirmed by other researchers 
(Oliver 2001).   
 
Framework Stage 1: Identifying the research question 
As with systematic reviews, the starting point is to identify the research question to 
be addressed as this guides the way that search strategies are built.  Thus it is 
important to consider which aspects or ‘facets’ (CRD 2001) of the research question 
are particularly important, for example the study population, interventions or 
outcomes.   
 
Our research question was: What is known from the existing literature about the 
effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of services to support carers of people with 
mental health problems?  We were aware that ‘services to support carers’ was an 
ambiguous term that could include possible benefits deriving from services directed 
toward care recipients, such as day care for example.  We also had to determine 
what illnesses were to be included in the term ‘mental health problems’.  
 
 
9

Defining these kinds of parameters, and considering the implications of adopting 
particular positions, is important at the outset of a scoping study.  Very wide 
definitions of what might constitute services for carers, for example, might reduce the 
likelihood of missing relevant articles, but could also generate an unmanageably 
large number of references.  Our recommendation would be to maintain a wide 
approach in order to generate breadth of coverage.  Decisions about how to set 
parameters on large numbers of bibliographic references can be made once some 
sense of the volume and general scope of the field has been gained. 
 
Framework Stage 2: Identifying relevant studies 
As already indicated, the whole point of scoping the field is to be as comprehensive 
as possible in identifying primary studies (published and unpublished) and reviews 
suitable for answering the central research question.  To achieve this, we adopted a 
strategy that involved searching for research evidence via different sources: 
• 
electronic databases  
• 
reference lists 
• 
hand-searching of key journals 
• 
existing networks, relevant organisations and conferences. 
 
From a practical point of view, decisions have to be made at the outset about the 
coverage of the review in terms of time span and language.  Reflecting time and 
budget constraints, we included only those studies published between January 1985 
and October 2001.  The start date of 1985 was chosen because it was felt that this 
covered major policy changes in the UK and because support for carers is relatively 
recent.  Foreign language material was excluded because of the cost and time 
 
10

involved in translating material.  Whilst we had to adopt these limits for practical 
reasons, it is worth pointing out that potentially relevant papers could have been 
missed.  
 
Electronic databases, the Internet and Research Registers 
Electronic databases usually contain bibliographic details and abstracts of published 
material.  There are a number of issues researchers need to consider before 
undertaking this important stage of the process such as: which databases to search; 
what kinds of related terms might be appropriate to search for, in addition to key 
concepts; piloting the search strategy to allow for refinement; whether any technical 
searching skills are available to assist with the searches; and what the potential costs 
are of on-line access to electronic databases, inter-library loans and photocopying full 
articles that are available locally.  
 
The search strategy for electronic databases is developed from the research 
question and definitions of key concepts.  Researchers may not have the skills 
necessary for designing and executing sensitive search strategies that qualified 
librarians have.  An Information Officer1 from CRD worked with us to identify the 
relevant key words (which may differ from one database to another); she also 
advised on what databases were most likely to produce the type of studies we were 
seeking.  She then devised an initial search strategy, which was later refined in the 
light of early results.  The final version was first used on the MEDLINE database and 
then converted for each subsequent database.   
 
                                                 
1 We would like to acknowledge Su Golder’s valuable support and contribution to the scoping study.   
 
 
11

For our study, searches were made on 12 databases available from CD-ROMs, and 
four via the Internet.  There were huge variations in the number of references 
generated by each database with four databases producing less than ten hits each 
and two (MEDLINE and EMBASE) producing 1,565 and 1,589 respectively.  It is not 
known how effective the different databases were in generating the 204 articles that 
were eventually included in the final selection.  Such information could be useful for 
any similar work likely to be undertaken in the future. 
 
Reference lists 
We found it valuable to check the bibliographies of studies found through the 
database searches - especially systematic reviews and traditional literature reviews - 
to ensure they had been included in the scoping exercise.  This process did identify 
further references, although a saturation point was reached where no new ones were 
being identified.  Citation searches might have also yielded new studies, although we 
did not utilise this technique.  
 
Hand-searching of key journals 
It is important that key journals are hand-searched to identify articles that have been 
missed in database and reference list searches.  This can occur because electronic 
databases may be incomplete, not up-to-date or because abstracting services can 
vary in coverage, indexing and depth of information.  Although most databases 
contain a proportion of British journals, they all tend to have a Western and 
particularly US bias. 
 
 
12

We identified four common journal titles that we felt required hand-searching.  
Unfortunately, not all of the journals were available at the University of York which 
meant travelling some distance to the nearest library that subscribed to the journal(s) 
in question, an unanticipated activity that added to the pressure on time and 
resources. 
 
Existing networks, relevant organisations and conferences 
As other researchers undertaking reviews have found (Badger et al. 2001), using 
existing knowledge and networks can generate information about primary research.  
So, too, can contacting relevant national or local organisations working in the field, 
with a view to hand-searching libraries and/or identifying unpublished work.  We 
contacted a number of relevant organisations including Carers UK, the Sainsbury 
Centre for Mental Health, the Mental Health Foundation, the King’s Fund, and the 
National Schizophrenia Fellowship.   
 
The search can generate many thousands of bibliographic references which then 
need appraising to see whether or not they should be included in the final study 
selection.  Bibliographic software packages such as Reference Manager or Endnote, 
and general text retrieval databases such as Idealist, are useful data management 
tools.  We used an Endnote library which proved invaluable for managing records, 
keeping track of articles and making requests for inter-library loans.  The Endnote 
software was compatible with the word processing package we were using, and it 
was a relatively quick and easy task to produce lists of references for inclusion in the 
final literature review report.  The Information Officer recorded each database 
searched, the years it covered, and the date it was searched for each set of results 
 
13

when they were imported into Endnote.  Knowing what databases were searched 
and from what date is important, especially if there is any likelihood of having to 
update the searches in the future. 
 
The various mechanisms for searching in our scoping study generated a total of 
3,867 references, some 112 of which were identified as the study progressed (these 
were treated in the same way as those generated in the main electronic bibliographic 
database search).  The majority of references (3,755) were found on the electronic 
bibliographic databases, which further emphasises the importance of developing 
skills in this area. 
 
Framework Stage 3: Study selection 
Our initial perusal of the citations indicated that the search strategy had picked up a 
large number of irrelevant studies.  This links to the importance of defining 
terminology at the outset of a scoping study, and in our case reflects some specific 
difficulties such as different country’s terminology to describe carers, and the fact that 
we had sought breadth rather than depth.   
 
We needed a mechanism to help us eliminate studies that did not address our central 
research question.  Systematic review methods develop inclusion and exclusion 
criteria, based on a specific research question, at the outset of the project to ensure 
consistency in decision-making.  Our scoping study adopted similar methods, 
although criteria were devised post hoc, based on increasing familiarity with the 
literature, that we could then apply to all the citations to determine their relevance.  
 
14

The inclusion criteria used in our scoping study related to the: type of study; type of 
intervention; care recipient group; and carer group.   
 
Two reviewers then applied the inclusion and exclusion criteria to all the citations.  
Copies of the full article were obtained for those studies that appeared to represent a 
‘best fit’ with the research question.  If the relevance of a study was unclear from the 
abstract, then the full article was ordered.  A deadline was set, after which it was 
agreed that we would not include any more studies in the analysis.  This is an 
important decision to make when time is limited, although it is good practice to 
indicate in an appendix any articles that have not been reviewed but which may be of 
interest to other researchers.  The next stage requires reviewers to read the full 
articles to make the final decision about whether they should be chosen for inclusion 
in the review.  As Badger et al. (2000) note, abstracts cannot be assumed to be 
representative of the full article that follows, or to capture the full scope of an article. 
 
Out of our original 3,867 references, 453 were ordered through inter-library loans; 
some 30 or so were available locally for photocopying.  Having read the articles in 
full, 204 articles were selected for inclusion in the review.  
 
Framework Stage 4: Charting the data  
The next stage of the work involved ‘charting’ key items of information obtained from 
the primary research reports being reviewed.  ‘Charting’ (Ritchie and Spencer 1994) 
describes a technique for synthesising and interpreting qualitative data by sifting, 
charting and sorting material according to key issues and themes, a similar process 
to the one we adopted hence we have borrowed the term.  In a systematic review, 
 
15

this process would be called ‘data extraction’ and, in the case of meta-analysis, might 
involve specific statistical techniques.  
 
Our charting approach was akin to a ‘narrative review’ (Pawson 2002: 171), which 
takes a broader view that can include, for example, recording information about the 
‘process’ of each programme or intervention included in the review so that its 
‘outcome’ is contextualised and more understandable to readers.  Decisions have to 
be taken about what information should be recorded from the primary studies, and it 
is important to consider how comparisons between different interventions can be 
achieved.  Simply producing a short summary or profile of each study does not 
guarantee helping those readers who might have to make important decisions based 
on the study findings (Pawson 2002).  The ‘descriptive-analytical’ method within the 
narrative tradition, which involves applying a common analytical framework to all the 
primary research reports and collecting standard information on each study, stands 
more chance of being useful.    
 
The data that we charted were entered onto a ‘data charting form’ using the database 
programme Excel.  What should the content of data charting forms include?  
Generally speaking, this will be a mixture of general information about the study and 
specific information relating to, for instance, the study population, the type of 
intervention, outcome measures employed and the study design.  We recorded 
information as follows: 
• 
Author(s), year of publication, study location 
• 
Intervention type, and comparator (if any); duration of the intervention 
• 
Study populations (carer group; care recipient group) 
 
16

• 
Aims of the study 
• 
Methodology 
• 
Outcome measures  
• 
Important results. 
 
Additional standardised data were extrapolated from those studies with an economic 
component.  Together, these data formed the basis of the analysis. 
 
We sought a uniform approach to all 204 studies included in the review, although in 
practice it was often impossible to extract all the information required where research 
reports failed to include relevant material.  As others have noted (Badger et al. 2000), 
data are not always presented in the most accessible of formats.   
 
Framework Stage 5: Collating, summarising and reporting the results 
This stage of a scoping study involves collating, summarising and reporting the 
results.  Again, we can make useful comparisons between the scoping study and the 
full systematic review.  Whilst the process of collecting and reviewing studies for a full 
systematic review may require researchers to read and review a large number of 
studies, only a small percentage may be included in the final report.  Evidence or 
findings from studies not included in the final review may consequently remain 
hidden from publication.  In contrast, the scoping study seeks to present an overview 
of all material reviewed and consequently issues of how best to present this 
potentially large body of material are critical. 
 
 
17

Moreover, unlike a systematic review the scoping study does not seek to ‘synthesise’ 
evidence or to aggregate findings from different studies.  Whilst a scoping study will 
need some analytic framework, or thematic construction in order to present a 
narrative account of existing literature, there is no attempt made to present a view 
regarding the ‘weight’ of evidence in relation to particular interventions or policies.  
This is because the scoping study does not seek to assess quality of evidence and 
consequently cannot determine whether particular studies provide robust or 
generalisable findings. 
 
Having ‘charted’ information from studies, we were able to present our narrative 
account of findings in two ways.  First, attention was given to basic numerical 
analysis of the extent, nature and distribution of the studies included in the review.  
We produced tables and charts mapping: the distribution of studies geographically 
and for the different care recipient groups; the range of interventions included in the 
review; the research methods adopted and the measures of effectiveness used.  This 
part of the analysis shed light on the dominant areas of research in terms of 
intervention type, research methods and geographical location.  We could very 
quickly get a flavour of the main areas of interest, and consequently where the 
significant gaps were.   
 
Secondly, the literature was organised thematically, according to eleven different 
intervention types.  This was another difficult and time consuming activity since there 
was great diversity and/or overlaps among reports; descriptions of some 
interventions were insufficient; and authors’ definitions did not always appear 
justifiable or consistent.  The intervention type became the primary unit of analysis 
 
18

and our final literature review report was organised around these eleven categories 
(see Arksey et al. 2002) 
 
In developing a framework for collating and summarising results, the scoping study 
does force researchers to prioritise certain aspects of the literature.  By adopting an 
approach based on intervention type, our findings tended to subsume theoretical or 
conceptual positions adopted by authors.  An alternative approach may have been to 
base our analysis on competing theories of carer interventions (such as ‘family 
therapy’ or ‘cognitive behavioural therapy).  To this extent it is crucial that the scoping 
study method retains a clarity of reporting strategy so that the reader can determine 
any potential bias in reporting or recommendations.  As with any good quality 
research, the position, or potential bias, of any work must be identified and potentially 
subjective decisions regarding data analysis made clear.   
 
With this in mind, we sought to provide a consistent approach to reporting our 
findings and developed a ‘template’ that we applied to each intervention group.  The 
template began with a small table summarising basic characteristics of all the studies 
included in that particular intervention group, and was followed by commentary 
written under the following nine headings: interventions; sample sizes; participants; 
research methods; outcomes; evidence relating to effectiveness; economic aspects; 
UK studies; gaps in the research.   
 
By applying a consistent approach to reporting the findings we were able to make 
comparisons across intervention types; identify contradictory evidence regarding 
specific interventions; identify gaps in the evidence gaps about individual 
 
19

interventions and across interventions as well as consider possible ‘new frontiers’ 
(such as the Internet).  Of itself, the literature review (Arksey et al. 2002) provided a 
comprehensive and thorough review of available literature and identified numerous 
gaps in the evidence base.  
 
The identification of research gaps in our study relied on two main sources: the 
literature review, which was confined to identifying areas of overall weakness within 
the field by comparing across intervention types and study designs; and the 
consultation exercise which proved invaluable for identifying current issues facing 
practitioners and carers themselves that remained under researched.  It is to this 
final, and optional, stage of the framework that we now turn. 
 
Framework Optional Stage: Consultation Exercise 
Evidence (Oliver 2001) suggests that systematic reviews can be enhanced, and the 
results made more useful, if practitioners and consumers contribute to the work 
(Oliver 2001).  Indeed, there now exists a Cochrane Collaboration Consumer 
Network that includes individuals and community organisations worldwide.  The 
Network supports and develops consumer participation in the Collaboration, and 
helps make the information available to consumers.   
 
In the light of our experiences of the scoping study, we would certainly endorse this 
approach.  As indicated at the start, in addition to the literature review, the scoping 
study also included a consultation element (see Newbronner and Hare 2002).  This 
involved three groups of stakeholders: representatives from national statutory and 
 
20

voluntary bodies; managers and practitioners from local organisations; and ‘key 
informant’ carers.   
 
Contributors to the consultation provided additional references about potential 
studies to include in the review as well as valuable insights about issues relating to 
the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of services that the scoping review alone 
would not have alerted us to.  For instance, whereas primary research reports tended 
to focus on changes in levels of carer burden, stress or knowledge as a measure of 
effectiveness, contributors approached the concept in a more rounded and holistic 
way that encompassed five related dimensions: benefits for the carer; benefits for the 
care recipient; benefits for the family as a whole; the impact of service usage; and, 
long term outcomes for society.  This perspective prompted the research team to 
question the predominance of the use of standard outcome measures.  When 
reporting the findings, we suggested that alternative approaches to determining the 
effectiveness of interventions alongside standard outcome measures should be 
developed and applied.  Although this element of our approach to a scoping study 
may be considered an ‘optional extra’, the consultation exercise did indeed provide 
‘added value’ to the literature review.   
 
Resource implications 
Although scoping studies are often linked to ‘rapid’ appraisal, it would be wrong to 
assume that this method represents either a ‘quick’ or ‘cheap’ option.  Our review 
employed three full time equivalent staff members for six months as well as the 
services of an information officer to conduct literature searches.  The cost 
implications for retrieving documents through Inter Library Loans and the time 
 
21

implications that go along with this retrieval mean that the scoping study should not 
be seen as a cheap alternative to the systematic review, and consequently we would 
urge funders and researchers to be cautious in assuming that a scoping study has 
significantly fewer resource implications than a systematic review.  
 
Discussion and conclusion   
The scoping study framework we have presented in this paper comprises five stages, 
together with an optional consultation exercise.  It is based on our experiences of, 
and learning from, undertaking such a study.  As we said at the outset, there is no 
definitive procedure for scoping the literature, and we are not suggesting that the 
framework presented above is the only ‘right’ methodological approach to take.  On 
reflection, and in the light of comments from colleagues in CRD, it is probably fair to 
say that our model of conducting a scoping study shared a number of processes 
associated with systematic reviews.   
 
The proposed framework includes a role for key stakeholder groups, in the belief that 
including the perspectives of others with knowledge of, and a vested interest in, the 
area under examination gives an important additional dimension to the reviewing 
process.  The framework also reflects the importance of technological developments 
and expertise required to retrieve and manage data.  To that extent, scoping study 
methods may represent a shift in methodological focus away from expert knowledge 
of a particular field associated with the traditional literature review, towards an 
approach that emphasises skills associated with technical knowledge. 
 
 
22

A key strength of the scoping study is that it can provide a rigorous and transparent 
method for mapping areas of research.  In a relatively short space of time (compared 
with full systematic review), reviewers are in a position to illustrate the field of interest 
in terms of the volume, nature and characteristics of the primary research.  This 
analysis in turn makes it possible to identify the gaps in the evidence base, as well as 
summarising and disseminating research findings.  By presenting the results in an 
accessible and summarised format, policy makers, practitioners and consumers are 
better placed to make effective use of the findings.   
 
It would be misleading of us not to acknowledge the limitations of scoping studies.  
They do not, for example, appraise the quality of evidence in the primary research 
reports in any formal sense.  The quantity of data generated can be considerable.  
This can lead to difficult decisions about how far breadth (covering all available 
material) is more important than depth (providing a detailed analysis and appraisal of 
a smaller number of studies).  The scoping study does not address the issue of 
‘synthesis’, that is the relative weight of evidence in favour of the effectiveness of any 
particular intervention.  Consequently, scoping studies provide a narrative or 
descriptive account of available research.  Many of these difficulties are addressed 
by systematic review methods that do require quality appraisal, thereby (mostly) 
reducing the quantity of studies included in the review and placing an emphasis on 
synthesising data.  However, the systematic review process can be very lengthy, a 
key disadvantage when policy makers want information about existing research 
evidence sooner rather than later.   
 
 
23

It would be wrong to view the scoping study method as an easy option simply 
because hard questions about quality appraisal and synthesis are avoided.  
Conducting a scoping study requires reviewers to have high degrees of analytic skill 
in order to develop frameworks through which large numbers of studies can be 
described.  Furthermore, by not addressing issues of quality appraisal, the scoping 
study potentially has to deal with a greater range of study designs and methodologies 
than the systematic review, which has tended to focus on the randomised control trial 
as the gold standard of research design (CRD 2001).  Although efforts are being 
made to develop techniques for the appraisal and synthesis of qualitative data within 
the systematic review community (see, for example, Dixon-Woods et al. 2001), it 
remains the case that the scoping study is more likely to include and disseminate 
findings from a range of different methods and study designs.  Yet at the same time 
the scoping study does not offer any clear means of synthesising findings from 
different kinds of study design.  These issues require further attention if scoping 
studies are to develop and have a future in advancing the evidence base in health 
and social care. 
 
One of the purposes of the present article is to stimulate discussion about the merits 
of scoping studies, and help develop appropriate methods for conducting such 
reviews.  An additional aim for this article is to provide the starting point for a wider 
debate about the role of the scoping study in relation to other types of literature 
reviews: where does one end and the other start?  We look forward to seeing how 
the debate progresses.   
 
 
 
24

References 
 
Antman, E., Lau, J., Kupeinick, B., Mosteller, F. and Chalmers, T. (1992) A 
comparison of results of meta-analysis of RCTs and recommendations of clinical 
experts. Journal of American Medical Association, 268, 2, 240-248. 
 
Arksey, H., O’Malley, L., Baldwin, S. and Harris, J. (2002) Services to Support Carers 
of People with Mental Health Problems: Literature Review Report, Social Policy 
Research Unit, University of York, York. 
www.sdo.lshtm.ac.uk/mentalhealthcarers.htm
 
Badger, D., Nursten, J., Williams, P. and Woodward, M. (2000) Should all literature 
reviews be systematic?’ Evaluation and Research in Education, 14, 3&4, 220-230. 
 
Cochrane Collaboration on Effective Professional Practice Unit (CCEPP) (1996) The 
Data Collection Checklist (York: Cochrane Collaboration on Effective Professional 
Practice Unit).   
 
Centre for Reviews and Dissemination (2001) Undertaking Systematic Reviews of 
Research on Effectiveness: CRD’s Guidance for those Carrying Out or 
Commissioning Reviews, CRD Report 4 (2nd edition) (York: NHS Centre for Reviews 
and Dissemination, University of York). 
 
Charlesworth, G. (2001) Reviewing psychosocial interventions for family carers of 
people with dementia. Aging and Mental Health, 5, 2, 104-106. 
 
25

 
Dixon-Woods, M., Fitzpatrick, R. and Roberts, K. (2001) Including qualitative 
research in systematic reviews: opportunities and problems. Journal of Evaluation in 
Clinical Practice, 7, 2, 125-133. 
 
Hagell, A. and Bourke Dowling, S. (1999) Scoping Review of Literature on the Health 
and Care of Mentally disordered Offenders, CRD Report 16 (York: NHS Centre for 
Reviews and Dissemination, University of York). 
 
Jepson, R., Blasi, Z.D., Wright, K. and Riet, G.T. (2001) Scoping Review of the 
Effectiveness of Mental Health Services, CRD Report 21 (York: NHS Centre for 
Reviews and Dissemination, University of York). 
 
Mays, N., Roberts, E. and Popay, J.  (2001) Synthesising research evidence. In N. 
Fulop, P. Allen, A. Clarke and N. Black (eds) Studying the Organisation and Delivery 
of Health Services: Research Methods (London: Routledge), pp. 188-220. 
 
Newbronner, E. and Hare, P. (2002) Services to Support Carers of People with 
Mental Health Problems: Consultation Report, Social Policy Research Unit, 
University of York, York. www.sdo.lshtm.ac.uk/mentalhealthcarers.htm
 
Oliver, S. (2001) Marking research more useful: integrating different perspectives and 
different methods. In S. Oliver and G. Peersman (eds) Using Research for Effective 
Health Promotion (Buckingham: Open University Press), pp. 167-179. 
 
 
26

Pawson, R. (2002) Evidence-based policy: in search of a method. Evaluation, 8, 2, 
157-181. 
 
Ritchie, J. and Spencer, L. (1994) Qualitative data analysis for applied policy 
research. In A. Bryman and R.G. Burgess (eds) Analysing Qualitative Data (London: 
Routledge), pp. 173-194. 
 
 
 
27

Acknowledgements 
 
This paper is based on a study funded by a grant from the UK NHS Service Delivery 
& Organisation (SDO) Research and Development Programme.  We wish to thank 
our colleagues on this project: Sally Baldwin and Jennifer Harris (SPRU, University of 
York); Anne Mason (Centre for Health Economics, University of York); Su Golder 
(NHS Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, University of York); Elizabeth 
Newbronner, and Philippa Hare (Acton.Shapiro).  We are grateful to Sally Baldwin, 
Julie Glanville, Su Golder, Rachel Peto, Gill Ritchie, Mark Rodgers, Amanda 
Sowden, Alison Wallace and Kath Wright for comments on an earlier draft of this 
paper. We would also like to acknowledge the referees’ comments which have been 
incorporated into the paper.  
 
 
 
28
