Review of General Psychology 
1997, Vol. 1, No. 3, 311-320 
Writing Narrative Literature Reviews 
Roy F. Baumeister 
Mark R. Leary 
Case Western Reserve University 
Wake Forest University 
Copyright 1997 by the Educational Publishing Foundation 
1089-2680/97153.00 
Narrative literature reviews serve a vital scientific function, but few resources help 
people learn to write them. As compared with empirical reports, literature reviews can 
tackle broader and more abstract questions, can engage in more post hoc theorizing 
without the danger of capitalizing on chance, can make a stronger case for a 
null-hypothesis conclusion, and can appreciate and use methodological diversity better. 
Also, literature reviews can draw any of 4 conclusions: The hypothesis is correct, it has 
not been conclusively established but is the currently best guess, it is false, or the 
evidence permits no conclusion. Common mistakes of authors of literature review 
manuscripts are described. 
Narrative literature reviews form a vital part 
of most empirical articles, theses, and grant 
proposals, and of course many articles and book 
chapters are devoted specifically to reviewing 
the literature on a particular topic. Literature 
reviews serve a scientific field by providing a 
much-needed bridge between the vast and 
scattered assortment of articles on a topic and 
the reader who does not have time or resources 
to track them down. Reviews also present 
conclusions of a scope and theoretical level that 
individual empirical reports cannot normally 
address. 
For individual researchers, writing a major 
literature review article is a very infrequent but 
often a very important career contribution. Yet, 
despite the importance of narrative literature 
reviews, no easy and available way to learn to 
write them is known. Research methods text- 
books do not usually explain how to do them, 
even though reviewing literature is an important 
research method. Most graduate seminars in 
research methods likewise devote little or no 
time to them. Apprenticeship with an accom- 
plished literature reviewer seems to be one 
possible strategy to learn this technique, but 
such specialists are rare, and moreover it is 
generally considered more important for stu- 
Roy E Baumeister, Department of Psychology, Case 
Western Reserve University; Mark R. Leary, Department of 
Psychology, Wake Forest University. 
Correspondence concerning this article should be ad- 
dressed to Roy F. Baumeister, Department of Psychology, 
Case Western Reserve University, 10900 Euclid Avenue, 
Cleveland, Ohio 44106-7123. Electronic mail may be sent 
via Internet to rfb2@po.cwrn.edu. 
dents to apprentice with someone who has 
expertise in empirical methods. 
Most research psychologists are trained in 
methods of data collection, and that training 
generally includes how to write empirical 
manuscripts. Not surprisingly, researchers use 
their knowledge regarding empirical papers 
when they write literature reviews. Undoubtedly 
there are important similarities between writing 
literature reviews and writing empirical reports, 
and indeed Bern (1987, 1995) has emphasized 
such parallels and similarities in giving valuable 
tips about writing. Yet, important differences 
exist between writing empirical reports and 
writing literature reviews. In this article, we try 
to offer an overview of the special problems, 
advantages, opportunities, 
and pitfalls that 
pertain to narrative literature reviews, as com- 
pared with writing empirical reports. 
Our own collaboration began, perhaps fit- 
tingly, with a literature review project. We had 
each by that point published a number of prior 
literature review articles and chapters. What 
struck us, however, as we began our work 
together was not how much we knew about the 
process, but how ignorant we still were. With 
each new review paper, reviewers and editors 
raised new and important points that improved 
the style and impact of our reviews. In the 
absence of works that explained how to write a 
literature review, we continued to learn on a 
trial-and-error, 
individual basis, 
guided by 
editors and their consultants. Such repetitive 
instruction is, of course, highly inefficient for 
the field, not to mention a large drain on the time 
and energies of the editorial board of major 
311 

312 
BAUMEISTER AND LEARY 
literature review journals, who find themselves 
giving the same feedback and advice over and 
over. We hope this article can help future writers 
benefit from the lessons we have learned. 
We should note that this article does not deal 
with meta-analysis papers, which constitute an 
important and valuable form of literature 
review. Descriptions of how to do meta-analytic 
reviews are available elsewhere, however (Ea- 
gly, 1987; Rosenthal, 1995). We do not see 
meta-analysis and narrative literature reviewing 
as in direct competition. Where meta-analysis is 
usable (that is, when there are many studies 
available testing the same hypothesis), it is 
generally the preferred method. A narrative 
literature review is valuable, however, when one 
is attempting to link together many studies on 
different topics, either for purposes of reinterpre- 
tation or interconnection. As such, narrative 
literature reviewing is a valuable theory- 
building technique, and it may also serve 
hypothesis-generating functions. Meta-analysis 
is, in contrast, a hypothesis-testing technique. 
Narrative literature reviews also may be useful 
for testing hypotheses when meta-analysis will 
not work, such as when the studies are so 
methodologically diverse as to make meta- 
analytic aggregation impractical. 
Goals of Literature Reviews 
There are several different goals that literature 
reviewers may try to accomplish, and it is 
helpful to have one's goal clearly in mind while 
writing the manuscript. Five main goals can be 
distinguished, and these have implications for 
the structuring of the article and its place--or 
lack thereof 
in the literature. 
The most ambitious goal of literature review 
papers involves theory development. In such a 
paper, the author's primary objective is to 
propose a novel conceptualization or theory 
regarding some psychological phenomenon. 
The manuscript reviews the literature to provide 
a context for describing, elaborating, and 
evaluating the new theory, or indeed the theory 
may be found in the integration of the material 
reviewed. A slightly less ambitious but more 
common type of literature focuses on theory 
evaluation. In this type of review, the author 
does not offer a new theoretical perspective but 
rather reviews the literature relevant to the 
validity of an existing theory (or often two or 
more competing theories). In essence, the 
published literature provides a database from 
which the author draws conclusions about the 
merits of existing conceptualizations. 
The leading review journals most commonly 
publish articles that are aimed at theory 
construction or theory evaluation. Authors 
aspiring to write such reviews must therefore 
recognize that their task is not simply assem- 
bling and describing past work but rather is one 
of building or testing theory. In important 
respects, such an article resembles a report of a 
laboratory experiment: It describes empirical 
evidence that evaluates a theoretical hypothesis. 
Each piece of evidence covered in the manu- 
script draws its value from how it helps build or 
evaluate the overarching theory. 
A third type of literature review surveys the 
state of knowledge on a particular topic. Such 
reviews may provide useful overviews and 
integrations of an area, but they are not intended 
to offer novel ideas, new interpretations, or 
sweeping conclusions. These reviews can be 
valuable as a means of pulling together what is 
known about a particular phenomenon, such as 
for a grant proposal, or as a resource to teachers. 
Because the theoretical contribution is minimal, 
however, the leading journals are generally 
reluctant to publish manuscripts of this kind. 
A fourth category of literature review has 
problem identification as its goal. The purpose is 
to reveal problems, weaknesses, contradictions, 
or controversies in a particular area of investiga- 
tion. The author may venture some tentative 
solutions to the problems he or she identifies but 
is more concerned with simply informing the 
field that some difficulty exists. Thus, such 
articles typically raise more questions than they 
answer, leaving it to future researchers to 
straighten out the mess. These would appear in 
journals probably more as brief articles or 
critiques than as full-length articles. Still, 
identifying problems in the empirical literature 
can serve a valuable scientific function. 
A final, less common goal of a review article 
is to provide a historical account of the 
development of theory and research on a 
particular topic. Such papers are typically 
organized chronologically and, although their 
goal is primarily to trace the history of an idea, 
they typically provide an ongoing commentary 
regarding the impact and shortcomings of 
various contributions to the field. 

WRITING LITERATURE REVIEWS 
313 
Distinctive Aspects of Literature Reviews 
Most research psychologists have received 
some training in how to write empirical reports. 
Not surprisingly, they use that knowledge when 
they write literature reviews. Undoubtedly, there 
are important similarities, but we focus on the 
differences between writing empirical reports 
and writing literature reviews because these 
offer the best opportunity to appreciate the 
special nature of the latter. In this section, 
therefore, we seek to cover what sets the 
literature review apart from empirical reports-- 
in terms of both problems and opportunities. 
Scope of Question and Level of Abstraction 
A first point about the usefulness of literature 
reviews is that they allow the researcher to 
address much broader questions than a single 
empirical study can. By focusing on patterns and 
connections among many empirical findings, a 
literature review can address theoretical ques- 
tions that are beyond the scope of any one study. 
At most, an empirical report can raise such 
implications in a brief and speculative way, 
whereas a literature review can permit conclu- 
sions about them. 
Most writers of empirical articles have 
probably been pressured by reviewers and 
editors to rein in theoretical claims that were 
seen as excessively speculative. The editorial 
consultants point out, usually rightly, that the 
zealous author's sweeping conclusions are not 
warranted by his or her data set. We have two 
points to make about this. First, the incapacity of 
the data set to justify such theoretical claims 
probably does not reflect a flaw in that particular 
study, but rather it reflects a limitation in the 
very nature of single data sets. Any single study 
will rarely yield enough data that can justify 
broad conclusions about human nature, human 
behavior, or the human condition. 
Second, and perhaps more importantly, those 
sweeping claims that the author desires to make 
might well be true. (After all, there are 
presumably some interesting and valid general- 
izations to be made.) A serious problem is then 
apparent. If such general patterns and principles 
exist, but no single empirical study is adequate 
to justify drawing such broad conclusions, how 
are they to be found or contributed to the field? 
Another way of looking at the same problem 
is to say that our empirical journals are filled 
with underinterpreted results. The editors are 
correct in insisting that a single study (or even a 
set of studies) does not usually permit sweeping 
conclusions about the human condition, espe- 
cially because the scientific rules of inference 
require caution and parsimony. Yet the re- 
searcher in our example is sometimes correct in 
the belief that the empirical finding reflects an 
important general principle---even if the editor 
is correct in objecting that the finding fails to 
rule out other general principles or alternative 
possibilities at that level. The likely result is 
therefore that despite many empirical studies on 
the topic, none of them can argue the broader 
principle. 
That, of course, is where the literature review 
becomes useful. Literature reviews are vital to 
the scientific field for bridging the gap in 
interpretation. Certain broad conclusions may 
indeed lie forever beyond the reach of any single 
investigation, but a literature review that exam- 
ines and integrates the results of dozens of 
studies can address them. Without literature 
reviews, the field might remain permanently 
unable to answer some of its most fascinating 
questions. 
Post Hoc Theorizing 
Graduate students in psychology are routinely 
taught the importance of delineating one's 
hypotheses in advance (i.e., prior to collecting 
data). Established researchers continue to regard 
it as questionable and possibly unethical to 
theorize after one's empirical results are known. 
There are good reasons for such insistence, even 
though many experts suspect that researchers do 
continue to refine and develop their ideas after 
the data have been analyzed. 
Prominent among these reasons is the danger 
of capitalizing on chance. Random variation 
will yield a fair number of spurious significant 
findings. If researchers were permitted to for- 
mulate their theories after completing the study, 
they would invent reasons for these chance 
findings, which would then become incorpo- 
rated into the field's body of knowledge, thereby 
polluting it with false conclusions. Requiring 
researchers to formulate hypotheses in advance 
helps protect the field against these errors. 
Such concerns do not apply to literature 
reviews, however. As a result, it would therefore 

314 
BAUMEISTER AND LEARY 
be unfortunate and misguided for literature 
reviewers to limit themselves to a priori 
hypothesizing in the way that empiricists 
should. The crucial difference is that the danger 
of capitalizing on chance, which can be quite 
serious in a single empirical study with several 
dozen variables and possibly hundreds of 
analyses, is negligible in a literature review. For 
a literature review to make such an error would 
require that dozens of studies somehow all point 
toward a wrong conclusion by statistical fluke, 
which would be highly improbable. (Other 
studies would almost certainly find the correct 
answer.) Hence it should be regarded as entirely 
permissible for a literature reviewer to formulate 
hypotheses after reading the literature. In this 
respect, assembling evidence by reading the 
literature is not the same as assembling evidence 
by collecting original data. 
Our view carries this point a step further: It is 
not only permissible but positively desirable that 
a literature reviewer theorize after assembling 
the evidence. A literature review allows one to 
take a big step up in the level of abstraction (as 
compared with the level of an empirical study). 
When one takes that step, armed with a newly 
assembled set of facts and findings, one may 
often discover that one's original ideas formu- 
lated the issue wrongly or failed to anticipate 
various questions and answers. It would be 
foolish (and costly to the scientific field) to insist 
on sticking with one's original ideas. To put this 
another way, literature reviewers can and should 
remain open to new ideas far longer than 
empirical investigators. 
Ultimately, literature reviewers have far less 
control over their evidence than empirical 
researchers because they are constrained by 
what other researchers have already done. To 
impose one's own a priori categories on that 
body of evidence may often be an act of 
procrustean rigidity that will yield misleading 
conclusions. Literature reviewers should allow 
themselves to be led by their evidence far more 
than empirical researchers dare. Failure to do so 
can cripple the capacity of a literature review to 
fulfill its scientific function. 
The Value of Null 
The pressure for positive results is another 
difference between writing literature reviews vs. 
empirical results. Authors of empirical reports 
know all too well that inconclusive or null findings 
typically doom their chances of publication. A 
single study that fails to find significant results is 
by nature ambiguous, so editors rarely publish 
such papers. Knowing this, authors of empirical 
reports often feel pressured to make the strongest 
possible case that their findings contribute a 
clear, positive, unambiguous conclusion. 
That pressure should, however, be greatly 
diminished for authors of literature reviews. Un- 
like most empirical reports, a literature review 
can make a useful contribution to the field by 
concluding that the existing data are inadequate 
to answer some question. Such assessments of 
the state of the literature help other empirical 
investigators know where to direct their efforts 
and help editors judge the novelty and impor- 
tance of future empirical findings. 
In extreme cases, literature reviews can make 
a positive contribution to the field even by 
concluding that no definitive answers can be 
drawn from the existing data, or that the null 
hypothesis cannot be rejected. In particular, 
some literature reviews tackle a set of related 
questions and may conclude that one or more of 
them remains unanswered. An empirical investi- 
gator who tested four hypotheses and learned 
nothing conclusive about one of them would 
probably be pressured to drop that one from his 
or her report. A literature review could conceiv- 
ably be most useful for its identification of 
which questions remain undecided. 
The value of a literature review that con- 
cludes that the evidence is inconclusive is 
probably most apparent when the article is in the 
problem identification category mentioned ear- 
lier. That is, one possible goal of a literature 
review is to indicate that a persistent problem or 
ambiguity renders some body of evidence less 
conclusive than is widely believed or perceived. 
In such cases, noting that the field knows less 
than it might have surmised is important. As we 
noted, such a goal is more compatible with 
briefer comments or critique articles than with 
full-size literature reviews aimed at developing 
and evaluating theory, but it nonetheless can 
serve a valuable corrective function. 
Number of Possible Conclusions 
As the previous section implies, the rules of 
inference regarding permissible conclusions 
may be quite different for empirical investiga- 

WRITING LITERATURE REVIEWS 
315 
tions as opposed to literature reviews. We 
suggest that whereas a successful empirical 
investigation permits only one type of conclu- 
sion, a successful literature review should 
permit four. 
Nearly every aspiring researcher is taught that 
empirical studies test hypotheses that yield two 
possible outcomes, only one of which is 
meaningful. Specifically, a study either rejects 
its null hypothesis (while supporting its non-null 
hypothesis) or it fails to do so, and failure to 
reject the null hypothesis is deemed inherently 
inconclusive. The positive conclusion that ac- 
companies the rejection of the null hypothesis is 
therefore the only useful conclusion an empiri- 
cal study can draw. In contrast, a literature 
review can effectively and usefully draw any of 
four types of conclusion. It seems desirable that 
literature reviewers keep these different possible 
conclusions in mind and distinguish among 
them, instead of simply using the yes-or-no 
dichotomous logic that guides empirical work. 
The first type of conclusion is the same as for 
an empirical study: The hypothesis is correct, at 
least based on the present evidence. A literature 
reviewer who finds that multiple studies provide 
converging evidence for the same conclusion is 
justified in saying that, at least given the current 
state of knowledge, the hypothesis is supported. 
Indeed, given that the literature reviewer has 
multiple studies and findings to work with, he or 
she can draw that conclusion with much more 
confidence than can the author of any single 
study. 
The second possible conclusion is that the 
hypothesis, although not proven, is currently the 
best guess and should be assumed to be true 
until contrary evidence emerges. Such a conclu- 
sion might be reached if the evidence is subject 
to various flaws and biases but points consis- 
tently to the same conclusion. If all the evidence 
is flawed, but the flaws are different, then the 
most parsimonious conclusion is that the 
hypothesis is correct. Such a conclusion must 
remain tentative, however, because it is possible 
that a convergence of artifacts produced it. 
This second type of conclusion has no 
analogue in empirical investigations, but it is 
important in literature reviews. Often one will 
finish reading a mass of literature fairly 
convinced that a hypothesis is correct but will be 
unwilling to assert that the findings provide 
definitive support for it. Logically this state of 
affairs is quite distinct from asserting either that 
the hypothesis has been unequivocally sup- 
ported or that the data are inconclusive. For 
researchers, this second conclusion entails that 
the burden of proof should at least be shifted 
onto other side of the argument, allowing the 
field to assume for the time being that the 
hypothesis is true (which it probably is). For 
practitioners and applied psychologists, such a 
conclusion is particularly valuable because they 
need the best currently available answer when a 
client or practical problem cannot wait many 
years until definitive proof may be forthcoming. 
The third possible conclusion is that one does 
not know whether the given hypothesis is true or 
false. This may arise because evidence is 
lacking, is internally consistent and contradic- 
tory, or suffers from one or two pervasive flaws 
(as opposed to widely varied flaws) that render it 
ambiguous. As already noted, such a conclusion 
is usually unpublishable in an empirical report, 
but in a literature review it can make a valuable 
contribution. 
The fourth possible conclusion is that the 
hypothesis is false. A single study with a null 
result is inconclusive, but if several dozen 
studies all fail to support a given hypothesis, 
then probably it is wrong. Contrary evidence can 
provide two distinct types of information about 
the wrongness of the hypothesis: The hypothesis 
may be wrong (as in a null-hypothesis conclu- 
sion) or the opposite of the hypothesis is correct. 
This fourth type of conclusion is especially 
important when one is dealing with a belief or 
hypothesis that has become widely accepted. It 
is after all possible that a wrong theory will 
become generally accepted in any scientific 
field, perhaps especially a field such as psychol- 
ogy in which early writers put forward impor- 
tant conclusions with little evidence and these 
have been passed down without question. A 
single empirical study providing contrary evi- 
dence will often encounter resistance to accep- 
tance for publication if it goes against prevailing 
views (and probably rightly so). A literature 
review of multiple findings may often be the 
only effective mechanism for the field to free 
itself of entrenched errors. 
Methodological Convergence 
The social and behavioral sciences address a 
daunting assortment of theoretical issues, and 

316 
BAUMEISTER AND LEARY 
they have developed a mind-boggling assort- 
ment of methods. In our view, this methodologi- 
cal diversity is a highly desirable response to a 
serious problem: By and large, none of the 
methods is perfect. The endless quest to devise 
new research methods reflects the perennial and 
valid perception that existing methods are not 
sure guides to the truth. 
If all methods are flawed, then the conclu- 
sions are limited by the flaws. Indeed, the nature 
of methodological flaws is that they permit 
alternative interpretations of the results. The 
judgment about whether to publish a given 
empirical study often boils down to how 
seriously the conclusions are impaired by these 
methodological weaknesses and flaws. 
The rule of parsimony gives the literature 
reviewer an important advantage over the 
empirical researcher, however, if the evidence 
being reviewed is methodologically diverse. 
Convergence of evidence across multiple re- 
search methods normally entails that the given 
hypothesis is the most parsimonious conclusion. 
Different flaws entail different alternative inter- 
pretations. Whereas one alternative interpreta- 
tion may be enough to undermine an empirical 
study, it may not be able to account for all the 
findings if the methods are diverse. 
Hence, literature reviewers are obligated to 
attend to the methodological diversity, and not 
just the quantity, of evidence. A hypothesis 
supported by 50 studies may in fact be shakier, 
more dubious, and simply more wrong than a 
hypothesis supported by 5 studies, if the 50 used 
the same method whereas the 5 used all different 
ones. Methodological diversity should be espe- 
cially prized by narrative literature reviewers 
because it is something they are uniquely 
positioned to recognize and use in drawing 
conclusions about the literature. 
Common Mistakes 
In this section, we discuss several common 
mistakes that authors commit when undertaking 
major reviews of the literature. These are 
mistakes that have been pointed out to one or 
both of us have at various times or that we have 
observed when we have read literature review 
manuscripts written by others. 
Inadequate Introduction 
One common error is inadequate develop- 
ment of the introduction of the manuscript. 
Authors may skimp on presenting their concep- 
tual and theoretical ideas early in a manuscript 
for many reasons. Some authors seem to think 
that the purpose of a literature review is simply 
to describe a collection of relevant findings, so 
no integrative theorizing is needed, and the 
introduction does not have any task except to 
convince the reader how important and interest- 
ing the topic is. (As we said, though, such 
reviews have little chance of being published in 
leading journals.) Other authors postpone the 
integrative theory until the discussion section 
after all the studies have been described, 
because that sequence corresponds to the 
author's own thought process as he or she 
reviewed the area--reading the evidence with 
an open mind and then drawing conclusions. 
Also, some authors may postpone their integra- 
tive "take-home message" until late in the 
manuscript because such a delay increases its 
dramatic impact. That is, they want to show 
what a hopeless mess the literature on their topic 
seemed before demonstrating how their recon- 
ceptualization can bring order to the chaos. 
Furthermore, as we said, empirical authors feel 
some obligation not to mention post hoc 
theorizing in the introduction. 
For a literature review, however, it is usually 
necessary to present a full and vigorously 
integrative theoretical framework early in a 
manuscript. Few readers can manage to wade 
through 50 pages of text and dozens of facts and 
findings before learning what the point is. And 
the simple description of findings without a 
novel theoretical contribution is typically not 
sufficient to warrant publication. 
We see two ways for authors to incorporate 
theoretical points early in a review manuscript. 
One is to present one's full theoretical conceptu- 
alization up front, using the remainder of the 
manuscript to review the literature relevant to 
the theory. Alternatively, an author might 
provide a brief "bottom-line" preview of the 
theory early, postponing its full elaboration until 
after the literature has been reviewed. Either 
approach provides readers with a sufficient 
context to make sense of the specific studies and 
findings cited in the review. 

WRITING LITERATURE REVIEWS 
317 
Inadequate Coverage of Evidence 
A surprisingly common flaw in literature 
review manuscripts, especially those that are 
rejected for publication, is inadequate coverage 
of the cited literature. This inadequacy stems 
from a basic uncertainty about how much detail 
to give. For example, some authors cover the 
literature in an unbalanced fashion, devoting 
multiple pages to a thorough description of a 
few favored studies (often their own) but 
cursory description of the rest. As journal 
reviewers, we have occasionally wanted to send 
the manuscript back and tell the author to fill in 
the missing information before we could make 
even a tentative evaluation. 
One common form of inadequacy involves 
citing a study's conclusion without describing 
the method and specific results. That is, after all, 
what many empirical articles do when citing 
literature in their introductions. Because most 
authors of literature reviews are empirical 
investigators, they may use the same style, even 
unwittingly, when they try their hand at writing 
a literature review. 
A literature review loses considerable value, 
however, if it fails to tell the reader the nature of 
the evidence it presents. "X causes Y (Refer- 
ence)" does not convey enough information, 
especially for readers who may be skeptical of 
the author's conclusions or who want to think 
for themselves. In contrast, "in a sample of A, 
method B produced result C (Reference), 
thereby supporting the view that X causes Y" is 
much more useful. It allows the reader to 
evaluate whether the conclusion fits the evi- 
dence and to understand something about the 
generality and methodological strength of that 
evidence. By neglecting to describe the nature of 
the evidence, the author of a literature review 
forces the reader to rely simply on the author's 
interpretation--"take my word for it." But the 
very purpose of a literature review is to provide 
a basis for accepting a conclusion without taking 
someone's word for it. 
To put this another way: If a particular study 
contributes something of importance to a 
literature review, the review should summarize 
the gist of the method and results sections of that 
article. This does not have to be lengthy, and in 
fact a skilled literature reviewer can often 
present the relevant aspects of a study's method 
and results in a sentence or two. But the 
evidence has to be presented at the operational 
level, not just at the abstract level of theoretical 
conclusions. 
Lack of Integration 
The previous section cited the problem of 
failing to describe the operational aspects of the 
reviewed studies. The opposite problem is 
equally destructive to the value of a literature 
review. This problem occurs when authors 
describe the procedures and observations of 
various studies but fail to relate them to the 
theoretical issues. 
All reviews, regardless of their primary goal, 
should provide an overarching conceptualiza- 
tion, perspective, or point-of-view--what Stern- 
berg (1991) called a take-home message--and 
not be content to merely recount previous ideas 
and research. The broader imperative is that 
authors of literature reviews must explain how 
the various studies fit together. A literature 
review that simply describes a series of studies 
on some topic has not accomplished enough to 
warrant publication. (Nor is it sufficient to 
postpone the integration until the general 
discussion, because most readers cannot keep all 
that information straight in their minds for that 
long.) 
A literature review is primarily an integrative 
endeavor, and integration is best accomplished 
if the reader is frequently told how the 
individual studies fit the broad theories and 
patterns. To the literature reviewer, covering all 
the relevant studies may seem like the most 
important thing, but to the reader the important 
thing is how they fit together. To be sure, the 
literature reviewer should first ensure that he or 
she has covered the research accurately and 
thoroughly. But literature reviewers should also 
ask themselves whether they have presented 
each study in a way that makes its relation to the 
integrative themes clear and explicit. 
Lack of Critical Appraisal 
In the social and behavioral sciences, all 
conclusions are limited by the weaknesses and 
flaws of the evidence, and so it is essential for 
the literature reviewer to point out and assess 
those flaws and weaknesses. Often, however, 
authors of literature reviews neglect to do this. 
There are several reasons for such neglect, but 

318 
BAUMEISTER AND LEARY 
none is good. Providing a critique of the 
evidence is an integral, even a central part of the 
job of reviewing literature. 
One reason authors neglect critique is that 
they are trying to build a case for a particular 
argument, and so they searched the literature 
and presented the results so as to make that point 
most convincingly. They should realize, how- 
ever, that overstating the case is a serious, 
unnecessary, and self-defeating error in ap- 
proach. It would enhance rather than diminish 
the value of their manuscript to indicate the 
weaknesses in the evidence. Moreover, helping 
empirical investigators see what remains to be 
done will probably increase the usefulness of 
(and future citations to) the article. 
Another reason that authors of literature 
reviews fail to provide critiques is stylistic. 
Criticizing every study could possibly double 
the length of a manuscript, in addition to making 
it very tedious to read. One solution to this 
problem is to provide critiques of groups of 
studies rather than commenting on each study 
individually. Group or section critiques are often 
useful because many studies on the same topic 
may be subject to similar flaws and criticisms. 
Ultimately, the reader of the literature review 
does not need to know every flaw in every study. 
Indeed, if one study has a flaw that is corrected 
in another study, the first study's flaw is rather 
irrelevant in the big picture. Rather, the reader 
needs to know how strong or how weak the 
overall evidence for each main point is. Group 
or section critiques accomplish this better than 
criticizing each individual study. 
Another advantage of group critiques is that 
they permit evaluation of convergence across 
diverse methods, which, as we noted, is one of 
the advantages of literature reviews. To list a 
flaw in every study may give the impression that 
all the evidence is so weak that no conclusion 
can be drawn. As we noted, however, if each 
study has a different flaw, parsimony may 
dictate that the hypothesis be tentatively ac- 
cepted. 
Hence the most useful form of critique is 
normally the following: After describing the 
methods and results of a group of studies 
relevant to some point, the author should 
indicate briefly the major flaws in the methods 
and what alternative explanations they raise. 
Next, the consistency of the findings should be 
considered. Then the author should assess the 
quantity and especially the methodological 
diversity of the evidence, keeping in mind that 
consistency across large quantities of method- 
ologically diverse evidence is the best available 
substitute for having the proverbial direct 
pipeline to the truth. Finally, the author should 
provide a summary as to how strong the 
evidence is. 
Failure to Adjust Conclusions 
We have said that conclusions should be 
tempered by the flaws and weaknesses in the 
evidence. Sometimes authors of literature re- 
views will dutifully provide a critique of the 
evidence but then present strong, sweeping 
conclusions that seem to have ignored the 
critique entirely. As in empirical papers, authors 
of literature reviews sometimes go beyond the 
data. This pattern may be particularly common 
when an editor or thesis advisor insists, after 
reading a first draft, that critique should be 
added, and so the author inserts the requested 
critique without revising the conclusions accord- 
ingly. 
Earlier, we proposed four different possible 
conclusions that a literature review can draw 
with respect to a hypothesis. It is the strength of 
the evidence that mostly decides among these 
four. The strength of the evidence encompasses 
its methodological rigor or lack thereof, the 
amount of evidence, its consistency, and its 
methodological diversity. In particular, these 
may be needed to distinguish between the two 
kinds of favorable judgments a literature review 
can make, namely whether the hypothesis is 
well established as correct vs. whether it is 
merely the best guess based on currently 
available evidence. 
Blurring Assertion and Proof 
A simpler error that is related to the failure to 
describe the nature of evidence is the failure to 
distinguish between assertion and evidence. At 
issue are statements of the sort, "women are 
smarter than men (Brown & Green, 1966)." 
Such statements leave unclear the crucial 
question of whether Brown and Green merely 
asserted that women are smarter or actually 
provided supporting evidence. In psychology, 
with its rich legacy of theoretical speculation 
based on informal observation, it is quite easy to 

WRITING LITERATURE REVIEWS 
319 
blur the distinction between citing someone who 
stated an idea and citing someone who provided 
evidence for it. 
For writers of empirical reports, this distinc- 
tion is not always important. An empirical report 
usually cites past literature merely to provide a 
context for its own evidence, which will be 
presented in detail in the method and results 
sections. In a literature review, however, the 
evidence is precisely in the presentation of past 
research, and so the nature of this evidence must 
be explained carefully and fully. Thus, for 
literature reviews, the distinction between asser- 
tion and evidence is very important. 
There is undoubtedly some scholarly obliga- 
tion to acknowledge important theoretical asser- 
tions by previous generations. Indeed, the bulk 
of the many citations to Sigmund Freud, 
William James, and dozens of others refer to 
thoughtful theoretical proposals rather than 
empirically demonstrated facts, at least by 
modern standards of empirical proof. It seems 
impractical to propose thaJ~eitations should only 
be made for empirical demonstrations. 
However, we recommend that literature re- 
viewers make a persistent effort to inform the 
reader whether a cited source proved or merely 
asserted something. "Brown and Green pro- 
posed that women are smarter than men" would 
clearly not be confused with "in a sample of 
middle-aged adults, women scored higher on a 
test of logical reasoning than men (Brown & 
Green, 1966)." Because most sources cited in a 
literature review will presumably be empirical 
reports, it seems most important to be explicit in 
pointing out whenever some source is being 
cited merely for making a speculative or 
theoretical assertion. 
Selective Review of Evidence 
Selectivity in a literature review can take 
several forms. At worst, the author may be 
operating as an "intuitive lawyer" rather than in 
a scientist mode, in the sense of trying to make a 
case for one particular position or conclusion 
(Baumeister & Newman, 1994). This could lead 
him or her to cover only material that fits that 
view and ignore the rest. The reader is therefore 
left unaware of material that would weaken or 
contradict the argument. Such an approach is at 
best unfortunate and sloppy, at worst intellectu- 
ally dishonest. 
A less bad but still unfortunate pattern is that 
of selective critique. In this pattern, the author 
covers all the relevant evidence, both supportive 
and contrary to his or her view, but then applies 
more rigorous methodological standards to the 
contrary evidence than to the supportive evi- 
dence. Such thought patterns are common 
sources of bias in everyday thinking (Kunda, 
1990; Lord, Ross, & Lepper, 1979), and 
literature reviewers are undoubtedly subject to 
them. 
Ideally, a literature reviewer should spend 
some time searching for counterexamples or 
domains of evidence that would seem to 
contradict the main conclusions and patterns. 
These can be included in the article as separate 
sections and given the same critical appraisal as 
the supporting evidence. If there are important 
exceptions to the general patterns and conclu- 
sions, the literature review is strengthened by 
acknowledging them, and theory can be built 
further by recognizing moderators and boundary 
conditions. If the exceptions are merely appar- 
ent and do not on close inspection contradict the 
main pattern, the manuscript is strengthened by 
pointing them out. Thus, either way, a literature 
review can be improved by a deliberate search 
for contrary evidence. 
Although literature reviews are less subject 
than empirical investigations to capitalizing on 
chance, they are probably more susceptible to 
the danger of confirmation bias. Many good 
literature reviews involve seeing a theoretical 
pattern or principle in multiple spheres of 
behavior and evidence, and putting together 
such a paper undoubtedly involves an aggres- 
sive search for evidence that fits the hypoth- 
esized pattern. Areas that do not pan out are easy 
to ignore or skip, but the result can be a 
misleading impression of universality. 
Focusing on the Researchers Rather Than 
the Research 
In his advice to writers of literature reviews, 
Bem (1995) proposed that names of researchers 
should always be relegated to parentheses rather 
than occupying grammatically prominent posi- 
tions in the sentences. We find this rule 
excessive and can think of instances in which 
the sentences do need to feature the names of 
researchers (e.g., "Jones found one thing, but 
Smith found the opposite"). Nonetheless, our 

320 
BAUMEISTER AND LEARY 
disagreement with Bern is merely a matter of 
degree and exception, and we concur wholeheart- 
edly with the main thrust of his argument. Good 
writing of literature reviews requires a concerted 
effort to feature the findings and ideas. Down- 
playing the names of researchers (such as by 
putting citations in parentheses) is a valuable 
stylistic device for ensuring that the article 
focuses on ideas and research rather than on 
theorists and researchers. It also helps the writer 
to avoid the appearance of making ad hominem 
arguments. As a rule of thumb, starting para- 
graphs in a literature review with the name of a 
researcher is particularly problematic, often a 
sign that the writer is simply describing one 
study after another without making a sufficient 
effort to integrate them. 
Another exception to the guidelines of 
confining names to parentheses arises when a 
previous author is being cited for asserting a 
point on theoretical grounds rather than provid- 
ing evidence. We have already insisted on the 
importance of keeping a sharp distinction 
between sources who said something and 
sources who provided evidence to support it. 
The most convenient way to highlight the 
former cases is to use precise verbs, such as 
"James asserted..." 
or 
"Johnson theo- 
rized..." or "Watson speculated..." Again, 
though, these are merely exceptions to Bem's 
rule. 
Stopping at the Present 
A final mistake of authors of literature 
reviews is to neglect to say, explicitly, what the 
implications for future research are. Usually this 
will be a subsection in the general discussion or 
other concluding section. Editors normally are 
not satisfied to publish a literature review that 
summarizes a large number of studies that are 
already published anyway, even if there are 
good theoretical conclusions and integrative 
patterns. They want a literature review to point 
out remaining unresolved issues and questions, 
if not specifically what remains to be done, as an 
aid and perhaps a stimulus to further research. 
Such recommendations may seem minor, 
trivial, or obvious to the literature reviewer, but 
they are not. They only seem that way because 
the literature reviewer is so well immersed in the 
topic. Reviewing a body of literature puts one in 
the privileged position of having a broad grasp 
that goes far beyond what almost anyone else 
(even researchers who continue to collect data 
on the topic) can achieve. Pointing out what 
remains to be studied is relatively easy from that 
privileged position, but quite difficult for almost 
anyone else. Moreover, indicating the directions 
for future research can help an article influence 
the field, both by telling researchers what they 
should study and by enabling future researchers 
to convince editors that their work is valuable 
and important. 
Concluding Remarks 
Our position is that the narrative literature 
review occupies a special and privileged place 
in the scientific enterprise. Its opportunities, 
epistemological constraints, and stylistic needs 
differ in important ways from empirical reports. 
By appreciating these differences, individual 
researchers may become more effective consum- 
ers and more successful authors of literature 
reviews. 
References 
Baumeister, R. E, & Newman, L. S. (1994). 
Self-regulation of cognitive inference and decision 
processes. Personality and Social Psychology 
Bulletin, 20, 3-19. 
Bem, D. J. (1987). Writing the empirical journal 
article. In M. P. Zanna & J. M. Darley (Eds.), The 
compleat academic: A practical guide for the 
beginning social scientist (pp. 171-201). New 
York: Random House. 
Bern, D. J. (1995). Writing a review article for 
Psychological Bulletin. Psychological Bulletin, 
118, 172-177. 
Eagly, A. H. (1987) Sex differences in social 
behavior." A social-role interpretation. Hillsdale, 
N J: Erlbaum. 
Kunda, Z. (1990). The case for motivated reasoning. 
Psychological Bulletin, 108, 480--498. 
Lord, C. G., Ross, L., & Lepper, M. R. (1979). Biased 
assimilation and attitude polarization: The effects 
of prior theories on subsequently considered 
evidence. Journal of Personality and Social 
Psychology, 37, 2098-2109. 
Rosenthal, R. (1995). Writing meta-analytic reviews. 
Psychological Bulletin, 118, 183-191. 
Sternberg, R. J. (1991). Editorial. Psychological 
Bulletin, 109, 3-4. 
Received April 11, 1997 
Accepted April 17, 1997 • 
