 
 
 
 
Agriculture 2021, 11, 832. https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture11090832 
www.mdpi.com/journal/agriculture 
Review 
Oil Palm and Machine Learning: Reviewing One Decade of 
Ideas, Innovations, Applications, and Gaps 
Nuzhat Khan 1, Mohamad Anuar Kamaruddin 1,*, Usman Ullah Sheikh 2, Yusri Yusup 1 and  
Muhammad Paend Bakht 2 
1 School of Industrial Technology, Universiti Sains Malaysia, Penang 11800, Malaysia;  
nuzhat_khan@student.usm.my (N.K.); yusriy@usm.my (Y.Y.) 
2 School of Electrical Engineering, Universiti Teknologi Malaysia, Johor Bahru 81310, Malaysia;  
usman@fke.utm.my (U.U.S.); paend.bakht@graduate.utm.my (M.P.B.) 
* Correspondence: anuarkamaruddin@usm.my 
Abstract: Machine learning (ML) offers new technologies in the precision agriculture domain with 
its intelligent algorithms and strong computation. Oil palm is one of the rich crops that is also emerg-
ing with modern technologies to meet global sustainability standards. This article presents a com-
prehensive review of research dedicated to the application of ML in the oil palm agricultural indus-
try over the last decade (2011–2020). A systematic review was structured to answer seven prede-
fined research questions by analysing 61 papers after applying exclusion criteria. The works ana-
lysed were categorized into two main groups: (1) regression analysis used to predict fruit yield, 
harvest time, oil yield, and seasonal impacts and (2) classification techniques to classify trees, fruit, 
disease levels, canopy, and land. Based on defined research questions, investigation of the reviewed 
literature included yearly distribution and geographical distribution of articles, highly adopted algo-
rithms, input data, used features, and model performance evaluation criteria. Detailed quantitative–
qualitative investigations have revealed that ML is still underutilised for predictive analysis of oil 
palm. However, smart systems integrated with machine vision and artificial intelligence are evolving 
to reform oil palm agri-business. This article offers an opportunity to understand the significance of 
ML in the oil palm agricultural industry and provides a roadmap for future research in this domain. 
Keywords: oil palm; machine learning; systematic review; agriculture; sustainability 
 
1. Introduction 
Palm oil is a key source of edible vegetable oil extracted from fruits of the oil palm 
tree. It has emerged as an important feedstock and biofuel raw material [1,2]. Cultivated 
on millions of hectares in the world, oil palm has a noticeable part of the volume of world 
trade. The oil palm started its journey from West Africa and has become a hope for the 
economy of many countries. However, Southeast Asia is considered the hub of the palm 
oil industry, with Indonesia and Malaysia being the major exporters [3]. The growing de-
mand for the palm oil threatens the future of the rain forests because expanding oil palm 
cultivations tend to replace existing forestry. To overcome the negative impacts of oil 
palm farming by making it a key element of building a future sustainable world, plant 
science faces three major challenges. The global average palm oil yield of 3.5 tons per 
hectare should be elevated to the full yield potential around 11–18 t. The tree architecture 
must be changed to low labour intensity and high mechanization of the harvest. Oil com-
position should be tailored to the evolving demands of oleochemical, fuel industries, and, 
most importantly, food [4]. Thus the use of technology is inevitable to deal with these 
challenges through the sustainable intensification of oil palm [5]. The application of pow-
erful, intelligent ML methods has the potential to transform the current productive agri-
culture into sustainable agriculture. In precision agriculture, complex tasks such as land 
Citation: Khan, N.; Kamaruddin, M.A.; 
Sheikh, U.U.; Yusup, Y.; Bakht, M.P. 
Oil Palm and Machine Learning:  
Reviewing One Decade of Ideas,  
Innovations, Applications, and 
Gaps. Agriculture 2021, 11, 832. 
https://doi.org/10.3390/agricul-
ture11090832 
Academic Editor: Yanbo Huang 
Received: 12 July 2021 
Accepted: 25 August 2021 
Published: 31 August 2021 
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neu-
tral with regard to jurisdictional 
claims in published maps and institu-
tional affiliations. 
 
Copyright: © 2021 by the authors. Li-
censee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. 
This article is an open access article 
distributed under the terms and con-
ditions of the Creative Commons At-
tribution (CC BY) license (http://crea-
tivecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). 

Agriculture 2021, 11, 832 
2 of 25 
 
 
classification, soil management, crop selection, seasonal variations, fertilizers manage-
ment, crop yield forecasting, and yield gap analysis are effectively evolving with ML 
methods [6–9]. Because of incredible learning and high computational power, ML ap-
proaches have also been adopted in the field of oil palm for the mechanization of several 
tasks such as tree counting and plant health assessment [10,11]. However, the broader 
inspiration of modern agriculture is to examine all factors that cause gaps in crop yield. 
Agricultural productivity is subject to several stressors, including biotic and abiotic risk 
factors, many of which are intensified by a changing climate, thereby affecting durable 
sustainability. The productivity of tree crops such as oil palm is particularly complex. To 
comprehend and mitigate these risk factors, a collection of multi-layered large data sets is 
required. Additionally, advanced analytics is also critical to integrate those highly heter-
ogeneous datasets to generate insights about the key constraints on the yields at tree and 
field scales. Since yield gap analysis deals with interdependent and irregular elements, it 
becomes difficult to map their dependencies with conventional methods. Thus, ML appli-
cation is an efficient way to obtain precise outcomes and appropriate solutions for such 
convoluted problems. Previously, micro-components analysis was performed to study the 
overall yield gap by the commonly used “divide and conquer” ML strategy [12,13]. The 
studies concluded that the investigation of individual yield-reducing factors could pro-
vide insight into the overall impact. On the other hand, ML application to evaluate the 
correlation among different factors such as soil moisture and rainfall, day length and solar 
radiation, fertilization frequency, and plant growth provides better quantitative under-
standings [14–16]. The aforesaid statement necessitates bringing such research directions 
to light. In this regard, a domain-based scientifically structured review article can provide 
insightful information to new researchers based on compiled results. It enables depicting 
the state-of-the-art, highlighting the strategic matters raised by the scientific community 
and cluster analysis [17]. Researchers can identify research gaps with reference to dis-
cussed systems, concepts, and propositions. The review also helps to build a research 
roadmap with knowledge of formerly applied theories and existing techniques [18]. 
In the literature, some authors have reviewed the application of effective tools and 
ML techniques in oil palm. For instance, Chong et al. conducted a review on applications 
and practices of remote sensing for oil palm plantations monitoring [19]. Accordingly, the 
technologies developed for the processing of fruit and palm oil waste management by 
converting it to biofuel are reviewed in [20]. The application of ML for detecting nutrition 
deficits in oil palm with the help of proximal images are explored in [21]. Besides, the 
technical review of sensors and techniques for oil palm plants’ disease detection is per-
formed in [22]. Subsequently, ML features are reviewed for automatic fruit grading with 
the help of image processing [23]. Recently, Rashid et al. reviewed ML application for 
yield prediction of different crops, including oil palm [24]. From the reviewed literature, 
it is observed that present studies did not systematically search the literature in most 
cases. Moreover, only specific aspects (such as yield prediction, crop monitoring, and nu-
trient deficits, etc.) of oil palm using ML are reviewed. Although the cited works provide 
deep insight into existing studies, to date, unidimensional reviews lack a full presentation 
of the overall ML-based research in the oil palm domain. The literature search reveals that 
a broader overview of the current research trends and the extent of ML application for oil 
palm is missing. 
In need of a comprehensive analysis, this review article brings together the applica-
tion of ML in the oil palm agricultural industry. To the best knowledge of the authors, 
there is no detailed review until now that has explored multiple aspects of the oil palm 
domain within the framework of artificial intelligence (AI). The present state-of-the-art 
review synthesizes all prominent studies published throughout an entire decade (2011–
2020) concerning oil palm in the ML context. It stands out from other review studies as 
the literature search was performed through a systematic protocol to ensure unbiased data 
base retrieval. Moreover, the standard protocol was extended to perform qualitative and 

Agriculture 2021, 11, 832 
3 of 25 
 
 
quantitative assessment of the searched literature. This technique allows detailed and im-
partial insight into contemporary studies in the domain. The goal of writing this review 
was to analyse major progress, current trends, research gaps, and pioneering concepts 
intended for stimulating research on oil palm with the application of modern techniques. 
This research was envisaged to produce high-quality recommendations for novice re-
searchers based on a scrupulous evaluation of the available works. 
The remaining article is organized as follows. Section 2 provides the background of 
oil palm and ML. Section 3 explains the review scope and the proposed methodology. It 
provides the step-by-step procedure followed during the design and implementation 
phase. Accordingly, results are demonstrated in Section 4, while detailed discussion is 
presented in Section 5. Finally, Section 6 concludes the article. 
2. Background of Oil Palm and Machine Learning 
The Elaeis guineensis, commonly known as oil palm, is a single-stemmed branchless 
tree, which takes several years of investment and labour work before producing harvest-
able oil containing fresh fruit bunch (FFB) [25]. Two different kinds of vegetable oils are 
produced from oil palm fruit at first, namely, crude palm oil (CPO) and palm kernel oil. 
CPO is extracted from the pulp (mesocarp) of fruit, while its seeds provide palm kernel 
oil. Average annual raw crop production remains 12–18 tons h−1 in industrial oil palm 
under favourable conditions [26]. Besides its profitability and high production, some com-
plex characteristics distinguish it from other crops. Unlike annual, biennial, and perennial 
crops, the oil palms are permanent plants [27] harvested twice a month throughout the 
plant’s lifespan (except the initial growing period) [28,29]. Although some seasonal vari-
ations exist in oil palm yield, this divergence is limited to production capacity [30]. The 
seasonal impacts are considered a noticeable factor in contributing to yield decline. Some 
additional yield-reducing factors are fertilizers’ limitations, irrigation limitations, pests, 
and infections. Careful regular analysis for disease assessment, fertilization, and timely 
harvesting contributes to high oil palm yield. Conversely, inappropriate field manage-
ment and incorrect harvesting strategies restrict the oil quality and quantity [31]. Besides 
all efforts to enhance oil palm crop production, the yield-reducing factors influence the 
outcomes significantly. However, the factors mentioned above are variable and interde-
pendent but are not unpredictable. Indeed, these sensitive issues are associated with some 
complicated parameters. As for fertilizer, its type, adequate quantity, and application fre-
quency require precise optimization. At the same time, the estimation of harvesting time 
[32] is achieved with predictive analysis. Similarly, during disease assessment, healthy 
and unhealthy plants are classified. A decisive solution to such a complex problem is ren-
dered in machine learning algorithms (MLAs) that perform prediction, classification, clus-
tering, and optimization. Depending on research requirements, an ML model can be pre-
dictive or/and descriptive. A predictive model is used to forecast what is likely to happen 
in the future. On the other hand, a descriptive model gathers knowledge from the col-
lected data to describe what happened in the past [33]. For solving the problems at hand, 
selection of the right algorithms is the key. Moreover, the utilized tools and chosen algo-
rithms need to have the capability of handling bulk data. Aided by such intelligent algo-
rithms, well-calculated field management strategies can boost the revenue through en-
hanced yield and optimized expenses. In addition, the oil palm as a profitable crop also 
needs technology-oriented tools (to reduce labour costs) and cerebral systems (to avoid 
the risk of human error) for decision-making. 
3. Review Scope and Methodology  
This work reviews the existing studies that apply different ML techniques to serve 
the oil palm agricultural industry from a problem-solving perspective. The proposed ML 
methods are explored while emphasizing recent research trends. We do not intend to crit-
icize previous contributions; moreover, it is not a comparative analysis to support any 
specific research work or algorithm. To the best knowledge of the authors, barely any 

Agriculture 2021, 11, 832 
4 of 25 
 
 
attempt could be discovered in the existing literature that reviews “application of MLAs 
in the field of oil palm” as a special case because research on oil palm is limited. Such a 
dearth can be acknowledged as a relatively novel, yet promising, application field. More-
over, this review only considers MLAs that offer enhanced estimates rather than optimi-
zation algorithms taking a long time for finding global optima. In addition, it does not 
consider supplementary research on the advantages/disadvantages of oil palm consump-
tion as well as field management strategies that sustain without ML. Those topics are not 
in the scope and do not fit the level of its specified target. 
For this review, the methodology was based on a systematic literature review ap-
proach to perform a hybrid qualitative–quantitative analysis. The motivation for using the 
consolidated analysis was to provide a better understanding of the results by weighing 
the pros and cons of both techniques [34,35]. This method is susceptible to minimize bias, 
enhance transparency, and preserve flexibility [35,36]. In this study, we organized our 
empirical outcomes and answers to the “research questions” that are a central part of this 
research protocol. Moreover, a dual phased systematic method is proposed where each 
phase comprises five major sections as sub-steps. The procedure is described in Figure 1. 
 
Figure 1. Dual-phase systematic review procedure. The procedures followed at the first stage are 
part of the design phase. 
3.1. Design Phase 
3.1.1. Review Topic Selection 
To conduct this review, first of all, a domain-specific less intact research topic was 
carefully chosen after a deep study of existing literature related to latent advancement in 
oil palm with the help of ML. In the quest of exploring the studies that have been pub-
lished in the domain of oil palm and ML, this review topic is appropriate to analyse sev-
eral dimensions.  
3.1.2. Defining Search String 
The basic searching was done by an automated search. The starting input for the 
search was “oil palm” AND “machine learning.” Articles were retrieved, and abstracts 
were read to find the synonyms of the keywords. The search input was used to obtain a 
broad view of the studies. From the basic search experiment, a more complex search string 
was built in order to avoid missing relevant studies. The final search string was as follows: 
(“machine AND learning” OR “deep AND learning” OR “artificial AND intelligence”) 
AND (“oil AND palm” OR “Elaeis AND guineensis”). After executing iterated combina-
tions of defined search strings in five databases, 1060 studies were retrieved through ad-
vance search with the title, abstract, and keywords. The “anywhere” option in Google 
Scholar and Springer Link was selected. Inserted keywords included “oil palm,” “Elaeis 
guineensis,” “machine learning,” “deep learning,” and “artificial intelligence” as search 

Agriculture 2021, 11, 832 
5 of 25 
 
 
strings according to the procedures defined in [37] with the AND keyword for the exact 
combination of two strings and OR for flexible searches. The initial search was performed 
based on the title, abstract, and keywords; however, the full text was considered for final 
selection, categorization, and information extraction. 
3.1.3. Defining Review Scope and Boundary 
The available literature on the topic was collected within a unique range of ten years. 
Only technical papers that propose the application of any MLA to explore oil palm were 
considered. On the other hand, all the articles that did not apply ML for agricultural oil 
palm as a special case were discarded. This was done to narrow down the search because 
applications of ML occur in numerous fields that do not serve our domain-specific inves-
tigation. For instance, a study was not included if it investigated public opinion (consumer 
perception) on the impacts of palm oil using ML methods [38].  
3.1.4. Defining Exclusion Criteria 
To incorporate only relevant publications, several exclusion criteria were defined to 
set boundaries for the review. In the systematic procedure of article selection, seven ex-
clusion principles were followed to filter the database as described below. 
• 
Exclusion Principle 1—publication that is not related to the agricultural/industrial 
sector of oil palm with ML application. 
• 
Exclusion Principle 2—publication is written in any language other than English. 
• 
Exclusion Principle 3—publication is already retrieved/is a duplicate. 
• 
Exclusion Principle 4—full text/abstract of the publication is unavailable. 
• 
Exclusion Principle 5—publications that are survey/review articles reviewing old 
publications. 
• 
Exclusion Principle 6—work that is published before 2011. 
• 
Exclusion Principle 7—publication is published after 2020. 
3.1.5. Research Questions 
The review objective was based on seven research questions (Qs). 
• 
Q1—what is the annual rate of publications that apply machine learning to oil palm? 
• 
Q2—what are research trends in this domain? 
• 
Q3—which MLAs have been highly used during the previous ten years to serve oil 
palm? 
• 
Q4—which countries are actively involved in research on the application of machine 
learning in oil palm? 
• 
Q5—what datasets/sources are used to investigate oil palm with machine learning? 
• 
Q6—what are the key input features preferred by researchers? 
• 
Q7—how are applied algorithms/ models evaluated to guarantee the significance and 
rationality of the outcomes? 
3.2. Implementation Phase 
This section covers the procedures to acquire relevant literature. Primarily, the arti-
cles that contained standalone or hybrid ML models integrated with other methods, pre-
cisely applied on oil palm, were searched. The choice of articles included literature with 
macro-level (country or state), meso-level (entire plantation), and micro-level (tree or part 
of tree) oil palm assessment with multidimensional application of statistical, ML, or deep 
learning (DL) algorithms.  
3.2.1. Article Collection 
The article collection phase was inaugurated after streaming through the entire set of 
exclusion criteria. The candidate publications were identified and stored in a distinct da-
tabase. Initially, we retrieved articles from different sources, including Scopus, Science 

Agriculture 2021, 11, 832 
6 of 25 
 
 
Direct, Springer Link, Web of Science, and Google Scholar. To limit the literature search, 
a date filter was applied to extract articles within the defined period.  
3.2.2. Initial Analysis 
From the available database, the most significant and relevant literature was ex-
tracted after full-text reading to finalize the candidate list. Consequently, the number of 
remaining publications was reduced to 61, and we decided to analyse all the publications 
further regardless of the impact factor and the number of citations. Figure 2 describes the 
adopted PRISMA protocol [39]. 
 
Figure 2. Diagram of PRISMA flow. 
3.2.3. Articles Categorization 
The articles categorization phase divides the entire database into two main groups: 
classification and regression. The grouping is performed based on analysis type instead 
of technical classification. Both groups are further divided into different subcategories 
considering the prime research objective(s) according to the strategy stated in [40]. It 
should be noted that some works containing multiple research objectives are included in 
more than one class; however, they were counted only once to avoid miscalculations.  
3.2.4. Detailed Review 
This step includes a survey of literature to be reviewed for answering the research 
questions. All articles were deeply examined on an individual level for information ex-
traction as well as to obtain unified statistics of the entire database.  
3.2.5. Information Extraction and Reporting 
Referring to Q1, the annual distribution of extracted literature was examined. Ac-
cordingly, the scope and objectives of the study were considered regarding Q2. Subse-
quently, a detailed analysis of the methodology stated in the reviewed articles was per-
formed to extract statistics of applied MLAs vis-à-vis Q3. Afterwards, the affiliations of 
authors and all co-authors responded to the fourth research question (Q4). Further study 
of materials and methods along with results was performed in order to discover the input 

Agriculture 2021, 11, 832 
7 of 25 
 
 
data, key input features, and performance evaluation techniques to comply with Q5, Q6, 
and Q7, respectively. 
4. Results 
This section presents the outcomes of the proposed methodology described in the 
preceding section. The findings portray yearly trends of publishing articles in the dis-
cussed domain, the main problems and researchers’ objectives, the adopted algorithms, 
the geographical information, the data sources, and the model performance evaluation 
methods. Regarding the annual distribution of published work, trends indicate that a 
higher number of research articles were published during the years 2014, 2016, 2018 and 
2019, while, in the year 2015, the number of articles dropped too low. The yearly distribu-
tion of research publications is demonstrated in Figure 3. This outcome responds to the 
first research question (Q1).  
 
Figure 3. Annual distribution of reviewed articles. 
The outcomes addressing Q2 provide further insight into the current research trends 
in the application domain. The results suggest that approximately 84% of work in the lit-
erature was dedicated to classification techniques, while the remaining 16% of work was 
focused on regression analysis for forecasting. The important research objectives in the 
classification category were tree/land detection, fruit classification, disease detection, mul-
tipurpose classification, and canopy monitoring with unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV). 
Among the preceding subcategories, one class, namely, multipurpose classification con-
tained some articles with diverse (miscellaneous) objectives. On the other hand, various 
objectives performed under regression analysis included the prediction of harvest time, 
fruit yield, oil yield, palm oil prices, and seasonal impacts on production. The main cate-
gories and the subcategories with approximate proportions are presented in Figure 4. 

Agriculture 2021, 11, 832 
8 of 25 
 
 
 
Figure 4. Articles categories and objective-based distribution.  
Further assessment of the reviewed database was performed to find out highly used 
MLAs (referring to Q3). In the overall literature, support vector machine (SVM) was the 
highest applied algorithm followed by artificial neural network (ANN), random forest 
(RF), regression, classification and regression tree (CART), and convolutional neural net-
work (CNN), respectively. The most popular MLAs and their usage frequency in question 
under discussion are presented in Figure 5. 
 
Figure 5. Highly adopted MLAs. 
To address Q4, we extracted the authors’ affiliations to achieve the geographical dis-
tribution of the reviewed publications. All authors and co-authors were assumed to rep-
resent the country mentioned in the author’s profile. The contribution of researchers from 
all countries as per the number of publications is presented in Figure 6. 

Agriculture 2021, 11, 832 
9 of 25 
 
 
 
Figure 6. Geographical distribution of reviewed articles. 
To address the fifth research question (Q5), articles were dug to explore the data 
sources and utilized data sets contingent upon explicitly stated data sources. This investi-
gation was in support of researchers and practitioners to obtain information on data avail-
ability because the performance of ML models highly depends on the quality and appro-
priate quantity of the input data. It was discovered that multiple sources providing satel-
lite images were mentioned and that field-specific self-collected data is widely used. Fig-
ure 7 demonstrates the approximate proportion of sources and data sets in the reviewed 
literature. The miscellaneous category contains multiple datasets for the range of param-
eters that were not distributable among other subcategories. 
 
Figure 7. Datasets/sources mentioned in the articles. 
The response to Q6 describes the input features used by the researchers. The infor-
mation is beneficial for feature extraction to develop effective and efficient models. We 
combined all input variables against each relevant category. For better understanding, the 
results are tabularized, as can be seen in Table 1.  
 
 

Agriculture 2021, 11, 832 
10 of 25 
 
 
Table 1. Input features. 
Papers Category 
Input Features 
Multipurpose 
classification 
Tree crowns and categorical features; thermal images; quantitative 
features; climatological features; ratios of kernel to fruit; shell to bunch; 
shell to fruit; fruit to bunch; messocarp to fruit; oil to dry messocarp, and 
oil per palm; chlorophyll-sensitive wavelengths; FFB colours; electrical 
properties of leaves; and levels of potassium (K), nitrogen (N), 
phosphorus (P), magnesium (Mg), and calcium (Ca) 
Disease detection 
Tree crown size and categorical features, spectral reflectance, and leaves 
and stem colours 
Prediction/estimation 
Fruit age, plant life, age factor, normalized difference vegetation index 
(NDVI) average value, daily CPO prices, monthly closing prices of oils, oil 
palm production, benefits, plant scale index, sex determination, 
inflorescence abortion, foliar nutrient composition, FFB yield, growth, 
respiration, and meteorological variables 
Land cover/tree 
detection 
Positive/negative histogram of oriented gradients (HOG), crown size, 
images of oil palm, built-up, bare land, water, forest 
FFB Analysis 
Flavonoid, anthocyanin content, fruit colour, fruit size, hue, saturation, 
intensity, contour lines, blue-to-red fluorescence ratio (BRR_FRF) 
UAV for canopy 
monitoring 
Tree crown, stems length, tree colours, crown size, bare land, water 
Q7 was addressed by analysing models’ performance evaluation parameters statis-
tics. The ranking of evaluation parameters based on usage frequency in the reviewed lit-
erature is shown in Figure 8. 
 
Figure 8. Most frequent evaluation parameters. 
All above results provided insights into statistics of the literature on ML and oil palm 
to encounter our seven defined research questions. The specified qualitative review of 
individual articles from the subcategories can be extracted from Tables 2–7, and the brief 
precedent description of important studies is provided prior to each table.  
 
 

Agriculture 2021, 11, 832 
11 of 25 
 
 
4.1. Multipurpose Classification  
Some articles were added to multipurpose classification due to unique objectives. 
Articles in this category are the works that have conducted the technical research predom-
inantly focused on classifier’s performance. One of the studies included in this group ex-
plains the results of various marker systems and modelling procedures for the implemen-
tation of genome selection (GS) in the introgressive hybridization of the dura family. The 
discussed dura family “Deli x Nigerian,” the resultant of a “Deli dura x Nigerian dura,” 
was considered in the analysis [41]. The observed family is a valuable source of new palm 
trees with higher oil yields and improved bunch characteristics. The work in [42] pro-
posed Jenks natural breaks (JNB) for the classification of chlorophyll sufficiency levels and 
relative chlorophyll content. The best subset of frond number, chlorophyll-sensitive wave-
lengths, and the classifier to categorize the chlorophylls according to the nominated suf-
ficiency levels were suggested using a hyperspectral remote sensing platform. Corre-
spondingly, the use of hyperspectral sensing combined with imbalance approaches and 
MLAs to track the nutrients levels of mature oil palm is highlighted in [43]. Hyperspectral 
spectroscopy has emerged as a promising alternative to conventional foliar analysis in 
assessing the nutritional status of oil palms, as the former one is costly and time-consum-
ing. Details about classification techniques used in the oil palm field are provided in five 
different tables. Table 2 contains literature on multipurpose classification techniques ap-
plied to examine oil palm.  
Table 2. Multipurpose classification. 
Articles 
Dataset 
Model/Algorithm(s) 
Objective 
[44] 
Thermal and 
meteorological dataset, 
labeled images of area of 
interest (AOI) 
RF, K nearest neighbour (KNN), 
SVM 
Classification of female 
inflorescences’ anthesis stages 
in oil palm 
[41] 
Average phenotype 
Ridge regression-best linear 
unbiased prediction 
(RR_BLUP), Bayes A, Bayes B, 
Cπ, SVM, ridge regression (RR), 
RF, least absolute shrinkage and 
selection operator (LASSO) 
Evaluation of marker systems 
and methods for genomic 
selection of oil palm 
[42] 
Tree images, leaf spectral 
reflectance, and fertilizers’ 
application experiments 
Decision tree (DT), RF 
Calculation of chlorophyll 
sufficiency levels in mature 
palm using hyperspectral 
remote sensing 
[43] 
Leaf samples, nutrients 
Logistic model tree (LMT), 
naïve Bayes (NB), synthetic 
minority over-sampling 
technique (SMOTE), adaptive 
boosting (AdaBoost) 
Oil palm’s macronutrients 
classification 
[45] 
FFB samples 
CART 
Fruit ripeness identification 
[46] 
Laboratory measurements 
ANN, linear model (LM), 
gradient descent algorithm 
(GDA) 
Modelling of dielectric 
properties of oil palm fruitlets 
4.2. Disease Detection 
Diseases in oil palm are a major threat to global food supply and security. Timely 
detection of infected trees is a difficult task due to the lack of appropriate monitoring re-
sources for plants health assessment. Basal stem rot (BSR) is a common plant disease in-
stigated by the Ganoderma boninense (G. boninense) fungus, which passes on the infec-
tion to oil palm plantations and causes a significant economic loss. In need of novel disease 
detection techniques in order to reduce oil palm losses caused by BSR, images along with 

Agriculture 2021, 11, 832 
12 of 25 
 
 
field observations are utilized to perform classifications of infected oil palm estate through 
different ML algorithms in [47]. The purpose of this study was to use WorldView-3 im-
agery to predict disease severity using supervised learning algorithms, as well as to iden-
tify the typical indicators of BSR disease in oil palm at various levels of infection severity. 
Infection levels are classified from mild to severe using three different classes with the 
help of various classification algorithms. Similarly, Khaled et al. considered the impacts 
of BSR by classifying the healthy and unhealthy leaves from collected samples [48]. The 
feasibility of using electrical properties, namely, impedance, capacitance, dielectric con-
stant, and dissipation factor, for rapid detection of the BSR disease in oil palm trees was 
explored. The detailed analysis was performed using five different MLAs, of which three 
models were exploited for features selection and two performed classification. Neverthe-
less, early identification of G. boninense infection is the technique for controlling BSR be-
cause contemporary methods do not guarantee complete recovery after severe infection. 
The key goal of a different study was to examine how well ML models can detect BSR 
infection in oil-palm-cultivated areas. The BSR disease distribution map was also created 
through MLA combined with remote-sensing techniques [11]. The rotten bunch disease 
was detected in [49]. Another study found that healthy trees can be differentiated from 
BSR-infected trees through intelligent algorithms even in early-stage with less visible 
symptoms [50]. Table 3 includes itemized material from specific articles that performed 
classification for the purpose of disease detection in oil palm plantations. 
Table 3. Disease detection. 
Articles 
Dataset 
Model/Algorithm(s) 
Objective(s) 
[11] 
Quickbird imagery 
SVM, RF, CART 
Modelling of basal stem 
rot disease 
[50] 
Weather data, infected trees 
test, spectral reflectance data, 
detached leaflets from fronds 
ANN 
Early detection of 
ganoderma basal stem rot 
[48] 
Impedance, capacitance, 
dielectric constant, and 
dissipation factor in infected 
trees 
SVM, RF, and genetic 
algorithm (GA) (for features 
selection), ANN, SVM for 
classification 
Spectral features selection 
and classification of 
infected oil palm leaves 
from BSR disease 
[49] 
Disease, symptoms, treatment 
NB 
The diagnosis of disease in 
oil palm 
[47] 
Worldview-3 imagery, real 
time field imagery 
DT, RF, SVM 
Severity of BSR in oil palm 
farms 
4.3. UAV for Canopy Monitoring 
The concept of UAV for crop monitoring is not quite new in modern agricultural 
practices. Aerial colour and colour-infrared imaging have been used to track crop growth 
for more than 50 years. These methods are currently being re-evaluated for analysis in 
precision agriculture. UAVs are becoming more popular due to their low cost and ability 
to fly on low altitudes, which increases the spatial resolution [51]. The aerial imagery can 
be acquired rapidly during crucial periods of crop development. For oil palm field moni-
toring through UAV and classification of crop segments based on resulting images, linear 
regression was performed in [52]. Similarly, [53–56] collected images of oil palm from 
UAV for counting or detection of oil palm trees by applying different ML techniques. The 
articles that suggest automated oil palm canopy monitoring using UAV are included in 
Table 4 as an imperative part of this review. 
 
 

Agriculture 2021, 11, 832 
13 of 25 
 
 
Table 4. Automated canopy segmentation/crop monitoring using UAV. 
Articles 
Dataset 
Model/Algorithm(s) 
Objective(s) 
[52] 
Images of 2-, 4-, and 
7-year-old trees 
Linear regression (LR) 
Automatic canopy segmentation 
[53] 
Plantation images 
Visual geomatry group-single 
shot detector (VGG-SSD), 
faster-RCNN, YOLO-V3, 
Retina-net, Mobilenet-SSD 
Fast and robust detection of oil 
palm 
[54] 
Oil palm images 
Histogram of oriented 
gradients (HOG-SVM), SVM Detecting Individual oil palm tree 
[55] 
Oil palm images 
SVM 
Counting oil palm inventory 
[56] 
Oil palm images 
CNN 
Oil palm tree detection 
4.4. Prediction/Estimation 
There is a plentiful scope for research on forecasting methods to support in many 
phases during oil palm cultivation’s lifecycle. The studies stated that the current issue in 
agricultural oil palm is the high difference between potential and actual yields. However, 
the broad application of multidisciplinary ML methods can overcome this issue. Many 
factors influence crop yield, including crop genotype, environment, and management 
strategies. Year-to-year and location-to-location differences in crop yield are greatly influ-
enced by changing environments, both spatially and temporally. Accurate harvesting 
time, seeds’ sowing time, irrigation requirements, price prediction, and yield estimation 
is extremely beneficial to the production of global food under such circumstances. Deci-
sions on appropriate import and export can be made on the basis of reliable forecasts [57]. 
In order to implement an appropriate harvesting strategy, oil palm harvest time is pre-
dicted based on fruit growth and ripeness level with regression analysis [58]. An oil palm 
prediction model to estimate production from cultivated area images and tree age estima-
tion is proposed in [59]. Forthcoming CPO prices are predicted in [60,61] based on histor-
ical trends in CPO prices. The performances of two regression models trained from his-
torical data of oil palm production are compared to predict future production in [62]. At 
the same time, a simple prediction model has been proposed to simulate the impacts of 
the environment on variance in the inflorescences and the number of harvested bunches 
[63]. Similarly, another study introduced a standard simulation model to predict the 
growth of oil palm trees and the potential yield [64]. The impacts of foliar nutrients’ com-
positions have been analysed to model and predict the oil palm yield of Malaysia, inclu-
sive of historical trends in FFB yield [65]. Likewise, annual oil palm yield is predicted, and 
climate impacts are explored, in [66]. Finally, small-scale oil palm yield has been predicted 
with the help of historical yield data and multiple environmental factors [67]. The above-
discussed literature is part of Table 5. 
Table 5. Prediction/estimation. 
Articles 
Dataset 
Model/Algorithm(s) 
Objective(s) 
[58] 
Field aata, FFB samples 
Discriminant analysis (DA), 
polynomial regression (PR) 
Identifying ripeness and 
forecasting harvest time of 
oil palm 
[59] 
SPOT6 imagery 
ANN, linear regression 
Estimation of the amount of 
oil palm production 
[60] 
CPO historical prices 
ANN, autoregressive fractional 
integral moving average 
(ARFIMA), adaptive neuro-fuzzy 
inference system (ANFIS) 
Forecasting on crude palm 
oil prices 
[61] 
CPO historical prices 
SVR, holt winter exponential 
smoothing 
Multivariate time series 
forecasting of crude palm oil 
price 

Agriculture 2021, 11, 832 
14 of 25 
 
 
[62] 
Time series data 
Support vactor regression (SVR), 
ANN 
Prediction of oil palm 
production 
[63] 
Crop characteristics, 
climatic data  
ECOPALM 
Prediction of seasonal 
variations in FFB production 
[65] 
FFB yield—the foliar 
nutrient composition 
ANN 
Modelling Malaysian oil 
palm yield 
[64] 
Description of water, 
solar radiation, and 
nutrients 
PALMSIM 
Simulating potential growth 
and yield of oil palm 
[67] 
Soil fertility, water, 
weather, and historical 
FFB yield 
Bayesian network 
Predicting future FFB yield 
[68] 
Region of interest (ROI) 
images, rule-based 
expert opinion 
Rule-based expert system (RBES), 
KNN, SVM, ANN 
Oil palm FFB ripeness 
prediction 
4.5. Land Cover/Tree Detection 
Oil palm is among the fastest-growing crops in terms of agricultural land use, and 
their development has been linked to substantial damage to the environment. As a result, 
this crop often appears in open and procedural discussions that are hindered or skewed 
by a lack of reliable conservational data. The shortage of consistent cultivation infor-
mation in particular has continued to be a source of concern. Recent advances in remote-
sensing data access and the ability of ML have played a remarkable role to address this 
issue. In this regard, the study in [10] has obviously contributed not only to oil palm tree 
detection, but it also incorporates ML for tree counting with adequate accuracy. Tree 
counting along with young and mature tree identification is carried out by Okoro et al. 
[69]. Some other studies [70–73] also performed similar work related to tree counting, age 
estimation, or tree detection but differ in study level, data sets, and algorithms. Another 
wide variety of researchers seems more concerned about oil palm area mapping, globally 
and locally, as [74,75] and many more have proposed models to monitor oil palm area 
expansion, covered land, plantation detection, patterns of land use for oil palm plantation, 
aboveground biomass, oil palm fields observation, and so on. Particulars on the above-
discussed contributions are provided in Table 6. It covers all reviewed articles implement-
ing various models to detect land cover, oil palm cultivation, or expansion. However, no 
model has been proposed to differentiate oil palm from other similar trees like date palm 
and coconut palm. This research gap may cause inaccurate classification of satellite im-
ages in case of analysing diversified cultivation on a large scale [76]. 
Table 6. Land cover/tree detection. 
Articles 
Dataset 
Model/ Algorithm(s) 
Objective(s) 
[74] 
GEE Sentinel-1,2 images 
DEEPLABV3+ CNN 
Worldwide map of oil palm 
plantations 
[75] 
GEE images 
RF 
Recording the spatial 
allocation of oil palm 
[77] 
WorldView-3 
CNN 
Detecting young and mature 
oil palm trees 
[69] 
GEE images 
SVM 
Monitoring oil palm 
cultivation monitoring 
[78] 
Images captured at site 
Viola and Jones detector 
Oil palm map 
[79] 
Calculated biomass values, 
forest type, and soil 
information 
DA, logarithmic regressions 
Estimating aboveground 
biomass in oil palm plantation 

Agriculture 2021, 11, 832 
15 of 25 
 
 
[80] 
Satellite imagery, time 
series data from MODIS, 
field data 
Moving average (MA), DT 
Detecting land cover 
conversion to oil palm 
[10] 
Remote sensor images 
CNN 
Tree detection and counting 
[81] 
Images from Kaggle  
DenseNet, DenseNet with 
saliency and semantic parsing 
(SSP) 
Industrial oil palm monitoring 
[82] 
Earth Explore images 
SVM 
Oil palm distribution 
mapping 
[70] 
QuickBird satellite images 
Faster-CNN 
Detecting oil palm trees 
[73] 
QuickBird satellite images 
TS-CNN 
Detecting oil palm trees 
[71] 
WorldView-3, LiDAR 
SVM, RF 
Oil palm tree counting and 
age estimation 
[83] 
GEE Images, shuttle radar 
topographic mission 
(SRTM), NDVI, normalized
difference water index 
(NDWI), digital elevation 
models (DEM)  
SVM, CART, RF 
Oil palm mapping 
[72] 
QuickBird imagery 
Vegitation indices, semi-
variogram computation 
Detection of oil palm trees 
[84] 
GEE images 
SVM, RF, CART 
Monitoring oil palm farms in 
Malaysia 
[85] 
Land cover map, 
WorldView-2 image, field 
data 
SVM and maximum 
likelihood classifier (MLC) 
Mapping of oil palm 
[86] 
Site-specific 
agrometeorological data 
Dempster–Shafer Inference 
Irrigation management in oil 
palm crops 
[87] 
Palm trees images 
Logistic regression 
Validation of an oil palm 
detection system 
4.6. Fresh Fruit Bunch Analysis 
Prior analysis of oil palm’s FFB based on its ripeness stage and other characteristics 
is needed for sorting and harvesting to obtain the supplementary quantity and upheld oil 
quality that is compulsory to meet international standards. Ordinarily, oil palm harvest 
time is defined by its fruit maturity stage that guarantees a high oil extraction ratio (OER) 
by avoiding over-ripe, under-ripe, or unripe fruit harvest. As FFB is the first raw product 
gathered from oil palm cultivation, its sensitivity towards the ripeness stage motivated 
too many researchers for utilizing machine vision to determine fruit age, size, quality, etc. 
that is vital to ripeness stage identification. A large portion of the reviewed literature con-
sists of methods and models for ripeness detection. The study in [45] makes a significant 
contribution by demonstrating that the blue to red fluorescence ratio-index can be used to 
evaluate the oil palm FFB maturity. Real FFB samples were observed for differentiating 
among maturity stages. On the other hand, [88] processed FFB images to perform classi-
fication for fruit maturity level identification. Using the artificial fuzzy logic and red-
green-blue (RGB) colour model, an automatic fruit grading system for oil palm was pro-
posed in [89]. The resulting grading system can differentiate among various types of oil 
palm fruits based on colour intensity to describe ripeness level. Another study used a hy-
perspectral-based method for ripeness detection of FFB [90]. Conversely, Makky et al. pro-
posed a multiclass classification method integrated with machine vision to develop a fruit 
grading machine [91]. By applying mathematical equations and regression analysis, [92] 
describes a method to estimate the maturity stage and age of oil palm FFB based on its 
location in the phyllotaxis as an added element to confirm the maturity level. Another 
straightforward model was introduced to build a tool for oil palm fruit ripeness detection 
in [93]. The method of image segmentation to discriminate the region of oil palm fruit was 

Agriculture 2021, 11, 832 
16 of 25 
 
 
proposed in [94]. To accomplish the segmentation method, Gaussian filtering has been 
developed for reducing image background noise. Likewise, an edge detection process has 
been introduced to obtain an outline of the oil palm fruit. Throughout [45,46,88–92,95–
107], it was discovered that although adopted methods, ideas, and input data varies, key 
objectives largely remained on the analysis of oil palm fruit, which can be seen in Table 7.  
Table 7. Oil palm fruit analysis. 
Articles 
Dataset 
Model/Algorithm(s) 
Objective(s) 
[93] 
FFB images 
LR, ANN, principal component 
analysis (PCA) 
Oil palm fruit grading 
[95] 
FFB images 
ANN 
FFB ripeness detection 
[96] 
FFB images 
SVM, NB 
FFB ripeness grading 
[89] 
Fuzzy logic 
Rule-based classification 
Oil palm fruit grading system 
[94] 
FFB images 
Background segmentation, 
Gaussian filtering 
Segmentation of oil palm FFB 
images 
[97] 
FFB images 
DA, ANN, PCA 
Features extraction of oil palm 
FFB 
[46] 
Laboratory 
measurements 
ANN, LM, Gaussian discriminant 
analysis (GDA) 
Modelling of dielectric properties 
of fruitlets 
[98] 
FFB, flavonoïdes, 
anthocyanines 
CART, ANN, stochastic gradient 
boosting trees (SGBT) 
Determining FFB ripeness 
[45] 
FFB samples 
CART 
Fruit ripeness identification 
[99] 
FFB images 
PCA-ANN 
FFB ripeness determination 
[100] 
FFB sample 
Oil palm fruit sensor concept 
Grading of FFB 
[101] 
Palm fruitlets 
Multi ANFIS 
Inference system for dielectric 
properties of FFB 
[45] 
FFB samples 
CART 
FFB ripeness detection 
[88] 
FFB images 
ANN 
FFB ripeness detection 
[102] 
FFB images 
Back propagation, learning 
vector quantization 
FFB ripeness determination 
[90] 
FFB images 
ANN 
Fruit grading 
[103] 
FFB images 
K mean clustering 
FFB growth determination 
system 
[104] 
Field data 
Unified modeling language 
(UML diagram) 
Fruit grading 
[105] 
FFB images 
SVM, ANN, ALEXNET 
Fruit ripeness grading 
[106] 
FFB images 
ANN, KNN, SVM 
FFB ripeness grading 
[92] 
FFB acceptance 
rules, images 
Mathematical regression 
Grading machine for oil palm 
FFB 
[107] 
FFB age, maturity, 
spiral leaf images 
Mathematical equations 
FFB maturity stages 
determination 
[68] 
Region of interest 
(ROI) images, rule-
based expert 
opinion 
Rule-based expert system (RBES), 
KNN, SVM, ANN 
FFB ripeness determination 
5. Discussion 
5.1. Results-Based Discussion 
This subsection provides the discussion of obtained results referred to in the preced-
ing section. As observed, the annual number of published articles is progressive but lacks 
variety in objectives. Around 33% of the research focused on fruit classification methods. 
Mainly, the authors performed FFB analysis for fruit ripeness detection, which is crucial 
to estimate harvesting time. In most of these studies, the images of FFB and real oil palm 

Agriculture 2021, 11, 832 
17 of 25 
 
 
fruit samples were collected to detect differences among four ripeness stages, namely un-
ripe, under-ripe, ripe, and overripe fruit. However, due to some common features be-
tween consecutive stages, ripeness identification becomes difficult with conventional clas-
sification approaches. Some authors also proposed useful features for image processing 
and oil palm fruit classification. In the category of work carried for health assessment, 
namely, the disease detection group, several MLAs were applied. Although 7% of the re-
search revolved around the detection of disease and infection in oil palm, the amount of 
work done was insufficient considering the importance of the problem. Similarly, another 
7% of research was dedicated to canopy monitoring using UAV, while the multipurpose 
classification group with various assorted objectives also constituted 7% of the total num-
ber of reviewed articles.  
Another noticeable trend according to objectives in reviewed works was land and 
trees observation, which contributed to 30% of the reviewed literature. The impetus to use 
ML for this purpose was derived from two dominant needs. First, the difficulty in count-
ing oil palm trees manually and second is to monitor the expansion of oil palm cultivation 
as it is considered a threat to tropical forests, biodiversity, and associated ecosystems. For 
better supervision, the reviewed studies used classification techniques with remote sens-
ing and machine vision to monitor oil-palm-cultivated areas. Remote sensing integrated 
with classification models is widely applied for tree detection, tree counting, oil palm tree 
identification, and so on. Some authors preferred multiclass classification [108] techniques 
over binary classification [109] for oil palm detection.  
Apart from classification, regression analysis is also another prevailing research area. 
This category is mainly concerned with applying ML for estimation and prediction. In the 
reviewed studies, various regression models were proposed to achieve different objec-
tives of forecasting such as oil palm growth, oil quantity, FFB yield, palm oil prices, and 
seasonal variations. Although progress in forecasting with ML is praiseworthy, it is not 
satisfactory. The results of the review suggest that forecasting with ML in oil palm is still 
in its early stages, and several obstacles have to be overcome. Obviously, ML is underuti-
lized in the oil palm industry for descriptive and predictive analysis. Nonetheless, it is 
anticipated that, sooner or later, ML is likely to contribute to solving more challenging 
problems in agriculture and specifically for the field of oil palm as part of agriculture 5.0 
[110]. 
Regarding applied algorithms, deep insight into the results shows that the applica-
tion of algorithms differs in relation to the objectives in defined categories. For instance, 
for fruit classification, ANN is implemented by researchers more frequently than other 
algorithms. Being a deep learning algorithm, ANN automatically performs feature extrac-
tion. Three parameters that determine the performance of the algorithm are the number 
of layers, the number of neurons in each hidden layer, and the connections among neu-
rons. Network size optimization is vital in order to attain a viable model in terms of learn-
ing rate and computational complexity [111]. To detect symptoms of disease and infection, 
SVM and RF algorithms are preferred. The reason behind the widespread use of these 
methods is their capability to learn from small but complex data in a simple way. Accord-
ingly, ANN is the most popular algorithm for prediction, followed by linear regression 
and SVM. The ranking of algorithms is performed on the basis of usage frequency instead 
of precision. It should be noted that the high frequency of SVM does not indicate its best 
performance alone. Mainly, it is due to the appropriateness of SVM for both regression 
and classification problems and its reliability as a standard algorithm for performance 
benchmarking. 
Concerning countries involved in research on oil palm, results indicate that research-
ers from Malaysia, Indonesia, UK, the USA, Australia, China, Thailand, and the Nether-
lands are actively participating. From the literature, it was also found that some promi-
nent research and development (R&D) organizations in the world like CENIPALMA (Co-
lumbia), NIFOR (Nigeria), CIRAD (France), IOPRI (Indonesia), and MPOB (Malaysia) 
deal with multiple aspects of oil palm plantation development in their countries. FELDA 

Agriculture 2021, 11, 832 
18 of 25 
 
 
is another local government agency in Malaysia that encourages different organizations 
for agricultural research [112,113]. Current development in the global and Malaysian oil 
palm industry is a result of significant research combined with good management, a com-
patible climate, and well-established infrastructure [112]. Given one full credit to each au-
thor, statistics revealed that Malaysia is ranked number 1 for publishing approximately 
62% of the articles, followed by Indonesia with 18% of the articles of the reviewed mate-
rial. 
Investigation about data sources found that Google earth engine (GEE), QuickBird, 
Worldview3, as well as some other tools and repositories provided considerable satellite 
imagery. The vast amount of self-collected site-specific images, field samples, expert opin-
ions, and lab test results were also well utilized. The availability of satellite images is ad-
vantageous, but it is also an indication of a massive shortage of freely available quantita-
tive data for research in the oil palm field. Data unavailability is the main challenge for 
precision farming of oil palm since consistent field data collection is a time-consuming 
and challenging task. The findings reveal that data collection is progressing with several 
impediments like difficulty in quantifying yield-reducing factors and real-time data stor-
ages. A collaborative database management system (DBMS) integrated with big data and 
cloud computing is entailed where oil palm observations gathered during the entire 
lifespan of plants should be stacked by expert stakeholders since the extensive application 
of ML is restrained by the availability of gold standard datasets containing fine-grained 
qualitative and quantitative information.  
Dealing with Q7 became complex due to many validation methods. Most of the re-
searchers validated the algorithm with multiple techniques, and performance was also 
compared with other existing algorithms. Some works did not clearly mention the evalu-
ation metrics, while few did not evaluate the algorithm at all. Expert opinion and human 
graders were also declared as the model’s performance evaluation criteria in some studies. 
Based on the available information, it was found that the most popular evaluation param-
eter was overall accuracy (OA), followed by classification accuracy (CA), root mean 
squared error (RMSE), and F1-score. 
5.2. General Discussion 
Such research was inclined to risks to validity as potential threats to validity can be 
external, hypothetic validity, and consistency [114]. To address the aforementioned valid-
ity issues (i.e., external legitimacy and construct rationality), queries with broad initial 
search keywords returned a considerable number of studies. The introduced search string 
covered the entire scope of the proposed review. For the reliability of the review, the va-
lidity can be considered well addressed as the methodology of the review was well ex-
plained. It can be simulated as it is categorically replicable. If this review is replicated, 
marginally different selected publications can be returned, but the different personal judg-
ments would be the reason behind the potential differences. However, it is very unlikely 
to obtain dissimilar overall findings. 
5.3. Search-Based Discussion 
Perhaps some important publications have been intact. Different search strings could 
have been applied, and a wider search could have reverted with some different studies, 
but the satisfactory number of articles indicates that the search was broad enough to ad-
dress the research questions. The most challenging part of searching for articles was the 
inability of search engines to differentiate between “oil palm” (tree) and “palm oil” (oil), 
which caused a large number of less relevant articles. Similarly, some articles containing 
the words “palm” (part of hand), “coconut oil,” “coconut palm,” and “date palm” were 
also searched and were discarded during article exclusion. 
 
 

Agriculture 2021, 11, 832 
19 of 25 
 
 
5.4. Analysis Based Discussion  
Another potential threat to validity was the method of conducting analysis. All pub-
lications did not clearly state the information required to answer our predefined research 
questions. In addition, strict organization of articles with more than one objective or com-
pound methodology was not possible. For example, “regression for/and classification,” 
“classification for disease detection,” “FFB analysis for classification,” or “FFB analysis for 
disease detection/prediction” and “UAV for trees classification” outwardly caused dupli-
cation in the grouping. However, the overall analysis remained focused on the primary 
objective. 
5.5. Research Questions Based Discussion  
Some relevant studies published during our time range might have been missed be-
cause of different keywords. It was practically not possible to include every individual 
MLA in our search string. Deep learning and machine learning algorithms were not sep-
arated explicitly. Some of the articles were written by many authors from different coun-
tries, so the publications were calculated multiple times based on the affiliations of au-
thors during geographical distribution analysis. Similarly, applied algorithms were calcu-
lated based on the frequency of use instead of precision. Performance comparison of the 
algorithms was not considered in the results due to a variety of objectives and varied data 
sets, including some calculated parameters. SVM is ranked as the highest-used algorithm 
because of the number of studies that applied it for hybrid modelling, comparison, and 
performance evaluation of the proposed model. With respect to data sources, it was ob-
served that proper distribution of the data set used was not possible due to the wide range 
of sources and input variables. Similarly, evaluation parameters vary in different studies. 
In addition, many studies did not mention evaluation parameters clearly. Most of the 
studies used multiple evaluation parameters, which are considered just in case of being 
exceptionally mentioned in work. 
5.6. Challenges-Based Discussion  
Regarding challenges, researchers discussed general challenges in the form of re-
search motivation. Several challenges are site or data-related, while other challenges were 
faced during model implementation. We explained only some common challenges con-
fined with oil palm. Another separate technical review is planned to discuss technical 
challenges encountered during the application of different MLAs. From the current liter-
ature, the shortage of data availability for important parameters seems the reason for the 
limited performance of the proposed models. When site-specific interconnected parame-
ters are measured and included, proposed models will have better precision.  
6. Conclusions 
This study investigated existing research on the application of machine learning in 
oil palm actively carried out by researchers during the last decade (2011–2020). For better 
understanding, the reviewed articles were divided into two categories: classification and 
regression analysis. The study identified the key objectives in the classification category 
as disease detection, multipurpose classification, land cover/tree detection, fresh fruit 
bunch analysis, and automated canopy management/segmentation using UAV. In con-
trast, the regression analysis included the prediction of FFB yield, CPO prices, harvest 
time, and seasonal impacts on oil palm. It was evident from the results that the research 
was mainly focused on land cover/tree detection and oil palm plantation area observation. 
The other preferred research direction was fresh fruit bunch ripeness identification. Sur-
prisingly, predictive models for fruit yield, oil production, plant growth, and disease fore-
casting have not been widely applied. The results clearly show that the highly applied 
algorithm was SVM followed by ANN, RF, regression, and CART. A deeper analysis in-

Agriculture 2021, 11, 832 
20 of 25 
 
 
dicated the scarcity of available data in the field. Most of the data used for oil palm re-
search was in the form of images collected from different satellite or remote-sensing 
sources. Due to the limited involvement of researchers from a small number of countries, 
several important research dimensions were missing, such as soil classification to identify 
suitable land, automated pest and weed recognition, identifying the symptoms of sun-
light, nutrients and water limitations in oil palm crop, optimization of fertilizers, seed as-
sessment, and so on. Most importantly, the research trends in the literature showed that 
existing MLAs and techniques were not adequately coupled together to support effective 
decision-making systems as compared to several other domains of ML applications. Cur-
rent research is too inadequate to design practically supportive tools that are capable of 
increasing yields and improving quality and plantation sustainability in an environmen-
tally friendly way. Integrated ML practices such as big data, remote sensing, data analyt-
ics, image-processing, and automated information extraction are progressing to achieve 
knowledge-based oil palm agriculture. This study provided a vivid idea to understand 
the advancement of oil palm associated with machine learning and can inspire researchers 
to find out the relevant problems in this area. Different outcomes of this study magnify 
the current research on “oil palm and machine learning” from various perspectives. We 
believe this article will pave the way to the development of oil palm with the help of au-
tomation and intelligence. 
To improve the research, future work should focus on a technical review to analyse 
the performance of ML models applied in the oil palm agriculture domain. 
Funding: This work was funded by the School of Industrial Technology, Universiti Sains Malaysia, 
under Grant 203.PTEKIND.6777007. 
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest. 
Nomenclatures 
General abbreviations 
Abbreviations for machine learning models 
ML 
Machine learning 
LM 
Linear model 
DL 
Deep learning 
VGG-SSD Visual geometry group-single shot detector 
MLA 
Machine learning algorithm 
HOG 
Histogram of oriented gradients 
AI 
Artificial ontelligence 
LMT 
Logistic model tree 
RGB 
Red-green-blue 
ARFIMA Autoregressive fractional integral moving 
average 
CPO 
Crude palm oil 
ANFIS 
Adaptive neuro-fuzzy inference system 
FFB 
Fresh fruit bunch 
SGBT 
Stochastic gradient boosting trees (SGBT) 
RBES 
Rule-based expert system 
GANN 
Genetic algorithm neural network 
G. 
boninense Ganoderma boninense 
BLUP 
Best linear unbiased prediction 
UML 
Unified modeling language 
Abbreviations for model performance evaluation 
metrics 
SLR 
Systematic literature review 
OA 
Overall accuracy 
UAV 
Unmanned aerial vehicle 
PA 
Prediction accuracy 
GEE 
Google Earth engine 
UA 
User accuracy 
DBMS 
Data base management system CA 
Classification accuracy 
GS 
Genome selection 
RMSE 
Root mean squared error 
BSR 
Basal stem rot 
R2 
R squared (coefficient of determination) 
MAE 
Mean absolute error 
OER 
Oil extraction ratio 
DA 
Detection accuracy 
Abbreviations for machine learning techniques and algorithms 
SVM 
Support vector machine 
RR 
Ridge regression 
KNN 
K-nearest neighbor 
DT 
Decision tree 
ANN 
Artificial neural network 
MA 
Moving average 
CNN 
Convolutional neural network 
GDA 
Gradient descent algorithm 

Agriculture 2021, 11, 832 
21 of 25 
 
 
CART 
Classification and regression tree LASSO 
Least absolute shrinkage and selection 
operator 
RF 
Random forest 
NB 
Naïve Bayes 
RFT 
Random forest tree 
 
 
DA 
Discriminant analysis 
SMOTE 
Synthetic minority over-sampling technique 
LR 
Logistic regression 
AdaBoost Adaptive boosting 
DT 
Decision tree 
GA 
Genetic algorithm 
MA 
Moving average 
PR 
Polynomial regression 
GDA 
Gradient descent algorithm 
SVR 
Support vector regression 
RR 
Ridge regression 
PCA 
Principal component analysis 
GA 
Genetic algorithm 
JNB 
Jenks natural breaks 
MLC 
Maximum likelihood classifier 
GDA 
Gaussian discriminant analysis 
References 
1. 
Singh, D.; Sharma, D.; Soni, S.L.; Inda, C.S.; Sharma, S.; Sharma, P.K.; Jhalani, A. A Comprehensive Review on 1st-Generation 
Biodiesel Feedstock Palm Oil: Production, Engine Performance, and Exhaust Emissions. BioEnergy Res. 2020, 14, 1–22. 
2. 
Corley, R., How much palm oil do we need? Environ. Sci. Policy 2009, 12, 134–139. 
3. 
Ming, K.K.; Chandramohan, D. Malaysian palm oil industry at crossroads and its future direction. Oil Palm Ind. Econ. J. 2002, 2, 
10–15. 
4. 
Barcelos, E.; Rios, S.D.A.; Cunha, R.N.; Lopes, R.; Motoike, S.Y.; Babiychuk, E.; Skirycz, A.; Kushnir, S. Oil palm natural diversity 
and the potential for yield improvement. Front. Plant Sci. 2015, 6, 190. 
5. 
Kushairi, A.; Singh, R.; Ong-Abdullah, M. The oil palm industry in Malaysia: Thriving with transformative technologies. J. Oil 
Palm Res. 2017, 29, 431–439. 
6. 
Rahman, S.A.Z.; Mitra, K.C.; Islam, S.M. Soil classification using machine learning methods and crop suggestion based on soil 
series. In Proceedings of the 2018 21st International Conference of Computer and Information Technology (ICCIT), Dhaka, 
Bangladesh, 21–23 December 2018. 
7. 
Chlingaryan, A.; Sukkarieh, S.; Whelan, B. Machine learning approaches for crop yield prediction and nitrogen status estimation 
in precision agriculture: A review. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2018, 151, 61–69. 
8. 
Dimitriadis, S.; Goumopoulos, C. Applying machine learning to extract new knowledge in precision agriculture applications. 
In Proceedings of the 2008 Panhellenic Conference on Informatics, Samos, Greece, 28–30 August 2008. 
9. 
Behmann, J.; Mahlein, A.K.; Rumpf, T.; Römer, C.; Plümer, L. A review of advanced machine learning methods for the detection 
of biotic stress in precision crop protection. Precis. Agric. 2015, 16, 239–260. 
10. 
Li, W.; Fu, H.; Yu, L.; Cracknell, A. Deep learning based oil palm tree detection and counting for high-resolution remote sensing 
images. Remote Sens. 2017, 9, 22. 
11. 
Santoso, H.; Tani, H.; Wang, X. Random Forest classification model of basal stem rot disease caused by Ganoderma boninense 
in oil palm plantations. Int. J. Remote Sens. 2017, 38, 4683–4699. 
12. 
Van Dijk, M.; Morley, T.; Jongeneel, R.; van Ittersum, M.; Reidsma, P.; Ruben, R. Disentangling agronomic and economic yield 
gaps: An integrated framework and application. Agric. Syst. 2017, 154, 90–99. 
13. 
Cintra, M.E.; Meira, C.A.; Monard, M.C.; Camargo, H.A.; Rodrigues, L.H. The use of fuzzy decision trees for coffee rust warning 
in Brazilian crops. In Proceedings of the 2011 11th International Conference on Intelligent Systems Design and Applications, 
Cordoba, Spain, 22–24 November 2011. 
14. 
Fan, J.; Wu, L.; Zhang, F.; Cai, H.; Zeng, W.; Wang, X.; Zou, H. Empirical and machine learning models for predicting daily 
global solar radiation from sunshine duration: A review and case study in China. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2019, 100, 186–
212. 
15. 
Föhse, D.; Claassen, N.; Jungk, A. Phosphorus efficiency of plants. Plant Soil 1988, 110, 101–109. 
16. 
Kaiser, E.-A.; Kohrs, K.; Kücke, M.; Schnug, E.; Heinemeyer, O.; Munch, J.C. Nitrous oxide release from arable soil: Importance 
of N-fertilization, crops and temporal variation. Soil Biol. Biochem. 1998, 30, 1553–1563. 
17. 
Cogato, A.; Meggio, F.; De Antoni Migliorati, M.; Marinello, F. Extreme weather events in agriculture: A systematic review. 
Sustainability 2019, 11, 2547. 
18. 
Paul, J.; Criado, A.R. The art of writing literature review: What do we know and what do we need to know? Int. Bus. Rev. 2020, 
29, 101717. 
19. 
Chong, K.L.; Kanniah, K.D.; Pohl, C.; Tan, K.P. A review of remote sensing applications for oil palm studies. Geo-Spat. Inf. Sci. 
2017, 20, 184–200. 
20. 
Kurnia, J.C.; Jangam, S.V.; Akhtar, S.; Sasmito, A.P.; Mujumdar, A.S. Advances in biofuel production from oil palm and palm 
oil processing wastes: A review. Biofuel Res. J. 2016, 3, 332–346. 
21. 
Barbedo, J.G.A. Detection of nutrition deficiencies in plants using proximal images and machine learning: A review. Comput. 
Electron. Agric. 2019, 162, 482–492. 
22. 
Khosrokhani, M.; Khairunniza-Bejo, S.; Pradhan, B. Geospatial technologies for detection and monitoring of Ganoderma basal 
stem rot infection in oil palm plantations: A review on sensors and techniques. Geocarto Int. 2018, 33, 260–276. 

Agriculture 2021, 11, 832 
22 of 25 
 
 
23. 
Pandey, R.; Naik, S.; Marfatia, R. Image processing and machine learning for automated fruit grading system: A technical re-
view. Int. J. Comput. Appl. 2013, 81, 29–39. 
24. 
Rashid, M.; Bari, B.S.; Yusup, Y.; Kamaruddin, M.A.; Khan, N. A Comprehensive Review of Crop Yield Prediction Using Ma-
chine Learning Approaches with Special Emphasis on Palm Oil Yield Prediction. IEEE Access 2021, 9, 63406–63439. 
25. 
Uning, R.; Latif, M.T.; Othman, M.; Juneng, L.; Mohd Hanif, N.; Nadzir, M.S.M.; Maulud, K.N.A.; Jaafar, W.S.W.M.; Said, N.T.S.; 
Ahamad, F.; et al. A review of Southeast Asian oil palm and Its CO2 fluxes. Sustainability 2020, 12, 5077. 
26. 
Von Uexkull, H.; Fairhurst, T. Oil Palm; International Potash Institute: Singapore, Singapore, 1992. 
27. 
Sutherland, S. What makes a weed a weed: Life history traits of native and exotic plants in the USA. Oecologia 2004, 141, 24–39. 
28. 
Legros, S.; Mialet-Serra, I.; Caliman, J.P.; Siregar, F.A.; Clément-Vidal, A.; Fabre, D.; Dingkuhn, M. Phenology, growth and 
physiological adjustments of oil palm (Elaeis guineensis) to sink limitation induced by fruit pruning. Ann. Bot. 2009, 104, 1183–
1194. 
29. 
Ismail, A.; Mamat, M.N. The optimal age of oil palm replanting. Oil Palm Ind. Econ. J. 2002, 2, 11–18. 
30. 
Jelsma, I.; Woittiez, L.S.; Ollivier, J.; Dharmawan, A.H. Do wealthy farmers implement better agricultural practices? An assess-
ment of implementation of Good Agricultural Practices among different types of independent oil palm smallholders in Riau, 
Indonesia. Agric. Syst. 2019, 170, 63–76. 
31. 
Gérard, A.; Wollni, M.; Hölscher, D.; Irawan, B.; Sundawati, L.; Teuscher, M.; Kreft, H. Oil-palm yields in diversified plantations: 
Initial results from a biodiversity enrichment experiment in Sumatra, Indonesia. Agric. Ecosyst. Environ. 2017, 240, 253–260. 
32. 
Rhebergen, T.; Zingore, S.; Giller, K.E.; Frimpong, C.A.; Acheampong, K.; Ohipeni, F.T.; Panyin, E.K.; Zutah, V.; Fairhurst, T. 
Closing yield gaps in oil palm production systems in Ghana through Best Management Practices. Eur. J. Agron. 2020, 115, 126011. 
33. 
Alpaydin, E. Introduction to Machine Learning; The MIT Press: Cambridge, MA, USA, 2010. 
34. 
Sacchelli, S.; Fabbrizzi, S.; Menghini, S. Climate change effects and adaptation strategies in the wine sector: A quantitative liter-
ature review. Wine Econ. Policy 2016, 5, 114–126. 
35. 
Butler, A.; Hall, H.; Copnell, B. A guide to writing a qualitative systematic review protocol to enhance evidence-based practice 
in nursing and health care. Worldviews Evid.-Based Nurs. 2016, 13, 241–249. 
36. 
Fakis, A.; Hilliam, R.; Stoneley, H.; Townend, M. Quantitative analysis of qualitative information from interviews: A systematic 
literature review. J. Mix. Methods Res. 2014, 8, 139–161. 
37. 
Shamseer, L.; Moher, D.; Clarke, M.; Ghersi, D.; Liberati, A.; Petticrew, M.; Shekelle, P.; Stewart, L.A. Preferred reporting items 
for systematic review and meta-analysis protocols (PRISMA-P) 2015: Elaboration and explanation. Br. Med. J. 2015, 349, 
doi:10.1136/bmj.g7647. 
38. 
Teng, S.; Khong, K.W.; Ha, N.C. Palm oil and its environmental impacts: A big data analytics study. J. Clean. Prod. 2020, 274, 
122901. 
39. 
Moher, D.; Liberati, A.; Tetzlaff, J.; Altman, D.G.; Prisma Group. Preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-
analyses: The PRISMA statement. PLoS Med. 2009, 6, e1000097. 
40. 
Van Klompenburg, T.; Kassahun, A.; Catal, C. Crop yield prediction using machine learning: A systematic literature review. 
Comput. Electron. Agric. 2020, 177, 105709. 
41. 
Kwong, Q.B.; Teh, C.K.; Ong, A.L.; Chew, F.T.; Mayes, S.; Kulaveerasingam, H.; Tammi, M.; Yeoh, S.H.; Appleton, D.R.; 
Harikrishna, J.A. Evaluation of methods and marker Systems in Genomic Selection of oil palm (Elaeis guineensis Jacq.). BMC 
Genet. 2017, 18, 107. 
42. 
Amirruddin, A.D.; Muharam, F.M.; Ismail, M.H.; Ismail, M.F.; Tan, N.P.; Karam, D.S. Hyperspectral remote sensing for assess-
ment of chlorophyll sufficiency levels in mature oil palm (Elaeis guineensis) based on frond numbers: Analysis of decision tree 
and random forest. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2020, 169, 105221. 
43. 
Amirruddin, A.D.; Muharam, F.M.; Ismail, M.H.; Tan, N.P.; Ismail, M.F. Hyperspectral spectroscopy and imbalance data ap-
proaches for classification of oil palm’s macronutrients observed from frond 9 and 17. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2020, 178, 105768. 
44. 
DB, M.Y.; Rafie, A.M.; Abd Aziz, S.; Azrad, S.; Masri, M.M.M.; Shahi, A.; Marzuki, O.F. Classification of oil palm female inflo-
rescences anthesis stages using machine learning approaches. Inf. Process. Agric. 2020, doi:10.1016/j.inpa.2020.11.007. 
45. 
Hazir, M.H.M.; Shariff, A.R.M.; Amiruddin, M.D.; Ramli, A.R.; Saripan, M.I. Oil palm bunch ripeness classification using fluo-
rescence technique. J. Food Eng. 2012, 113, 534–540. 
46. 
Adedayo, O.O.; Isa, M.; Che, S.A.; Abbas, Z. Comparison of Feed Forward Neural Network Training Algorithms for Intelligent 
Modeling of Dielectric Properties of Oil Palm Fruitlets. Int. J. Eng. Adv. Technol. (IJEAT) 2014, 3, 38–42. 
47. 
Santoso, H.; Tani, H.; Wang, X.; Prasetyo, A.E.; Sonobe, R. Classifying the severity of basal stem rot disease in oil palm planta-
tions using WorldView-3 imagery and machine learning algorithms. Int. J. Remote Sens. 2019, 40, 7624–7646. 
48. 
Khaled, A.Y.; Abd Aziz, S.; Bejo, S.K.; Nawi, N.M.; Seman, I.A. Spectral features selection and classification of oil palm leaves 
infected by Basal stem rot (BSR) disease using dielectric spectroscopy. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2018, 144, 297–309. 
49. 
Nababan, M.; Laia, Y.; Sitanggang, D.; Sihombing, O.; Indra, E.; Siregar, S.; Purba, W.; Mancur, R. The diagnose of oil palm 
disease using Naive Bayes Method based on Expert System Technology. J. Phys. Conf. Ser. 2018, 1007, 012015. 
50. 
Ahmadi, P.; Muharam, F.M.; Ahmad, K.; Mansor, S.; Seman, I.A. Early detection of Ganoderma basal stem rot of oil palms using 
artificial neural network spectral analysis. Plant Dis. 2017, 101, 1009–1016. 
51. 
Hunt, E.R.; Hively, W.D.; Fujikawa, S.J.; Linden, D.S.; Daughtry, C.S.; McCarty, G.W. Acquisition of NIR-green-blue digital 
photographs from unmanned aircraft for crop monitoring. Remote Sens. 2010, 2, 290–305. 

Agriculture 2021, 11, 832 
23 of 25 
 
 
52. 
Fawcett, D.; Azlan, B.; Hill, T.C.; Kho, L.K.; Bennie, J.; Anderson, K. Unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) derived structure-from-
motion photogrammetry point clouds for oil palm (Elaeis guineensis) canopy segmentation and height estimation. Int. J. Remote 
Sens. 2019, 40, 7538–7560. 
53. 
Xia, M.; Li, W.; Fu, H.; Yu, L.; Dong, R.; Zheng, J. Fast and robust detection of oil palm trees using high-resolution remote 
sensing images. In Automatic Target Recognition XXIX.; International Society for Optics and Photonics: Baltimore, MD, USA, 
2019; doi:10.1117/12.2518352. 
54. 
Wang, Y.; Zhu, X.; Wu, B. Automatic detection of individual oil palm trees from UAV images using HOG features and an SVM 
classifier. Int. J. Remote Sens. 2019, 40, 7356–7370. 
55. 
Kalantar, B.; Idrees, M.O.; Mansor, S.; Halin, A.A. Smart counting—Oil palm tree inventory with UAV. Coordinates 2017, 13, 17–
22. 
56. 
Zortea, M.; Nery, M.; Ruga, B.; Carvalho, L.B.; Bastos, A.C. Oil-palm tree detection in aerial images combining deep learning 
classifiers. In Proceedings of the IGARSS 2018-2018 IEEE International Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium, Valencia, 
Spain, 22–27 July 2018. 
57. 
Khaki, S.; Wang, L.; Archontoulis, S.V. A cnn-rnn framework for crop yield prediction. Front. Plant Sci. 2020, 10, 1750. 
58. 
Sinambela, R.; Mandang, T.; Subrata, I.D.M.; Hermawan, W. Application of an inductive sensor system for identifying ripeness 
and forecasting harvest time of oil palm. Sci. Hortic. 2020, 265, 109231. 
59. 
Diana, S.R.; Purnama, S.M.; Dharma, G.; Sutrisnanto, A.; Perwitasari, I.; Farida, F. Estimation the Amount of Oil Palm Produc-
tion Using Artificial Neural Network and NDVI SPOT-6 Imagery. Int. J. Innov. Sci. Res. Technol. 2019, 4, 548–554. 
60. 
Karia, A.A.; Bujang, I.; Ahmad, I. Forecasting on crude palm oil prices using artificial intelligence approaches. Am. J. Oper. Res. 
2013, 3, 29230. 
61. 
Kanchymalay, K.; Salim, N.; Sukprasert, A.; Krishnan, R.; Hashim, U.R.A. Multivariate time series forecasting of crude palm oil 
price using machine learning techniques. IOP Conf. Ser.: Mater. Sci. Eng. 2017, 226, 012117. 
62. 
Mustakim, M.; Buono, A.; Hermadi, I. Performance comparison between support vector regression and artificial neural network 
for prediction of oil palm production. J. Ilmu Komput. Dan Inf. 2016, 9, 1–8. 
63. 
Combres, J.-C.; Pallas, B.; Rouan, L.; Mialet-Serra, I.; Caliman, J.-P.; Braconnier, S.; Soulié, J.-C.; Dingkuhn, M. Simulation of 
inflorescence dynamics in oil palm and estimation of environment-sensitive phenological phases: A model based analysis. 
Funct. Plant Biol. 2013, 40, 263–279. 
64. 
Hoffmann, M.P.; Vera, A.C.; Van Wijk, M.T.; Giller, K.E.; Oberthür, T.; Donough, C.; Whitbread, A.M. Simulating potential 
growth and yield of oil palm (Elaeis guineensis) with PALMSIM: Model description, evaluation and application. Agric. Syst. 
2014, 131, 1–10. 
65. 
Zuhaimy, I.; Azme, K. Neural network in modeling Malaysian oil palm yield. Am. J. Appl. Sci. 2011, 8, 796–803. 
66. 
Oettli, P.; Behera, S.K.; Yamagata, T. Climate based predictability of oil palm tree yield in Malaysia. Sci. Rep. 2018, 8, 2271. 
67. 
Chapman, R.; Cook, S.; Donough, C.; Lim, Y.L.; Ho, P.V.V.; Lo, K.W.; Oberthür, T. Using Bayesian networks to predict future 
yield functions with data from commercial oil palm plantations: A proof of concept analysis. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2018, 151, 
338–348. 
68. 
Alfatni, M.S.M.; Shariff, A.R.M.; Abdullah, M.Z.; Marhaban, M.H.; Shafie, S.B.; Bamiruddin, M.D.; Saaed, O.M.B. Oil palm fresh 
fruit bunch ripeness classification based on rule-based expert system of ROI image processing technique results. IOP Conf. Ser. 
Earth Environ. Sci. 2014, 20, 012018. 
69. 
Okoro, S.U.; Schickhoff, U.; Böhner, J.; Schneider, U.A. A novel approach in monitoring land-cover change in the tropics: Oil 
palm cultivation in the Niger Delta, Nigeria. DIE ERDE–J. Geogr. Soc. Berl. 2016, 147, 40–52. 
70. 
Zheng, J.; Li, W.; Xia, M.; Dong, R.; Fu, H.; Yuan, S. Large-scale oil palm tree detection from high-resolution remote sensing 
images using faster-rcnn. In Proceedings of the IGARSS 2019, 2019 IEEE International Geoscience and Remote Sensing 
Symposium, Yokohama, Japan, 28 July–2 August 2019. 
71. 
Rizeei, H.M.; Shafri, H.Z.; Mohamoud, M.A.; Pradhan, B.; Kalantar, B. Oil palm counting and age estimation from WorldView-
3 imagery and LiDAR data using an integrated OBIA height model and regression analysis. J. Sens. 2018, 2018, 2536327. 
72. 
Srestasathiern, P.; Rakwatin, P. Oil palm tree detection with high resolution multi-spectral satellite imagery. Remote Sens. 2014, 
6, 9749–9774. 
73. 
Li, W.; Dong, R.; Fu, H.; Yu, L. Large-scale oil palm tree detection from high-resolution satellite images using two-stage convo-
lutional neural networks. Remote Sens. 2019, 11, 11. 
74. 
Descals, A.; Wich, S.; Meijaard, E.; Gaveau, D.L.; Peedell, S.; Szantoi, Z. High-resolution global map of smallholder and indus-
trial closed-canopy oil palm plantations. Earth Syst. Sci. Data Discuss. 2020, 1–22, doi:10.5194/essd-2020-159. 
75. 
Shaharum, N.S.N.; Shafri, H.Z.M.; Ghani, W.A.W.A.K.; Samsatli, S.; Prince, H.M.; Yusuf, B.; Hamud, A.M. Mapping the spatial 
distribution and changes of oil palm land cover using an open source cloud-based mapping platform. Int. J. Remote Sens. 2019, 
40, 7459–7476. 
76. 
M athew, L.S.; Spannagl, M.; Al-Malki, A.; George, B.; Torres, M.F.; Al-Dous, E.K.; Al-Azwani, E.K.; Hussein, E.; Mathew, S.; 
Mayer, K.F. A first genetic map of date palm (Phoenix dactylifera) reveals long-range genome structure conservation in the 
palms. BMC Genom. 2014, 15, 1–10. 
77. 
Mubin, N.A.; Nadarajoo, E.; Shafri, H.Z.M.; Hamedianfar, A. Young and mature oil palm tree detection and counting using 
convolutional neural network deep learning method. Int. J. Remote Sens. 2019, 40, 7500–7515. 

Agriculture 2021, 11, 832 
24 of 25 
 
 
78. 
Juman, M.A.; Wong, Y.W.; Rajkumar, R.K.; Goh, L.J. A novel tree trunk detection method for oil-palm plantation navigation. 
Comput. Electron. Agric. 2016, 128, 172–180. 
79. 
Morel, A.C.; Saatchi, S.S.; Malhi, Y.; Berry, N.J.; Banin, L.; Burslem, D.; Nilus, R.; Ong, R.C. Estimating aboveground biomass in 
forest and oil palm plantation in Sabah, Malaysian Borneo using ALOS PALSAR data. For. Ecol. Manag. 2011, 262, 1786–1798. 
80. 
Gutiérrez-Vélez, V.H.; DeFries, R. Annual multi-resolution detection of land cover conversion to oil palm in the Peruvian Am-
azon. Remote Sens. Environ. 2013, 129, 154–167. 
81. 
Abdani, S.R.; Zulkifley, M.A. Densenet with spatial pyramid pooling for industrial oil palm plantation detection. In Proceedings 
of the 2019 International Conference on Mechatronics, Robotics and Systems Engineering (MoRSE), Bali, Indonesia, 4–6 Decem-
ber 2019. 
82. 
Shaharum, N.S.N.; Shafri, H.Z.M.; Ghani, W.A.W.A.K.; Samsatli, S.; Yusuf, B.; Al-Habshi, M.M.A.; Prince, H.M. Image classifi-
cation for mapping oil palm distribution via support vector machine using Scikit-learn module. Int. Arch. Photogramm. Remote 
Sens. Spat. Inf. Sci. 2018, 42, 133–137. 
83. 
Shaharum, N.S.N.; Shafri, H.Z.M.; Ghani, W.A.W.A.K.; Samsatli, S.; Al-Habshi, M.M.A.; Yusuf, B. Oil palm mapping over Pen-
insular Malaysia using Google Earth Engine and machine learning algorithms. Remote Sens. Appl. Soc. Environ. 2020, 17, 100287. 
84. 
Li, W.; Fu, D.; Su, F.; Xiao, Y. Spatial–Temporal Evolution and Analysis of the Driving Force of Oil Palm Patterns in Malaysia 
from 2000 to 2018. ISPRS Int. J. Geo-Inf. 2020, 9, 280. 
85. 
Nooni, I.K.; Duker, A.A.; Van Duren, I.; Addae-Wireko, L.; Osei Jnr, E.M. Support vector machine to map oil palm in a hetero-
geneous environment. Int. J. Remote Sens. 2014, 35, 4778–4794. 
86. 
Culman, M.; de Farias, C.M.; Bayona, C.; Cruz, J.D.C. Using agrometeorological data to assist irrigation management in oil palm 
crops: A decision support method and results from crop model simulation. Agric. Water Manag. 2019, 213, 1047–1062. 
87. 
Rueda, C.; J. Miserque, and R. Laverde. Validation of an oil-palm detection system based on a logistic regression model. In 
Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE ANDESCON, Arequipa, Peru, 19–21 October 2016. 
88. 
Fadilah, N.; Saleh, J.M.; Ibrahim, H.; Halim, Z.A. Oil palm fresh fruit bunch ripeness classification using artificial neural net-
work. In the proceedings of 2012 4th International Conference on Intelligent and Advanced Systems (ICIAS2012), Kuala Lum-
pur, Malaysia, 12–14 June 2012. 
89. 
May, Z.; Amaran, M. Automated oil palm fruit grading system using artificial intelligence. Int. J. Eng. Sci. 2011, 11, 30–35. 
90. 
Bensaeed, O.M.; Shariff, A.M.; Mahmud, A.B.; Shafri, H.; Alfatni, M. Oil palm fruit grading using a hyperspectral device and 
machine learning algorithm. IOP Conf. Ser. Earth Environ. Sci. 2014, 20, 012017. 
91. 
Makky, M.; Soni, P. Development of an automatic grading machine for oil palm fresh fruits bunches (FFBs) based on machine 
vision. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2013, 93, 129–139. 
92. 
Albakri, Z.M.; Kassim, M.S.M.; Abdullah, A.F.; Harith, H.H. Analysis of Oil Palm Leaf Phyllotaxis towards Development of 
Models to Determine the Fresh Fruit Bunch (FFB) Maturity Stages, Yield and Site-Specifc Harvesting. Pertanika J. Sci. Technol. 
2019, 27, 659–672. 
93. 
Taparugssanagorn, A.; Siwamogsatham, S.; Pomalaza-Ráez, C. A non-destructive oil palm ripeness recognition system using 
relative entropy. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2015, 118, 340–349. 
94. 
Septiarini, A.; Hamdani, H.; Hatta, H.R.; Anwar, K. Automatic image segmentation of oil palm fruits by applying the contour-
based approach. Sci. Hortic. 2020, 261, 108939. 
95. 
Shabdin, M.K.; Shariff, A.R.M.; Johari, M.N.A.; Saat, N.K.; Abbas, Z. A study on the oil palm fresh fruit bunch (FFB) ripeness 
detection by using Hue, Saturation and Intensity (HSI) approach. IOP Conf. Ser. Earth Environ. Sci. 2016, 37, 12039. 
96. 
Sabri, N.; Ibrahim, Z.; Syahlan, S.; Jamil, N.; Mangshor, N.N.A. Palm oil fresh fruit bunch ripeness grading identification using 
color features. J. Fundam. Appl. Sci. 2017, 9, 563–579. 
97. 
Fadilah, N.; Mohamad-Saleh, J. Color feature extraction of oil palm fresh fruit bunch image for ripeness classification. In 
proceedings of the 13th International Conference on Applied Computer Science 2014, Kualalampur, Malaysia, 23–25 April 2014; 
pp. 51–55. 
98. 
Hazir, M.H.M.; Shariff, A.R.M.; Amiruddin, M.D. Determination of oil palm fresh fruit bunch ripeness—Based on flavonoids 
and anthocyanin content. Ind. Crops Prod. 2012, 36, 466–475. 
99. 
Fadilah, N.; Mohamad-Saleh, J.; Abdul Halim, Z.; Ibrahim, H.; Ali, S.S.S. Intelligent color vision system for ripeness classification 
of oil palm fresh fruit bunch. Sensors 2012, 12, 14179–14195. 
100. Harun, N.H.; Misron, N.; Sidek, R.M.; Aris, I.; Ahmad, D.; Wakiwaka, H.; Tashiro, K. Investigations on a novel inductive concept 
frequency technique for the grading of oil palm fresh fruit bunches. Sensors 2013, 13, 2254–2266. 
101. Adedayo, O.O.; Isa, M.M.; Soh, A.C.; Abbas, Z. Multi-adaptive neuro-fuzzy inference system for dielectric properties of oil palm 
fruitlets. Int. J. Appl. Sci. Eng. 2014, 12, 1–8. 
102. Fahmi, F.; Suherman, S. Oil palm fresh fruit bunch ripeness classification using back propagation and learning vector quanti-
zation. IOP Conf. Ser. Mater. Sci. Eng. 2018, 434, 12066. 
103. Kassim, M.S.M.; Ismail, W.I.W.; Ramli, A.R.; Bejo, S.K. Oil palm fresh fruit bunches (FFB) growth determination system to 
support harvesting operation. J. Food Agric. Environ. 2012, 10, 620–625. 
104. Patkar, G.; Anjaneyulu, G.S.G.N.; Mouli, P.C. Palm fruit harvester algorithm for elaeis guineensis oil palm fruit grading using 
UML. In Proceedings of the 2015 IEEE International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Computing Research (IC-
CIC), Madurai, India, 10–12 December 2015. 

Agriculture 2021, 11, 832 
25 of 25 
 
 
105. Ibrahim, Z.; Sabri, N.; Isa, D. Palm oil fresh fruit bunch ripeness grading recognition using convolutional neural network. J. 
Telecommun. Electron. Comput. Eng. (JTEC) 2018, 10, 109–113. 
106. Alfatni, M.S.M.; Shariff, A.R.M.; Bejo, S.K.; Saaed, O.M.B.; Mustapha, A. Real-time oil palm FFB ripeness grading system based 
on ANN, KNN and SVM classifiers. IOP Conf. Ser. Earth Environ. Sci. 2018, 169, 012067. 
107. Silalahi, D.D.; Reaño, C.E.; Lansigan, F.P.; Panopio, R.G.; Bantayan, N.C. Using genetic algorithm neural network on near infra-
red spectral data for ripeness grading of oil palm (Elaeis guineensis Jacq.) fresh fruit. Inf. Process. Agric. 2016, 3, 252–261. 
108. Ahirwal, M.K.; Kumar, A.; Singh, G.K. Prediction and Classification. In Computational Intelligence and Biomedical Signal Pro-
cessing; Springer: Cham, Germany, 2021; pp. 83–111, doi:10.1007/978-3-030-67098-6_4. 
109. Braga-Neto, U. Fundamentals of Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning; Springer: Cham, Germany, 2020; doi:10.1007/978-3-030-
27656-0. 
110. Saiz-Rubio, V.; Rovira-Más, F. From smart farming towards agriculture 5.0: A review on crop data management. Agronomy 
2020, 10, 207. 
111. Saritas, M.M.; Yasar, A. Performance analysis of ANN and Naive Bayes classification algorithm for data classification. Int. J. 
Intell. Syst. Appl. Eng. 2019, 7, 88–91. 
112. Soh, A.C.; Mayes, S.; Roberts, J.; Rajanaidu, N.; Din, A.M.; Marhalil, M.; Norziha, A.; Meilina, O.-A.; Fadila, A.M.; Azwani, 
A.B.N.; et al. Genetic Resources. In Oil Palm Breeding: Genetics and Genomics; CRC Press: Boca Raton, FL, USA, 2017; pp. 19–56. 
113. Rethinam, P.; Murugesan, P. Global perspective of germplasm and breeding for seed production in oil palm. Int. J. Oil Palm 
2018, 10, 17–34. 
114. Feldt, R.; Magazinius, A. Validity threats in empirical software engineering research—An initial survey. In Proceedings of the 
22nd International Conference on Software Engineering & Knowledge Engineering (SEKE'2010), Redwood City, San Francisco 
Bay, CA, USA,1–3 July 2010; pp. 374–379. 
