Review Research as Scientiﬁc
Inquiry
Sven Kunisch1
, David Denyer2,
Jean M. Bartunek3, Markus Menz4,
and Laura B. Cardinal5
Abstract
This article and the related Feature Topic at Organizational Research Methods were motivated by the
concern that despite the bourgeoning number and diversity of review articles, there was a lack of
guidance on how to produce rigorous and impactful literature reviews. In this article, we introduce
review research as a class of research inquiries that uses prior research as data sources to develop
knowledge contributions for academia, practice and policy. We ﬁrst trace the evolution of review
research both outside of and within management including the articles published in this Feature
Topic, and provide a holistic deﬁnition of review research. Then, we argue that in the plurality of
forms of review research, the alignment of purpose and methods is crucial for high-quality review
research. To accomplish this, we discuss several review purposes and criteria for assessing review
research’s rigor and impact, and discuss how these and the review methods need to be aligned with
its purpose. Our paper provides guidance for conducting or evaluating review research and helps
establish review research as a credible and legitimate scientiﬁc endeavor.
Keywords
philosophy of science, epistemology, methods, meta-analysis, research synthesis, review articles, systematic
literature reviews, integrative reviews, evidence-based management, rigor, impact, methodological ﬁt
Introduction
Although lagging after their recognition in medical and some social science ﬁelds, review articles
including research syntheses, meta–analyses, and integrative literature reviews have ﬂourished in
management and business scholarship in recent years. An analysis of the Web of Science database
1Aarhus University, Herning, Denmark
2Cranﬁeld School of Management, Cranﬁeld, UK
3Boston College, Chestnut Hill, MA, USA
4University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland
5University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC, USA
Corresponding author:
Sven Kunisch, Aarhus University, Herning, Denmark
Email: skunisch@btech.au.dk
Introduction: Feature Topic on Rigorous and Impactful Literature Reviews
Organizational Research Methods
2023, Vol. 26(1) 3–45
© The Author(s) 2022
Article reuse guidelines:
sagepub.com/journals-permissions
DOI: 10.1177/10944281221127292
journals.sagepub.com/home/orm

in the categories “business” and “management” reveals a substantial growth of review articles per
year over time, as displayed in Figure 1. The importance and growing popularity of review articles
have been recognized in multiple subﬁelds in business and management, including accounting
(Massaro et al., 2016), entrepreneurship (Combs et al., 2021; Kraus et al., 2020; Kraus et al., in
press), human resource management (Callahan, 2014; Torraco, 2005), international business (Paul
& Criado, 2020), organizational behavior and organization theory (Dasborough, 2020), marketing
(Hulland & Houston, 2020; Palmatier et al., 2018), strategy (Durand et al., 2017; Ethiraj et al.,
2017), and supply chain management (Durach et al., 2017; Seuring & Gold, 2012).
There is also a growing recognition that producing a “high–quality” review article is a demanding
scientiﬁc endeavor that requires multiple scientiﬁc skills and competences (e.g., Breslin & Bailey,
2020; Rojon et al., 2021; Wright & Michailova, in press). Indeed, a number of editorials and articles
including those in this Feature Topic have discussed how to produce high-quality review articles.
These works provide information on speciﬁc types of reviews, steps in the review process including
search and analyses as well as speciﬁc competences that are needed to produce and ultimately publish
high-quality review articles.
Figure 1. Number and percentage of published review articles over time.
Source: Own analysis based on Clarivate Web of Science data for the categories “business” and “management” (downloaded
on 22-09-2022).
4
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)

Although each of the prior works provides valuable insights, a holistic and comprehensive exposi-
tion of what constitutes high-quality review research is lacking. One can think of the focus on a singular
aspect of quality as studying a single shard of glass in a kaleidoscope and missing the potential vista.
Moreover, the increasing amount of advice reﬂects a growing recognition that a plurality of review
purposes and methods exist that build on diverse epistemological and ontological traditions (for tax-
onomies and typologies, see e.g., Cooper, 1988; Grant & Booth, 2009; Paré et al., 2015). This plu-
rality of review purposes and methods can create confusion about what constitutes a high-quality
review article (e.g., Greenhalgh et al., 2018) especially because different epistemological and onto-
logical traditions mean that there is no single set of criteria to assess their quality. Because of this
diversity, best practice recommendations for reviews in general risk creating more harm than help.
Practices that may work for some types of reviews may be dysfunctional for other types. For
example, although the focus on prestigious peer-reviewed journals has become a standard practice
in the article selection process, it can be detrimental for certain review purposes such as aggregating
knowledge, identifying publication biases or providing guidance for emerging topics.
In this article, we take a holistic and pluralistic perspective on review articles as a distinct form of
scientiﬁc inquiry. We propose review research as an umbrella term for various types of review arti-
cles and deﬁne it as a class of research inquiries that employ scientiﬁc methods to analyze and
synthesize prior research to develop new knowledge for academia, practice and policy-making.
The key deﬁning feature of review research which makes this type of research distinct from other
empirical inquiries and conceptual research is that it uses prior knowledge as its source of data to
develop new knowledge. However, as we will discuss, the role of prior knowledge and its many
faces can vary substantially in line with the purposes of the particular review research project.
Although no single set of criteria exist to assess the quality of review research, all forms of review
research are concerned with rigor and impact. As one of the main themes for the Feature Topic at
Organizational Research Methods on “How to Conduct Rigorous and Impactful Literature
Reviews” (Kunisch et al., 2018) we also address this here. To the best of our knowledge, this
Feature Topic is the ﬁrst concerted effort to discuss and highlight review research as a form of scientiﬁc
inquiry and various aspects of rigor and impact. This issue, and the articles published in it, represent a
substantial milestone in the development of review research, and are intended to further spur the devel-
opment of this mode of scientiﬁc inquiry as a legitimate form of scholarly research in and of itself.
In this article, we discuss the plurality of review purposes and methods to provide the context for
the papers in this Feature Topic and establish review research as a credible and important scientiﬁc
endeavor. First, we examine the history and advancement of review research outside of and within
the management ﬁeld to foster a better understanding about the evolution and diversity of review
research. We also brieﬂy introduce the articles included in the Feature Topic and clarify what
review research is. Second, we discuss eight different purposes inherent in review research that
not only consolidate previous work, but also generate unique knowledge contributions, critically
evaluate previous work, and develop and extend theory. Third, we specify six aspects of rigor and
impact and show how these help to provide the basis for assessing review research. By building
on existing collective wisdom and the articles showcased in this Feature Topic, we highlight the
importance of alignment between review purpose and review methods to produce rigorous and
impactful contributions through review research.
Foundations and Evolution
To foster a better understanding about review research as a legitimate form of scientiﬁc inquiry, we
trace the history and advancement of review research outside of and within the management ﬁeld. In
doing so, we show that review research can be rooted in multiple epistemological and ontological
traditions.
Kunisch et al.
5

Roots in Medicine and the Social Sciences
The foundations of review research can be linked to evidence-based practices as well as the push
for research syntheses that curate existing knowledge. These review research foundations also
reﬂect aspects of both “rigor” and “impact,” as we shall explore later in more depth. Movements
for evidence-based practice, initially in medicine, and the introduction of research syntheses and
meta-analysis in the social sciences, have spurred review research in our ﬁeld.
Systematic Reviews in Medicine. Evidence-based medicine and systematic reviews were spurred orig-
inally by the work of Archie Cochrane, a British physician who had been imprisoned by Germany
during World War II. While “caring for prisoners with tuberculosis, he lamented the lack of hard evi-
dence” (Levin, 2001, p. 310) on which treatment was best to use. After the war he specialized in epi-
demiology, and in 1972 he published Effectiveness and Efﬁciency: Random Reﬂections on Health
Services, in which he argued that randomized clinical trials (RCT) could separate valuable interven-
tions from harmful or useless ones (Cochrane, 1972). He wrote in 1979: “It is surely a great criticism
of our profession that we have not organized a critical summary, by specialty or subspecialty, adapted
periodically, of all relevant randomized controlled trials” (p. 9).
In response to Cochrane’s call for “systematic, up-to-date reviews of all relevant RCTs of health
care” (Chalmers, 1993, p. 157) Iain Chalmers, an obstetrician (p. 310) “set out in 1974 to create a
comprehensive register of all randomized clinical trials in perinatal medicine (pregnancy through
postpartum day 28).” He and his colleagues conducted systematic reviews on this topic, but
ongoing research meant that the reviews continually had to be updated. Finally, in 1993,
“Chalmers and an international group of about 70 others jointly announced the formation of the
Cochrane Collaboration to prepare, maintain, and disseminate systematic reviews of the effects of
health care interventions” (Chalmers, 1993, p. 159).
According to the Cochrane Collaboration, “A systematic review attempts to identify, appraise and
synthesize all the empirical evidence that meets pre-speciﬁed eligibility criteria to answer a speciﬁc
research question. Researchers conducting systematic reviews use explicit, systematic methods that
are selected with a view aimed at minimizing bias, to produce more reliable ﬁndings to inform decision
making” (Cochrane Library, 2022). As such, evidence from systematic reviews, meta-analyses, and
critical appraisals (i.e., review research that evaluates and synthesizes the literature) can be regarded
as a more important and valuable knowledge contribution than an individual, primary research study.
The use of evidence-based medicine has continued and expanded to include clinical judg-
ments. For example, Guyatt et al. (2004, p. 90) noted that “The philosophy of evidence based
medicine has evolved. Exponents increasingly emphasize the limitations of using evidence
alone to make decisions, and the importance of the values and preference judgments that are
implicit in every clinical management decision. They now see clinical expertise as the ability
to integrate research evidence and patients’ circumstances and preferences to help patients
arrive at optimal decisions.” Briner et al. (2009) discuss extensively the integration of different
forms of evidence in decision-making.
Meta-Analyses in the Social Sciences. There have been attempts to combine research ﬁndings in the
social sciences since at least the 1930s, such as work by Tippett (1931) and Fisher (1932) on statis-
tical methods. However, combining ﬁndings did not become inﬂuential until the 1970s, with the
development of meta-analysis. Meta-analysis emerged largely from a presidential address by
Glass (2000) at the American Educational Research Association meeting in 1974. Glass, who had
been trained in psychometrics and statistics, and who had been personally helped tremendously by
psychotherapy, was seeking a way to counteract what he saw to be unsupported claims by
Eysenck (1965) that psychotherapy was worthless. He developed an analytical method that included
6
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)

assessment of effect sizes across multiple studies of a phenomenon and ways of combining these
studies even if they had differing characteristics (e.g., Glass et al., 1981; Smith & Glass, 1977). In
the process, Glass and colleagues developed a way of showing the worth of psychotherapy.
Meta-analysis has spread to a large variety of social science ﬁelds over the years, including orga-
nizational psychology and management. The impetus for systematic reviews in management initially
came from industrial-organizational psychology, especially work by Schmidt and Hunter, that com-
menced in the 1970s and refuted conceptual notions of situational speciﬁcity (e.g., the belief that
validities of any selection procedure were situationally speciﬁc and not general). Some were con-
cerned that it was impossible to create replicable results across settings. However, the development
and use of meta-analysis validated that selection procedures are indeed general (e.g., DeGeest &
Schmidt, 2010; Schmidt & Hunter, 1977). Additional inﬂuential and trailblazing work that built
upon Glass, Hunter et al. (1982), Hedges and Olkin (1985), and Schmidt (1992) and others continued
to spread its use. Meta-analysis has increased in importance (DeSimone et al., 2018; Geyskens et al.,
2008; Steel et al., 2021; Stone & Rosopa, 2017), as the number of management studies has grown.
Light and Pillemer (1984) use the term research reviews rather than meta-analyses in their inﬂu-
ential book Summing Up: The Science of Reviewing Research. They addressed four general themes
(pp. 9–10): 1) “any reviewing strategy must come from the precise questions driving the review,” 2)
“disagreements among ﬁndings are valuable and should be exploited,” 3) “both numerical and qual-
itative information play key roles in a good synthesis,” and 4) “statistical precision cannot substitute
for conceptual clarity.” Further, they emphasized the contributions of such reviews for creating pol-
icies and for guiding practice as well as furthering research.
Consistent with Light and Pillemer’s third theme, utilizing both quantitative and qualitative methods in
systematic reviews has increasingly been supported, especially for policymakers and practitioners.
Researchers have experimented with a range of methods for synthesizing diverse forms of evidence such
as narrative summaries, thematic analysis, grounded theory, meta-ethnography, meta-studies, and realist synth-
eses (Boaz et al., 2006; Denyer et al., 2008; Dixon-Woods et al., 2005), a development that also took place in
other ﬁelds such as medicine (e.g., see Barnett-Page & Thomas, 2009; Thomas & Harden, 2008).
Social scientists interested in creating social policy needed reviews beyond what was available in
the Cochrane Collaboration. Several of them (Petrosino et al., 2001) formed the Campbell
Collaboration, named in honor of Donald Campbell, a well-known psychologist (Campbell
Collaboration, 2022). This equivalent of the Cochrane Collaboration aims: “promotes positive
social and economic change through the production and use of systematic reviews and other evidence
synthesis for evidence-based policy and practice” (Campbell Collaboration, 2022).
Chalmers et al. (2002) presented evidence showing the growth in recognition of the scholarly impor-
tance of scientiﬁc reviews. They noted that Garﬁeld (1979) (whose work laid the foundation for the Web
of Science) had recognized the importance of reviews for science and had even proposed a new profes-
sion, “scientiﬁc reviewer.” In addition, recent surveys of editors of core clinical medical journals by
Meerpohl et al. (2012); Meerpohl et al. (2012), and Krnic Martinic et al. (2019) found that most of
the editors of such journals considered [systematic] reviews to be original research. That is, “scientiﬁc
reviews” in ﬁelds such as medicine have moved beyond simply being sources of evidence for practition-
ers to make particular discrete decisions. They are increasingly being acknowledged by scholars and
journals editors not only as compendiums of knowledge, but also as original contributions to knowledge.
Impetuses in Business and Management
In business and management, impetuses for review articles are particularly notable pushes for
evidence-based management and for knowledge synthesis (such as fostered through the launch of
the Academy of Management Review). In addition, we consider this Feature Topic as a concerted
effort and important impetus for methodological advancements in review research.
Kunisch et al.
7

Evidence-Based Management. Tranﬁeld et al. (2003) introduced a methodology for systematic
reviews. They proposed evidence-based management (EBMgt) to contribute to evidence-based prac-
tice approaches the UK government was taking at the time. They described (p. 208) how “an
evidence-based movement has developed under New Labour,” and recognized that this movement
had had a major impact in several areas of work in the UK. Pre-eminent was medicine, but other
evidence-based approaches also emerged in government departments addressing education, crime
reduction, environment, transport, and the regions. Tranﬁeld et al. (2003) recognized that “systematic
reviews have tended to be applied in, and to emanate from, ﬁelds and disciplines privileging a pos-
itivist tradition, attempting to do for research synthesis what randomized controlled trials aspire to do
for single studies” (p. 210).
In her presidential address at the 2005 Annual Meeting of the Academy of Management, Rousseau
(2006) turned a spotlight on evidence-based management (EBMgt). Her focus was on providing
guidance on ways of translating organizational research into more effective management practice.
She did not use the term “systematic review” in that address, but she did discuss the importance
of “gather(ing) facts systematically in order to choose an appropriate course of action” (p. 260).
Since then, Rousseau, Denyer and Briner have been involved in several initiatives to establish
evidence-based management as an accepted approach by both scholars and managers. For
example, Rousseau (2012) sponsored a series of conferences on evidence-based management that
resulted in a handbook of evidence-based management. They have also established the approach
in a series of publications for academics and practitioners (e.g., Rousseau et al., 2008).
Briner et al. (2009) deﬁned evidence-based management in a way similar to evidence-based medicine:
“Evidence-based management is about making decisions through the conscientious, explicit, and judi-
cious use of four sources of information: practitioner expertise and judgment, evidence from the local
context, a critical evaluation of the best available research evidence, and the perspectives of those
people who might be affected by the decision” (p. 19). They deﬁned a systematic review (p. 25) as “a
replicable, scientiﬁc, and transparent approach that differs greatly from a traditional literature review.”
Several scholars have taken steps to make evidence-based management available to managers. For
example, Barends and Rousseau (2018) have established a Center for Evidence-based Management
(CEBMA.ORG) that is designed to foster the use of systematic searches for evidence by practition-
ers. Among other contributions, this center makes available to members several scholarly social
science databases that may be helpful to them. As another example, Sharma and Bansal (2020)
show that managers can not only be recipients of evidence-based work, but can also help create
research reviews that guide practice.
Beyond their potential impact on practice, Denyer and Tranﬁeld (2006) recognized that “(s)ystematic
reviews have become regarded as the most reliable form of research review (Clarke & Oxman, 2001;
NHS Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, 2001) due directly to the explicit and rigorous methods uti-
lized (Mulrow, 1994)” (p. 217). However, they also recognized some limitations of using such reviews in
the social sciences, given their positivist epistemology and the inability of meta-analysis to cope with
variations in data sources. Rynes and Bartunek (2017) also raised questions about systematic reviews
that reﬂect a purely positivist approach. Instead, they “particularly encourage integrative and explanatory
reviews (which incorporate multiple types of evidence) and interpretative reviews (which synthesize
qualitative research into higher-order theoretical constructs). (Further, they) encourage more aggregative
reviews that start with a practical question (rather than with a “body of literature” (p. 252).
Knowledge Synthesis. The launch of the Academy of Management Review (AMR) in 1976 was an
important milestone in the management ﬁeld. In the inaugural Editorial Comment, the ﬁrst
editor-in-chief, Max S. Wortman, Jr., noted the “objective of establishing a journal which is primarily
dedicated to theory, concept, and review type articles” (1976, p. 4, italics added). As such, AMR
8
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)

encouraged submissions of knowledge synthesis “which integrates several ﬁelds, sub-ﬁelds, or
approaches in management where they have not previously been brought together or which integrates
the ﬁeld of management with other non-management disciplines […].” Although AMR has shifted its
focus toward theory and conceptual work over time, in its ﬁrst 10 to 15 years it regularly published
theoretical syntheses (e.g., Eisenhardt (1989)) and meta-analyses (e.g., Thomas and Grifﬁn (1983),
Petty et al. (1984), Cotton and Tuttle (1986), and Dobbins and Platz (1986)).
Since then, several review journals and special review issues have been launched. Today, three
broad types of outlets for review articles can be distinguished: First, there are several specialized
review outlets, such as the Academy of Management Annals (launched in 2007 to ﬁll the vacancy
left by the shift in focus of AMR) and International Journal of Management Reviews (founded in
1999, see Cooper and Pearson, 1999). Second, several journals publish special review issues on a
regular basis (once or twice per year), such as the Journal of Management (inaugural issue in 1986,
see Bauer, 2009, Van Fleet et al., 2006, and Hunt, 1986), Journal of Organizational Behavior,
Journal of International Business Studies, and Journal of World Business. Third, a growing number
of journals publishes review articles in their regular issues including the International Business
Review, Journal of Applied Psychology, Journal of Management Studies, Leadership Quarterly,
Long Range Planning, and Strategic Management Journal, to name a few. They not only vary in
terms of publication frequency and domain; they also differ in terms of the types of review they seek.
Methodological Advancements in This Feature Topic. Since this Feature Topic is the ﬁrst concerted effort
for methodological advancement in reviews, we consider this Feature topic and the published articles in
it as an important milestone in the development of review research, with the goal to further develop this
mode of scientiﬁc inquiry as a legitimate form of scholarly research in and of itself. As shown in Table 1
and discussed below, the Feature Topic articles address multiple review purposes and cover different
aspects of rigor and impact as overarching concerns in scientiﬁc endeavors. These articles aid us in
comprehending what review research is (and is not), provide speciﬁc methodological guidance for con-
ducting review research, and point to new review research directions.
First, several articles advance our understanding about the distinct nature of reviews as a form of scho-
larship: Breslin and Gatrell (2023) address the uncertain relationship between reviews and theory develop-
ment. The authors develop a new classiﬁcation scheme by invoking the metaphor of a “miner-prospector
continuum.” Cronin and George (2023) outline an approach to writing an integrative review and provide
insight by synthesizing the current state of knowledge from multiple, perhaps competing, paradigmatic per-
spectives and communities of practice on a topic. They describe in detail and walk readers through speciﬁc
decision points to guide them in the writing of integrative reviews. Gond, Mena, and Mosonyi (2020)
discuss the performative nature of reviews. Reviews are not simply a task of making sense of signiﬁcant
volumes of literature. Rather, the impact of research reviews is to reconstitute the literature the review
encompasses. They illustrate this with the literature on corporate social responsibility.
Second, several articles provide methodological guidance for the research process and speciﬁc
review types: Simsek, Fox, and Heavey (2021) develop a framework of systematicity as an overarch-
ing orientation toward the application of explicit methods in the practice of literature reviews. They
describe its principles, practices and promises, and offer an assessment of published reviews in terms
of how much the reviews make use of systematicity practices. Hiebl (2021) analyzes the sample
selection process in systematic reviews. Building on an assessment of the reviews published in the
Academy of Management Annals and the International Journal of Management Reviews, he identi-
ﬁes several crucial steps of sample selection for systematic reviews and suggests how this can be con-
ducted in a structured, transparent, and comprehensive manner. Villiger, Schweiger, and Baldauf
(2022) offer advice for scholars on how to plan, conduct, and report coding in meta-analyses.
They present guidelines for each of the steps in the coding process. Aguinis, Ramani, and
Alabduljader (2023) focus on methodological reviews. Based on their assessment of state-of-the-art
Kunisch et al.
9

Table 1. Summary of Articles in this Feature Topic.
Articles (in alphabetical
order)
Focus
Review type concerned
Review purpose(s) addressed
Methods (aspect(s) of rigor and impact)
Aguinis et al. (2023)
Methods
Methodological literature
reviews
Representation problematization
aggregation
Execution (i.e., best practices)
contributions
Anderson and Lemken
(2023)
Purposes
Citation context analysis
Representation
Execution
analysis
Antons et al. (2023)
Technology
Computational literature
reviews
Not speciﬁed
Design: method, algorithms, and
roadmap analysis
Breslin and Gatrell
(2023)
Conceptualization and
delineation
Systematic literature
review
Explanation problematization
Interpretation
Analysis conceptual contributions
contributions
Cronin and George
(2023)
Conceptualization and
delineation
Integrative reviews
Classiﬁcation integration
explanation
Integration utility
Gond et al. (2020)
Performativity
Systematic literature
review
Problematization interpretation
Utility: performativity; re-presentation
and intervention
Hiebl (2021)
Search
Systematic literature
reviews
Not speciﬁed
Execution: sample selection
Sharma and Bansal
(2020)
Actors
Systematic literature
reviews
Not speciﬁed
Design utility
Simsek et al. (2021)
Methods
Systematic literature
review
Various
Execution: systematicity
Villiger et al. (2022)
Coding
Meta-analyses
Classiﬁcation
Execution: guidelines for the coding
process analysis
10
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)

practices, the authors derive several latent factors and observable indicators of successful and rigor-
ous reviews. Anderson and Lemken (2023) introduce citation context analysis as a detailed and rig-
orous form of literature review that goes beyond traditional narrative and systematic reviews to better
understand the impact of seminal works and inﬂuential authors. They present steps for carrying out
such reviews and illustrate them.
Finally, two articles point to new directions in review research: Sharma and Bansal (2020) argue
that reviews of academic research have not impacted management practice to the degree hoped, in
part because researchers and managers differ signiﬁcantly in their knowledge systems, what they
know, how they know it, and the kind of knowledge that that they see as useful. They describe
ways that researchers can navigate the tensions inherent in including managers as knowledge partners
in the review endeavor, as well as the beneﬁts of this partnership. Antons, Breidbach, Joshi, and Salge
(2023) introduce computational literature reviews (CLRs) as a new review method that makes use of
computational processes to go beyond the limits of human information processing. They describe the
capabilities, identify critical design decisions, and provide practical guidelines that make CLRs
accessible to novice and expert users alike.
A Holistic Deﬁnition of Review Research
Taken together, the aforementioned developments as well as the articles in this Feature Topic demon-
strate that stand-alone “review articles” have become an important form of research in the ﬁeld of busi-
ness and management. A plethora of terms and deﬁnitions exist for review articles. They have been
designated as “research reviews” (Durand et al., 2017; Light & Pillemer, 1984), “knowledge synthesis”
(Chen & Hitt, 2021), “literature reviews” (Webster & Watson, 2002), “systematic (literature) reviews”
(Denyer & Tranﬁeld, 2009; Rojon et al., 2021), “structured reviews” (Massaro et al., 2016), “state of the
art reviews” (Grant & Booth, 2009), “integrative reviews” (Elsbach & van Knippenberg, 2020), “prob-
lematizing reviews” (Alvesson & Sandberg, 2020), “narrative reviews” (Baumeister & Leary, 1997),
“critical reviews” (Wright & Michailova, in press), “meta analyses” and “meta-syntheses” (Siddaway
et al., 2019) “(academic) review articles” (Cropanzano, 2009; McMahan & McFarland, 2021; Short,
2009) and “review-centric work” (Hoon & Baluch, 2020). Although the terms and deﬁnitions emphasize
different aspects of review articles, they all share the use of prior data as the common deﬁning feature.
As already indicated in the introduction, we propose review research as an umbrella term and
deﬁne it as a class of research inquiries that employ scientiﬁc methods to analyze and synthesize
prior research to develop new knowledge for academia, practice and policy-making. Like other
forms of research, review research seeks to make an original knowledge contribution. This objective
distinguishes review research from literature reviews that are not stand-alone research projects (e.g.,
in introductions to Ph.D. theses, empirical papers, or research grant proposals). Notably, the role of
prior research and knowledge as the data is the key distinguishing feature of review research, which
makes this type of research distinct from quantitative research, qualitative research, and conceptual
research. Our deﬁnition recognizes that review research comprises a diverse range of research
methods that can be rooted in different epistemological and ontological traditions. This means that
there is no single set of criteria to assess their quality.
Purposes
There is a growing recognition that review articles can serve a variety of purposes (Chen & Hitt, 2021;
LePine & King, 2010; McMahan & McFarland, 2021; Rousseau et al., 2008). Our survey of the literature
reveals eight general purposes inherent in review research, whether these are made explicit or not: (1)
classifying, (2) representing, (3) problematizing, (4) conﬁguring, (5) aggregating, (6) integrating, (7) inter-
preting, and (8) explaining (see Appendix 1 for examples). These are not mutually exclusive; and in fact,
Kunisch et al.
11

some review research combines two or more complementary purposes. However, by specifying the
review purposes, we can distinguish the outcomes authors intend to produce, the quality criteria for
review articles, and the alignment of review methods with those outcomes.
(1) Classifying
We deﬁne classifying in review research as articulating, deﬁning, and producing clear, precise, and
parsimonious constructs drawn from multiple studies on a phenomenon of interest and the process of
putting them into distinct groups based on ways that they are alike. Classifying aims to surface the
nature, essential properties or characteristics of the concept or phenomenon under consideration.
Almost all review research involves recourse at some point to clarifying and classifying (Booth
et al., 2016). Classifying aims to advance conceptual understanding by locating potential ambiguity
around a construct and providing construct elucidation in a way that forms the foundation for build-
ing strong theory (e.g., Byrne et al., 2016).
Cronin and George (2023) remind us that research communities may have divergent views of the same
construct that reﬂect differing underlying ontological or epistemological assumptions. They note, for
example, the “very term identity might not be a legitimate construct to a game theorist, whereas using
mathematical evidence to substantiate outcomes might not be legitimate to an experimental psychologist”
(p. 172). Classifying can help distil such phenomena into robust conceptual generalizations, by making
“sense of a broad topic, frequently one with fuzzy boundaries, sometimes by integrating constructs from
different research streams” (Villiger et al., 2022, p. 722). Classifying involves describing and tabulating
the alternative ways in which the phenomenon under consideration has previously been deﬁned and show
how various constructs differ or how “conceptually comparable variables” can be associated with the
same overarching phenomenon (Villiger et al., 2022, p. 722). Classifying may also map out relationships
between the focal construct and other constructs with which the focal construct is related.
In one example of classifying in review research, Grant-Smith and McDonald (2018) produce a
matrix which delineates four distinct forms of unpaid work along two dimensions – purpose of par-
ticipation and level of participatory discretion. The review and resulting matrix provide conceptual
clarity around unpaid work practices that informs future research. Hällgren et al. (2018) review
the fragmented ﬁeld of extreme contexts research, sharpen deﬁnitions and develop a context-speciﬁc
typology to help differentiate between contributions from research into risky contexts, emergency
contexts, and disrupted contexts. In yet another example, van Grinsven et al. (2016) develop a typol-
ogy of four alternative approaches to translation and show how these are associated with institutional,
rational, dramaturgical and political perspectives. In one ﬁnal example, Shipton (2006) offers a typol-
ogy for organizational learning research that categorizes the literature according to (a) its prescriptive/
explanatory bias and (b) in line with the level of analysis, examining whether there is a focus on the
organization as a whole or upon individuals and their work communities instead.
Classifying requires reviewers to reﬂect on extant theory and ideas with the aim of changing the
way scholars understand and interpret the constructs under consideration. The skillful use of lan-
guage is often employed to persuasively create precise and parsimonious categorical distinctions
between concepts that are comprehensible to a community of scholars. Carefully crafted constructs
produced by review research are powerful creative tools that enhance the potential for theory devel-
opment (Suddaby, 2010, p. 346). Clarifying provides a common terminology as well as guidance and
direction for future research.
(2) Representing
Representing in review research is deﬁned as analyzing the structural and conceptual relationships
between data extracted from review research and the production of a visual or graphical
12
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)

representation of the ﬁeld of study. Representing attempts to produce an accurate depiction of a
given ﬁeld’s components and relationships making it possible for scientists to interact with
complex ﬁelds, not observable in other ways. For example, a citation network map can provide
a topic topology overview of a complex ﬁeld that details key contributions and how they are
related. Novel visualization techniques assist with interdisciplinary research analytics and map
common (and distinct) topics across publications from different disciplines. Representing is a valu-
able way to map knowledge developments over time, as well as trends of topics of interest in the
research literature (Greenhalgh, 2004; Snyder, 2019).
Pickering (1994) notes that “representationalism takes it for granted that the deﬁning characteristic
of science is its production of representations of nature, facts and theories” (p. 413), quoted in Gond
et al. (2020). Representing typically examines the co-authorships, citations, and themes that occur in
a ﬁeld. Various authors highlight that an important outcome of review research is to “map and to
assess the existing intellectual territory” (Tranﬁeld et al., 2003, p. 208), produce a “knowledge
map, which analyzes and synthesizes prior literature” (Frank & Hatak, 2014, p. 103), “to conceptu-
ally assess and map the state of the art of a nascent ﬁeld” (Hoon, 2013, p. 544).
When several hundreds or even thousands of works on a topic exist, computational and biblio-
metric methods become increasingly necessary to identify key themes that have been impactful in
terms of informing research agendas (Anderson & Lemken, 2023; Antons et al., 2023). Reviewers
then undertake a quantitative, bibliometric assessment of the academic quality of journals, articles,
or authors by indicators such as citation rates. Relevant data are extracted, such as the publications’
contents, references, citations, and (co)authorships. Analysis of a set of publications in the domain is
based on quantitative indicators such as its evolution over time, number of citations, most proliﬁc
authors, etc. (Antons et al., 2023).
As an example of representing, Zha et al. (2020) produce a visual map of the knowledge structure
and thematic distribution of the literature on brand experience and provide a roadmap for future brand
experience research. Similarly, Vogel and Güttel (2013) generate a visual citation network map of the
dynamic capabilities view in strategic management. Several clusters of thematically related research
are extracted from bibliographic networks, representing interconnected yet distinct subﬁelds of
inquiry. These citation and co-citation network analyses are used to ﬁnd relationships between
cited publications and the set of publications that cite the research (e.g., co-citation analysis, coupling
analysis, collaboration analysis or co-occurrence analysis) to create visual representations of the pub-
lications network. Extraction of themes from the underlying network are used to discover current
research areas as well as their evolution through time (Anderson & Lemken, 2023).
(3) Problematizing
Following Alvesson and Sandberg (2011), problematizing is deﬁned as “a methodology for identi-
fying and challenging assumptions underlying existing literature, and based on that, formulating
research questions that are likely to lead to more inﬂuential theories.” To problematize means to
“challenge the value of a theory and to explore its weaknesses and problems in relation to the phe-
nomena it is supposed to explicate” (Alvesson & Kärreman, 2007, pp. 1265−1266). This purpose of
review research aims to extend conceptual knowledge and practice by critically appraising and chal-
lenging the assumptions underlying existing theories. For example, Breslin and Gatrell (2023, p. 152)
note that researchers “review the current body of literature, to identify a tension or opposition, which
represents the starting point for novel theorizing.” Search is often undeﬁned and subjective. Sources
are selected for the review when they reveal prior theoretical omissions or inconsistent ﬁndings and
anomalies and are “incomplete, inadequate, or incommensurable (Locke & Golden-Biddle, 1997;
Rowe, 2014)” (Breslin & Gatrell, 2023, p. 152). Through critical analysis of a selected set of
sources, reviewers attempt to surface and challenge the assumptions held by authors and
Kunisch et al.
13

taken-as-givens within the ﬁeld and to “reveal weaknesses, contradictions, controversies, or incon-
sistencies” (Aguinis et al., 2023, p. 52). They next problematize the existing “position,” demonstrat-
ing the consequences of such assumptions or alternative assumptions on theorizing, then
“problematize a ﬁeld’s key constructs or theories, and reset priorities in ways that can produce sub-
sequent paradigmatic turns” (Gond et al., 2020, p. 15).
Problematizing lays out compelling, logical arguments to examine ﬂaws, contradictions, interde-
pendencies, (un)warranted assumptions, overly limiting boundary conditions or previously unques-
tioned assumptions that have a social or ethical dimension. Alvesson and Sandberg (2011) offer
several types of assumptions which can be challenged, such as those within a speciﬁc school of
thought (“in house”), broader images of a particular subject matter underlying existing literature
(“root metaphor”), ontological, epistemological and methodological assumptions underlying existing
literature (“paradigm”), political-moral and gender related assumptions underlying existing literature
(“ideology”), and assumptions about a speciﬁc subject matter that are shared across different theo-
retical schools (“ﬁeld”).
Iszatt-White and Kempster (2019), as one example, address what authors of published work per-
ceive to be substantive ﬂaws in the construct authentic leadership. They critically evaluate the devel-
opment of the construct and propose the need for a radical re-grounding of authentic leadership. In
another example, Gond et al. (2016) provide a critical review of performativity and reveal the uses,
abuses and under-uses of the concept by organization and management theory scholars.
Problematizing is primarily an “endeavor to know how and to what extent it might be possible to
think differently, instead of what is already known” (Foucault, 1985, p. 9; cited from Alvesson &
Sandberg (2011), p. 253). The approach requires the skillful use of language to persuasively
create a critical account designed to convince a particular audience. It develops a point of view or
“position” and then offers reasons to support that position by forthright claims and undermining
of the opposing position (Breslin & Gatrell, this issue). Without reviews that challenge the assump-
tions that underlie existing theories, it is not possible to problematize them or construct research ques-
tions that may lead to the development of more interesting and inﬂuential theories (Breslin & Gatrell,
this issue).
(4) Conﬁguring
Conﬁguring in review research is an approach that helps researchers look for patterns across multiple
studies to better understand the combinations of factors and conditions that result in changes or other
outcomes in some situations and not others. It enables the analysis of multiple existing studies in
complex situations. It can be used in situations where there are either too few cases or insufﬁcient
homogeneity to apply conventional statistical analysis (see aggregating below). Conﬁguring accom-
modates both quantitative and qualitative studies. It requires in-depth knowledge of the studies
included in the review but is also capable of generating ﬁndings that can be generalized to other sit-
uations by means of developing and examining theory (Pawson, 2002a).
The ﬁrst step involves the development of a nascent theory of change. Alternatively, an existing
theory of change can be used. The task of the researcher is then to examine the combinations of initial
conditions that lead to the outcomes of interest (Fiss, 2007; Ragin, 2000). The search involves ﬁnding
all relevant studies, both qualitative and quantitative. These studies are then treated as “cases” (e.g.,
individuals, organizations, societies, policies, events), of a family of equivalent (but not identical)
manifestations of the phenomenon of interest whose purpose is to test, revise, and reﬁne a prelimi-
nary theory (Denyer et al., 2008). The project is based on case knowledge, whereby the researcher
seeks to observe how different attributes of the cases consistently ﬁt together to produce an
outcome (Ragin, 2000). Conﬁguring locates causal powers in the “combination” of attributes of
these cases, leading to the outcome of interest (Ragin & Becker, 1992). It is possible that more
14
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)

than one set of conditions can lead to the observed outcome. Conﬁguring compares studies with dif-
ferent sets of causally relevant conditions to identify the decisive conﬁgurations, and thereby unravel
causal complexity (Ragin, 2008).
In one example of this approach, Denyer et al. (2008) undertook review research on High
Reliability Organizations (HROs) (Roberts, 1990). By comparing studies of HROs in different con-
texts, Denyer et al. (2008) produced a set of propositions that explained what HRO practices in what
conditions produced desirable organizational outcomes. The study by Denyer et al. (2008) highlights
the potential of using qualitative comparative analysis in review research. Dust and Ziegert (2016)
suggest that the context determines the effectiveness of a particular multi-leader team conﬁguration,
because each formation has unique internal team mechanisms. Zimmermann (2011) offers a conﬁg-
urational perspective on relationships in transnational, virtual teams (TNTs) and reveals how several
characteristics of the team structure, organizational context, and socio-political environment may
facilitate or inhibit relationship aspects. Ellwood et al. (2017) adopt a theory-led, realist synthesis
of innovation speed research to develop a new time-based framework for categorizing the innovation-
speed literature.
A similar form of theory-led review research, termed realist synthesis, has been used in other
social science ﬁelds, such as criminal justice, to inform evidence-based policy and practice
(Pawson, 2002a). The approach aims to “articulate underlying program theories and then interrogate
existing evidence to ﬁnd out whether and where these theories are pertinent and productive”
(Pawson, 2006, p. 74). Each study of the phenomenon of interest is regarded as a case and the
reviewer compares and contrasts the cases to identify the “combinations” of attributes (attribute
sets) that explain the presence and absence of the outcome (Denyer et al., 2008). The result is a
“model, explaining for whom, in what circumstances, in what respect and why, certain interventions
produce preferred outcomes” (Pawson, 2002a, p. 346).
(5) Aggregating
We deﬁne aggregating in review research as the extraction of data from multiple, comparable, inde-
pendent studies for the purpose of measuring the effect or covariation among independent and depen-
dent variables. Given that aggregating projects seek to combine individual variables from multiple
studies with outcomes of interest, it is crucial that variables are homogenous (Aguinis et al.,
2023). Where possible, meta-analysis is used in aggregative reviews to increase the power and pre-
cision of estimates of treatment effects and can address questions such as the “Direction of effect?
Size of effect? Is effect consistent? Strength of evidence of effect?” (Aguinis et al., 2023, p. 52).
Aggregating must be accomplished by a review method that is designed and operationalized to
minimize “bias” or “subjectivity.” Being thorough, careful, systematic, and logical contributes
directly to this outcome (Briner et al., 2009). Such reviews begin with a predetermined scope of
review questions and sub-questions. A comprehensive search is then performed to ﬁnd all relevant
studies. Explicit criteria are used to include and exclude studies, and usually include research
beyond studies found in prestigious journals. Depending on the speciﬁc purpose, unpublished
research studies found in the “grey” literature may be taken into account (Adams et al., 2017). A com-
prehensive set of recommendations for collecting studies can be found in Higgins et al. (2019).
Established standards to critically appraise study quality are employed to ensure that the review
research is based on the best available evidence. Speciﬁc methods for extracting and synthesizing
study ﬁndings are developed and made explicit (Denyer & Tranﬁeld, 2009). Data are then extracted,
for example, from surveys or experimental trials contained within the review sources. The data are
then combined/aggregated using statistical techniques to produce a single estimate of the effect under
consideration (i.e., independent variables). Aggregating collates all that is known on a given topic
and identiﬁes the basis of that knowledge. The approach captures ﬁndings from the studies included
Kunisch et al.
15

in the review about the “outcome” or “output” or “result” or “effect” (i.e., dependent variable) that
needs to be explained (Aguinis et al., 2023).
For example, a meta-analysis by Miller and Cardinal (1994) developed a comprehensive model
that drew upon prior contingency frameworks that could explain the strategic planning and ﬁrm per-
formance relationship. They found that methods factors accounted for most of the variance in the
relationship. In another example, Miller et al. (1991) conducted a meta-analysis on the technology-
structure relationship by examining popular and neglected moderators. The motivation for their
aggregation study was that prior scholars studied single variables at a time.
In many ﬁelds of science, aggregating starts “with a practical question (rather than with a ‘body of
literature’)” (Rynes & Bartunek, 2017, p. 252) and is employed to inform policy and practice by
examining the efﬁcacy of actions and interventions to improve practice. For example, Mulrow
(1994) argues that aggregating can “establish whether scientiﬁc ﬁndings are consistent and can be
generalized across populations, settings, and treatment variations, or whether ﬁndings vary signiﬁ-
cantly by particular subsets” (p. 597). Through aggregating, review research can resolve controversy
between conﬂicting ﬁndings and provide a reliable basis for decision making (Tranﬁeld et al., 2003).
(6) Integrating
Integrating in review research seeks to synthesize and build linkages and relationships across previ-
ously disconnected studies or schools of thought, such that new frameworks and perspectives on the
topic are generated. Integrating seeks to merge ideas and ﬁndings from related areas (Macpherson &
Jones, 2010, p. 109). Baumeister and Leary (1997) argue that “good literature reviews must be an
integrative endeavor” (p. 316). Dwertmann and van Knippenberg (2020) suggest that the “unique
value of [integrating] for organizational research is the potential to provide theory development, cri-
tique, and integration across different areas of study … (p. 105). Through integrating, review research
highlights the contrasting and complementary ways that researchers have studied the same or similar
topics and connects different streams of literature (Durand et al., 2017). Cronin and George (2023)
contend that a “thorough and well-written integrative review synthesizes the current state of knowl-
edge of a topic and brings together different ‘conversations’ (Huff, 2009) thereof that might be rooted
in different paradigms” (p. 168).
Integrating is particularly important in ambiguous and complex ﬁelds and phenomena that cannot
necessarily be well understood from a single perspective. Diversity and a plurality of perspectives is a
strength, but can also lead to a lack of interaction and productive dialogue between research groups
(Tranﬁeld & Starkey, 1998). Integrating aims to draw connections across research domains and ﬁnd
ways to establish dialogue between different approaches (Tsoukas, 2009). In emergent research
areas, integrating can connect research ﬁndings from disparate sources in original ways so that a
new perspective or phenomenon emerges. In mature research areas, review research can help
bridge fragmented areas where different research traditions are not sufﬁciently informing and
drawing from each other.
Integrating involves linking theoretical angles that are embedded in and stem from different
research paradigms (Burrell & Morgan, 1979) and approaches (Hardy & Clegg, 1997). It provides
opportunities to map out important areas of agreement and disagreement, as well as uncover new
insights and new research requirements. Constructively contrasting an emerging paradigm with an
established domain can enable communication between different theoretical worldviews and
reduce fragmentation of management theories (Chen & Hitt, 2021; Donaldson, 1998). Integrating
review research might trace the historical development of a new perspective and reﬂect on how
the perspective developed from and is embedded in social and intellectual processes. For example,
as noted by Suddaby (2010), management scholars “often ‘borrow’ concepts from other disciplines,
such as psychology or biology” (Whetten et al., 2009) or “take constructs developed at one level of
16
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)

analysis, such as the individual, and apply them to another level of analysis, such as the group, team,
or organization (Floyd, 2009)” (pp. 348–349).
Examples of integrating include the following: Mowbray et al. (2015) connect studies on
employee voice from a diverse range of disciplines; Miller et al. (2014) integrate studies from diver-
gent theoretical perspectives and review the major enablers and barriers to corporate rebranding, with
special attention to contextual factors; Menz (2012) integrates the dispersed knowledge about func-
tional executives such as chief ﬁnancial ofﬁcers, chief information ofﬁcers, chief marketing ofﬁcers,
and chief strategy ofﬁcers in different ﬁelds; and Menz et al. (2015) synthesize the knowledge about
the corporate headquarters in the ﬁelds of management and international business and develop an
integrative framework.
Integrating requires the ability to draw meaning from seemingly disconnected ideas. Recognizing
and engaging in dialogue and debate between a novel perspective and other alternative theoretical
approaches (Hardy & Clegg, 1997) requires reﬂexivity (Alvessonet al., 2008; Johnson &
Duberley, 2000). Reviewers using this approach need to have skill in “reading between the lines”
and “connecting the dots” between different groups of literatures. They also need to reﬂexively
step out of their own world-view, learn new vocabulary and methods, and view the topic from alter-
native perspectives.
(7) Interpreting
Interpreting in review research is deﬁned as the critique and synthesis of independent studies cover-
ing a phenomenon of interest by means of reviewers creating and associating their own subjective
and intersubjective meanings as they interact with the literature. Interpreting involves attempts to
understand phenomena through accessing the meanings that authors of the primary studies and the
interpretive reviewer both assign to them. Interpretative approaches such as meta-ethnography aim
to identify and translate similar concepts, meanings, metaphors and mechanisms across studies to
provide a richer account of a particular phenomenon (Noblit & Hare, 1988).
Interpreting may offer understanding for unexpected or anomalous ﬁndings that emerge from
research or may help generate more comprehensive and generalizable theory (Gond et al., 2020).
Interpreting may also provide insights into the reasons why interventions succeed or fail and, as
such, may usefully inform the implementation of interventions and programs (Denyer &
Tranﬁeld, 2006). With interpreting, search and selection processes are similar to the principle of
saturation in grounded qualitative research (Breckenridge & Jones, 2009), whereby the reviewer
determines when there are adequate studies included in the review, such that the inclusion of
further studies would not materially alter the view that is developed of the structure of the ﬁeld, or
of the key insights, or the overall conclusions (Denyer & Tranﬁeld, 2006).
Meta-ethnographic studies are still rare in management scholarship. An example outside of man-
agement by Toye et al. (2017) explores healthcare professionals’ experiences treating chronic non-
malignant pain by conducting a qualitative evidence synthesis. In another example, Daker-White
et al. (2021) produce a synthesis of qualitative studies concerning Infection Prevention and
Control (IPC) in care homes for older people.
Interpreting requires a considerable immersion of the reviewer in the individual studies to achieve
a synthesis (Godfrey et al., 2016). This is, as noted by Gond et al. (2020), “a performative endeavor
characterized by a dual process of re-presenting the literature—constructing an account that is differ-
ent from the existing literature—and intervening in the literature—adding to the literature and poten-
tially transforming it” (p. 2). Some interpretative techniques, such as meta-ethnography, enable a
body of qualitative research to be drawn together in a systematic way (Noblit & Hare, 1988). The
process of reciprocally translating the ﬁndings from each study into those from all the other
studies in the synthesis, if applied rigorously, ensures that qualitative data can be combined “into
Kunisch et al.
17

higher-order theoretical constructs” (Rynes & Bartunek, 2017, p. 252). Following this essential
process, the synthesis can generate new interpretations and theories that go beyond the ﬁndings of
the individual studies synthesized (Campbell et al., 2015; Popay et al., 2006), whilst preserving
the interpretive properties of the original studies.
(8) Explaining
Explaining in review research is deﬁned as the identiﬁcation and analysis of observations, patterns,
uniformities, causes, or trends that have not been previously identiﬁed in the individual primary
studies. Explaining advances conceptual knowledge and practice by illuminating important
“hows,” “whys,” and links between causes and effects or correlations and pieces them together
(Denyer & Tranﬁeld, 2006). Explaining moves beyond description of a phenomenon to explain
why it exists or what causes it. For example, it might explain patterns between seemingly unrelated
dimensions, or explore the root causes behind real world events, and try to predict what will happen
next (Rousseau et al., 2008). Explaining is an “opening up exercise” that enables researchers to
reimagine existing literature in ways that generate new and “better” ways of thinking about speciﬁc
phenomena (Alvesson & Sandberg, 2011). Explaining is a creative activity (Torraco, 2005), involv-
ing disciplined imagination (Weick, 1989) and is always based on and bounded by researchers’
assumptions about the subject matter in question.
An example of explaining in review research is found in Dada (2018), who produced a compre-
hensive model of entrepreneurial autonomy in franchised outlets. The review reveals the core factors
and associated secondary factors that are important for understanding franchisee entrepreneurial
autonomy. Kunisch et al. (2017) also provide an example. The authors analyze and synthesize the
existing knowledge about strategic change through a time lens. Another example is Cundill et al.
(2018), who use data from the literature to produce a process model of non-ﬁnancial shareholder
inﬂuence. Underpinned by the inﬂuencing context, this conceptualization centers on three primary
shareholder interventions: divestment, dialogue, and shareholder proposals. In yet another
example, Mergen and Ozbilgin (2021) produce a morality-based process model of followers’ contin-
ued participation in the toxic game. The review frames the dynamic system that sustains toxic lead-
ership by means of continued support of the followers.
Explaining is often driven by a particular question or set of propositions. The search method is
often undeﬁned and subjective, but also systematic. Reviewers selectively draw on established
sources that contain linked ideas that, in turn, provide a new explanation of a phenomenon under con-
sideration (Rousseau et al., 2008). The synthesis then draws on existing studies to explain why a
pattern or uniformity exists. Reviewers generatively combine existing ideas from multiple studies
to provide a new model, framework, or other unique contribution that can generate new interpreta-
tions and theories that go beyond the ﬁndings of the individual studies synthesized (Campbell et al.,
2015). Studies are compared against each other and against the outcomes of interest. Reviewers iden-
tify hidden or “exogenous” variables that may have inﬂuenced the results and thereby spell out con-
textual conditions under which a proposed explanation will or will not apply.
Rigor and Impact
The plurality of purposes in review research from various epistemological and ontological traditions
means that there is no single set of criteria to assess their quality. However, as with other research
(Shrivastava, 1987), and based on contemporary social science scholarship (Aguinis et al., 2014),
it is reasonable to assume that all forms of review research aim for both rigor and impact in some
manner. Based on an analysis of editorials and articles on review research including the articles pub-
lished in this Feature Topic, we suggest that there are six aspects of rigor and impact (for examples,
18
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)

see Appendix 2): (1) design, (2) execution, (3) analysis, (4) synthesis, (5) contribution, and (6) uti-
lization that may characterize review research.
While all review research needs to consider the different aspects of rigor and impact, the speciﬁc
criteria and methodological implications can differ across the different review purposes. The goal for
scholars should thus be to achieve purpose-method ﬁt (i.e., methodological ﬁt), which refers to the
internal consistency among elements of a research project (Edmondson & McManus, 2007; Gehman
et al., 2018; Knight et al., 2021).
As noted by Simsek et al. (2021), “researchers need to be clear about the purpose of their review
from the outset” (p. 21); in other words, purposes and hoped-for outcomes should guide the design
and implementation of review research. Assessment criteria can be developed based at least in part on
how the rigor and impact of the review research will be evaluated by the intended audiences (aca-
demic, policy and/or practice), based on the purposes pursued. Once the assessment criteria have
been considered, the review methods and approaches should support achieving the review outcomes.
Table 2 provides an overview on how the assessment criteria and methods for rigorous and impactful
research ought to be aligned with the purposes. We introduce the six aspects of rigor and impact, and
exemplify how these can be aligned with the particular purpose(s) of the review research endeavor in
the following section.
(1) Design
Design concerns the overall strategy or plan for the review research (Gough et al., 2012). Review
research should be seen as “a self-contained research project in itself that explores a clearly speciﬁed
question” (Briner et al., 2009, p. 671). While review research, like all research (Huff, 2009), follows
several general steps (e.g., Tranﬁeld et al., 2003), the approach, speciﬁc methods and techniques vary
depending on the purpose (and intended outcomes) of the review. For example, Kraus et al. (2020)
argue that reviews should follow “a transparent and reproducible methodology in searching, assess-
ing its quality and synthesizing it, with a high level of objectivity” (p. 4). The rigor of the review
research demands that the methodology chosen is well explicated and justiﬁed. Hiebl (2021)
argues that well-conducted review research—including sample selection—can be “summarized
into the following three widespread and accepted features: (a) structured, (b) transparent, and (c)
comprehensive” (p. 3). However, there are differences between types of review research based on
the degree to which the review design needs to be systematic and the search for relevant literature
needs to be exhaustive (Denyer & Tranﬁeld, 2006).
A key marker of rigor, particularly in aggregative and explanatory reviews, is the selection criteria
used to include or cite information sources in the review. Over time, research review designs have
become standardized with processes and criteria to ensure rigor (Tranﬁeld et al., 2003). For
example, much of the writing on systematic reviews in evidence-based practice focuses upon the
degree to which review research follows an appropriate design speciﬁed in a standardized review pro-
tocol (Denyer & Tranﬁeld, 2009). Review protocols set out all the steps of the review including the:
review questions; search processes (described in sufﬁcient detail so as to be repeatable); article
screening and study eligibility criteria (the rationale proposed to include/exclude articles so that deci-
sions are transparent); study validity assessment (approach proposed to critically appraise and assess
validity of included studies); data extraction (how relevant information and associated meta-data
from eligible studies are collected and recorded); data synthesis and presentation (the methods
used to undertake synthesis and justiﬁcation for the methodological choice). In some instances,
such as with reviews commissioned by the Cochrane and Campbell collaborations, review protocols
are peer reviewed prior to researchers undertaking the reviews. In much review research the goal of
searches is to identify all relevant studies on a topic. Therefore, searches are typically quite extensive.
Kunisch et al.
19

Table 2. Alignment of Purposes and Methods to Produce Rigorous and Impactful Review Research.
Purposes / Methods
Design
Execution
Analysis
Synthesis
Contribution
Utility
(1) Classifying
Systematic and
inclusive of a broad
range of study types.
Disciplined, investigative
efforts requiring critical
evaluation of the
limitations or
contradictions in
existing constructions
and deﬁnitions.
Appraisal of construct
deﬁnitions found in
publications. Creation
of new precise and
parsimonious
categorical distinctions
between concepts.
New typologies, tables and
diagrams along with
narrative expression and
summary.
Locates potential
ambiguity around a
construct and provides
construct clariﬁcation.
Provides a language and
frameworks for
describing complex
phenomena. Relatively
disinterested in policy
and practice
(2) Representing
Rigorous methods
for exploring and
analyzing large
volumes of scientiﬁc
data. Inclusive of a
broad range of study
types.
Thorough and detailed
examinations often
requiring skills in
bibliometric analysis,
network analysis and
visualisation and
technical skills in
computer science.
Mapping and analysis of
the network of studies,
analysis of references,
citations and (co)
authorships to reveal
collaboration patterns
and exploring the
intellectual structure of
the research ﬁeld, often
employing
computational
methods.
Tables, charts, graphical
displays, diagrams and maps
along with narrative
expression and summary.
Maps knowledge
developments and
unpacks evolutionary
subtleties of a speciﬁc
ﬁeld, while shedding
light on the emerging
areas, key themes and
trends.
Surfaces overlooked or
under researched areas
and questions and
areas for future
research. Relatively
disinterested in policy
and practice.
(3) Problematizing
Selective reviews
with citations
carefully chosen to
support a speciﬁc
position and to
undermine opposing
positions.
An intellectually
disciplined process of
actively and skillfully
critically appraising
existing literature for
being deﬁcient, ﬂawed
or unsatisfactory in
some way.
Arguments and
assumptions in
publications to develop
a point of view or
“position” and a “line of
argument”.
Identiﬁed and articulated
assumptions within a
speciﬁc school of thought.
Alternative, interesting
assumptions and critical
accounts designed to
convince a particular
audience. Written in the
form of a narrative
expression and summary.
Challenges existing ways
of thinkng for being
deﬁcient, ﬂawed or
unsatisfactory in some
way.
Is critical of policy and
practice, arguing what
is wrong with what
happens and why.
(4) Conﬁguring
Systematic and
inclusive. Treats
publications as similar
(but not the same)
“cases” of the
Thorough and detailed
examinations often
requiring skills in
corparative analysis.
Factors (or stimuli,
causal variables,
ingredients,
determinants, etc) that
are (not) present when
A mid range theory or
“inference to the best
explanation” based on the
available evidence.
Illuminates the
Challenges linear
additive models in
specifying causal
pathways with complex
interventions that differ
Informs policy and
practice by specifying
the most promising
intervention
components (‘active
(continued)
20
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)

Table 2. (continued)
Purposes / Methods
Design
Execution
Analysis
Synthesis
Contribution
Utility
phenomenon of
interest in a wide
range of different
contexts.
the intervention has
(not) been successful.
Indicates conﬁgurations
of actor, intervention
and contextual factors
that may be associated
with a given outcome.
multiple pathways that
might lead to the same
outcome. Written in the
form of a narrative
expression and summary.
from one another in
subtle (and not so
subtle) ways.
ingredients”) within
complex interventions
that might be
associated with
improved outcomes.
(5) Aggregating
Systematically
reviews and tests for
homogenity to
control for variability
in the actors,
interventions and
outcome, or
methological
dfferences.
Focused, transparent
and thorough data
collection and
investigations.
Reviewers are required
to document the
process and ﬁndings in a
way that could be
replicated.
Data on interventions
and effects from
multiple studies are
combined using
statistical methods.
Effect size denotes how
meaningful the
relationship between
variables or the
difference between
groups is.
Merged data from a
number of primary studies
produces a statistically
stronger measure of effect
than the analysis of any
single study, due to
increased data in the
analysis. Includes a
narrative expression and
summary.
Provides an
understanding of effect
and reasons for the
variation in effect varies
across studies.
Informs policy and
practice by specifying
the effectiveness of
interventions – “what
works”.
(6) Integrating
Systematic and
inclusive of a broad
range of study types
Critical evaluations that
bring together diverse
elements to construct a
new meaning or idea
requiring creative
connectedness and
putting interpretations
into perspective, in ways
that illuminate and
reveal their signiﬁcance.
Reveals previously
unnoticed connections
between ideas
relationships, themes
and trends. Recasts
ideas and themes into a
new or different
arrangements, which
reveal connections and
patterns that have not
been produced
previously.
Theoretical/conceptual
frameworks, or conceptual
maps. Creates new
perspectives on signiﬁcant
ideas and theories that can
answer questions not
originally possible to
answer. Written in the
form of a narrative
expression and summary.
Highlights contrasting
ways a topic has been
studied and connects
differing literature
streams. Makes new
connections across
disciplines and shaping a
more coherent and
integrated use of
knowledge.
Makes connections
across literatures;
opens doors to
hitherto unconsidered
ﬁelds of inquiry.
Relatively disinterested
in policy and practice.
(7) Interpreting
Selective or
systematic. Seeks
similar qualitative
studies but recognizes
Intellectually disciplined
processes of
reinterpreting evidence
and and developing own
Meanings across many
qualitative studies and
translating concepts,
themes and metaphors
Identiﬁcation of similar
meanings and mechanisms
across publications to
provide a richer account of
Offers interpretations
for unexpected or
anomalous ﬁndings
emerging from
Provides an
understanding of
interventions or
practices and people’s
(continued)
Kunisch et al.
21

Table 2. (continued)
Purposes / Methods
Design
Execution
Analysis
Synthesis
Contribution
Utility
that ﬁndings are
unique to certain
subjects and
circumstances.
interpretations for
unexpected or
anomalous ﬁndings
emerging from the
review.
across studies to
generate a new
interpretation, model
or theory beyond the
ﬁndings of the individual
studies, whilst
preserving the
interpretive properties
of the original studies.
a particular phenomenon,
through thick description
of experiences and
practices. Written in the
form of a narrative
expression and summary.
quantitative research
and may also elucidate
relationships identiﬁed
in these studies.
lived experiences of
them and may provide
insights into the
reasons why
interventions succeed
or fail
(8) Explaining
Systematic and
inclusive of a broad
range of study types
Disciplined inquiry,
requring theorising
through the use of
induction, deduction,
generlisations, model
building, using analogies,
and so on.
Addresses variables,
processes, mechanisms
to identify regularities,
general principles,
causal relationships.
Explores submerged
theories explicitly or
tacitly and/or to
addresses propositions
or research questions.
Theoretical/conceptual
frameworks, or conceptual
maps. Mid-range theories.
Written in the form of a
narrative expression and
summary.
Describes, explains,
and/or predicts the
phenomenon under
consideration. Draws
attention to what is
known as well as
competing explanations.
Identiﬁes overlooked
or under research
questions. Provides
explanations for what
happens and why.
22
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)

Searching for relevant literature usually reaches a point of saturation when the value of what is
still to be discovered is likely to be marginal. For example, Greenhalgh and Peacock (2005)
showed that in searches of complex and heterogeneous evidence (such as studies of the diffusion
of innovation) formal protocol-driven approaches may fail to identify important evidence. They
found that snowball methods such as pursuing references of references produced the greatest
yield of relevant articles, and informal approaches such as browsing, “asking around,” and
being alert to serendipitous discovery can also substantially increase the efﬁciency of search.
Some review research purposes, particularly integration, are inclusive of a broad range of
study types and must cope effectively with the sheer variety of information and knowledge
embedded in academic ﬁelds, the lack of a common shared understanding of disciplinary knowl-
edge, and differences in research questions, methods, data, and analysis procedures. In a frag-
mented ﬁeld (Tranﬁeld et al., 2003), increasing the comprehensiveness of a search will reduce
its precision and will retrieve more non-relevant articles, increasing the time and resources
required. Increasing the size of the pool from which studies are selected does not, in itself, guar-
antee an increase in the likely validity of a review’s ﬁndings (Hammersley, 2001).
Judgements and trade-off decisions must be made regarding the time and resources that should be
allocated to a comprehensive search and being systematic in the steps of reviewing research litera-
tures and the task of deeply engaging with and making sense of the literature. Further, review pur-
poses such as problematizing and interpreting require careful reading and assessment, insisting
that a review is a hermeneutic rather than mechanical task (Hammersley, 2001). Rigidly following
a predetermined plan or protocol can result in overly mechanical research reviews, whereby the
reviewer faithfully follows a set of prescribed steps, but the result is a superﬁcial reading of the mate-
rial found.
Design can also refer to who is involved in the review process. For example, Sharma and Bansal
(2020) show the complexity of designing processes that enable researchers and managers to collab-
orate on creating joint reviews. This requires planning ways to manage tensions between academics
and managers throughout the process. There may also be tensions between academics operating out
of different paradigms for review research, and some of the design approaches discussed by Sharma
and Bansal may apply in these instances as well.
(2) Execution
Execution is about demonstrating operational competence in collecting the studies for and then con-
ducting the review research, especially in terms of appropriate collection of studies and proﬁcient use
of appropriate analytic techniques (e.g., meta-analysis). For example, Villiger et al. (2022) contend
that coding in a review “is susceptible to high degrees of subjective decision-making, […] the same
rigor called for during data collection for primary research is likewise appropriate for the coding
process in meta-analyses” (p. 730). The qualities of being thorough, transparent, replicable, and
logical contribute directly to this outcome (Tranﬁeld et al., 2003). Aguinis et al. (2023) also argue
for “transparency and clarity of communication and reporting” (p. 58). Similarly, Antons et al.
(2023) refer to “the need for systematic, replicable, and rigorous literature reviews, but also highlight
the natural limits of human researchers’ information processing capabilities” (p. 107). Some
approaches, such as aggregation, are performed in ways that minimize “bias” or “subjectivity.” As
with other research, processes should be described in enough detail and be documented in such a
way that the same procedural steps should be able to be replicated in the sense that two researchers
asking the same question would employ the same methodology, albeit possibly reaching different
conclusions. Disclosing such information in the review is important and increases the transparency
and trustworthiness of the research ﬁndings. Simsek et al. (2021) summarize this “systematicity” as
“an encompassing orientation toward the application of explicit methods in the practice of literature
Kunisch et al.
23

reviews, informed by the principles of transparency, coverage, saturation, connectedness, universal-
ism, and coherence” (p. 2).
Inductive qualitative researchers have rejected the notion of objectivity as it is regarded in posi-
tivist approaches as appropriate for their work. Rather, following the lead of Lincoln and Guba
(1985) they argue that it is much more appropriate to assess the trustworthiness, reliability, and
authenticity of research. To accomplish this, in interpretative review research the aim is to encourage
researcher reﬂexivity, essentially researchers’ insight into their biases and rationale for decision-
making as the synthesis progresses. As noted by Gond et al. (2020), rather than seeing “biases” as
“problems” to be ruled out, their performative take on reviewing “suggests instead working produc-
tively and mindfully with them, as they offer powerful ways to develop a ﬁeld—rather than trying to
avoid or solve them at all costs” (p. 23).
Problematization reviews are necessarily selective because studies included in the review are care-
fully chosen by the reviewer to support a speciﬁc position or argument. In both interpretative and
problematization forms of review research, authors combine and bring to bear their knowledge,
wisdom, and skill to read, frame, and review the literature. By necessity, they build on the knowledge
and experiences authors bring to the task. These approaches to review research require considerable
immersion of reviewers in the individual studies in order to achieve a synthesis (Godfrey et al., 2016).
From this perspective, bias and subjectivity are highly valued. Reviewing is akin to what artists do
when they paint a picture or what composers do when they pen a sonata. Reviewers put their thoughts
to paper, pulling together ideas, insights, and information from a variety of sources with the intent of
creating a coherent narrative. The skill of producing high-quality review research distinguishes the
expert reviewer from the novice.
(3) Analysis
Analysis concerns the depth, richness, and appropriateness of the review, and whether, when ana-
lyzed, the studies included in it provide enough evidence to answer the review question(s)
(Tranﬁeld et al., 2003). Analysis is the job of breaking down articles included in the review into com-
ponent parts and describing how they relate to each other—it is not random deconstruction but a dis-
ciplined examination (Hart, 1998). The focus of the analysis varies according to the research review
project being undertaken. As we have discussed, in review research what constitutes relevant infor-
mation, data, and evidence to be extracted from published research can take multiple forms (Tranﬁeld
et al., 2003). Analysis can be portrayed in tables, charts, and typologies often found in the graphical
displays, diagrams, and maps found in representational approaches. Villiger et al. (2022) argue that
analysis “should be rigorously planned (i.e., cohere with the research objective), conducted (i.e.,
make reliable and valid coding decisions), and reported (i.e., in a sufﬁciently transparent manner
for readers to comprehend the authors’ decision-making)” (p. 716). Rigor is demonstrated in clear
links between information gleaned from the studies included in the review and the ﬁndings of the
review research. Researchers can show how their ﬁndings arose by detailed descriptions of the
process and presentation of the ﬁndings (Breslin & Gatrell, 2023), whereby “authors identify
gaps, connections, or insights that are molded into a new contribution” (p. 158).
Depending on the review purpose, analysis can be described in different ways. With an aggrega-
tive approach it is common practice for several researchers to conduct the analysis independently of
each other and then compare their ﬁndings, calculating an inter-rater relationship (for rating qualita-
tive judgements, see Perreault & Leigh, 1989) as a quality marker. Palich et al. (2000) provide an
application of the Perreault and Leigh index of inter-rater reliability in their examination of three
competing models of the diversiﬁcation-performance relationship. In contrast, in an interpretative
approach deep and insightful interactions with the data are highly valued (Noblit & Hare, 1988).
Researchers must employ imaginative insight as they attempt to make sense of the data and generate
24
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)

understanding and theory (Weick, 1989). Thus, research syntheses often depend upon the research-
ers’ creative interpretation of the studies included in the review. To support the research process,
reviewers need to surround themselves with data, both as a source of empirical information and inspi-
ration to trigger imaginative insights (Denyer & Tranﬁeld, 2009).
Context is not always considered in review research. Aggregative reviews that combine ﬁnd-
ings from quantitative experimental studies tend to be devoid of contextual considerations since
the original studies are similarly devoid. In aggregative synthesis it is also common to use a test
for homogeneity to determine if the results of the studies included are sufﬁciently similar to
warrant their combination into an overall result. Differences of concern include those in partic-
ipants, interventions or outcomes, study designs, or intervention effects or results. If context is
discussed it is usually handled in the narrative discussion of ﬁndings rather than in the synthesis
itself. This lack of attention to context has led to criticisms (Denyer & Tranﬁeld, 2009;
Hammersley, 2001; Pawson, 2002a) leveled against systematic reviews and meta-analyses
which restrict the types of research designs considered. Both the Cochrane and Campbell collab-
orations have encouraged the incorporation of qualitative data into systematic reviews that
allows attention to context.
In contrast, in an interpretative project contextual features may form categories by which the data
can be compared, contrasted and translated across original studies to facilitate interpretation (Popay
et al., 2006). Conﬁgurational analysis considers context as integral to the study and maintains that
empirical co-occurrence of particular contextual conditions (e.g., aspects of an intervention and
the wider context) and the outcome of interest provide the potential for inferring causation
(Charles, 1997; Denyer & Tranﬁeld, 2009). The focus is on what works, for whom, under what con-
ditions, why, and how (Pawson, 2002b).
(4) Synthesis
Synthesis is “the composition or combination of parts or elements so as to form a whole”
(Merriam-Webster, 2021). It involves recasting evidence and arguments into new, appropriate
arrangements. The product of synthesis might be frameworks, typologies or models, but synthesis
also pertains to the strength of a line of argument, quality of reasoning, application of logic, critical
thinking, interpretation, and theorizing underpinning claimed contributions. Synthesis involves com-
bining the data, insights or arguments from the studies included in the review into a new or different
arrangement (Dwertmann & van Knippenberg, 2020). The product of aggregative synthesis can be an
understanding of the “true” effect of interventions and might include summary statements of effec-
tiveness, like those mathematically displayed in meta-analyses (as an effect size). Briner et al. (2009)
argue that the “most appropriate method of synthesis depends on the types of evidence reviewed,
which in turn depend on the review question. It seems likely, given the idiosyncratic features of man-
agement and organization studies, that a range of approaches will be required” (p. 26).
In an interpretive project the aim of synthesis may be holistic explanation or understanding of a
phenomenon which is deepened by translating ﬁndings from multiple studies. In an explanatory
synthesis, the aim is to produce a conceptual framework or theory expected to be applicable
beyond the original study (Denyer & Tranﬁeld, 2006; Popay et al., 2006). An explanatory approach,
termed realist synthesis (Pawson, 2002b), seeks to identify the generative mechanisms whose prop-
erties are causal and, depending on the situation, may or may not be activated (Pawson, 2006).
Interpretive syntheses involve induction and interpretation, and are primarily conceptual. As such,
the synthesis might be a theory or theoretical framework. Interpretative, explanatory and conﬁgura-
tional syntheses can produce a theoretically generalizable mid-range theory that explains variation
across studies (Merton, 1967).
Kunisch et al.
25

Synthesis goes beyond a narrative description and summary of the studies included in the review.
It also recasts information gleaned from studies to interpret ﬁndings in new ways, reveal previously
unnoticed connections or counterintuitive ﬁndings (Breslin & Gatrell, 2023). Authors of reviews
infer, theorize, and conjecture, and through problematization can challenge taken for granted assump-
tions held in the ﬁeld in order to shed fresh insight on a topic (Alvesson & Sandberg, 2011).
Synthesis, particularly in interpretative and problematization approaches, also pertains to the strength
of a line of argument, quality of reasoning, application of logic, critical thinking, interpretation, and
theorizing underpinning claimed contributions. This may even involve ‘persuading’ readers and
reviewers (Wallace & Wray, 2011).
Interesting review research (Davis, 1971) challenges mainstream assumptions (Alvesson &
Sandberg, 2011). A key aspect is a detailed explication of how the ﬁndings of the review research
add to the existing knowledge through new interpretations. In an integrative project, researchers
often take a practical and pragmatic approach to their literature reviews, sometimes borrowing or
transforming concepts from other practice theories, or importing them from other disciplines
(Whetten et al., 2009). Scholars frequently use bricolage (Weick, 1995), assembling various building
blocks of literature into new explanations.
(5) Contribution
Central to review research is the idea of contributing above and beyond the individual studies. For
example, Elsbach and van Knippenberg (2018) argued that “well-executed integrative reviews prob-
ably offer a stronger basis for conclusions that represent the state of the science in a ﬁeld than any
other form of research” (p. 3). Thus, while review research necessarily depends on individual
study contributions that it includes in the analysis, it aims to contribute (to management and organi-
zation studies) insights “of a scope and theoretical level that individual empirical reports cannot nor-
mally address (Baumeister & Leary, 1997, p. 311). Short (2009) suggested that “review articles offer
perspectives to the management ﬁeld not commonly presented in other outlets. Consequently, review
articles have the potential to provide contributions akin to valuable works of art” (p. 1312). Snyder
(2019) contended that “a literature review can address research questions with a power that no single
study has” (p. 1).
Review research necessitates an original contribution on its own and can take multiple forms. That
is, just as empirical research may use multiple types of qualitative and quantitative methods, and just
as theoretical contributions may take many forms (cf. Cornelissen et al., 2021) the contributions of
review research are also diverse. The contributions of review research can be conceptual/theoretical,
empirical, or methodological in nature. Conceptual/theoretical contributions in a classiﬁcation
project might be improved conceptual deﬁnitions of the original constructs. In an integrative or
explanatory review, they might include the development of new theoretical linkages with their
accompanying justiﬁcation or development of improved theoretical rationale for existing linkages.
These contributions are realized when review research reveals “what we otherwise had not seen,
known, or conceived” (Corley & Gioia, 2011, p. 201). Thus, review research can result in contribu-
tions that are new, novel, unique and/or revelatory. These contributions extend well beyond gap spot-
ting approach (Alvesson & Sandberg, 2011), which Alvesson and Gabriel (2013) describe as “a
missing brick in a wall that the researcher diligently provides” (p. 248).
Empirical contributions in an aggregative review might accrue from testing theoretical relation-
ships between two constructs that have not previously been tested or the examination of the
effects of a potential moderator on the relationship between two constructs or between competing
theories. This form of contribution in review research may be concerned with the replication, conﬁr-
mation, or veriﬁcation of previous work. Many commentators overlook the importance of this con-
tribution. For example, Wright (2015) suggests that “no top-tier journal can afford to waste valuable
26
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)

space on papers that simply reiterate what the ﬁeld already knows” (p. 766). However, the consoli-
dation and veriﬁcation of research ﬁndings are critical to evidence-based practice and in some ﬁelds
the ﬁndings of systematic reviews are regarded as an important means of overcoming the limitation of
single, one-off studies (Briner et al., 2009). As Evanschitzky and Armstrong (2013) suggest: “If med-
icine used the same practice, researchers might test many treatments and occasionally discover some
of them useful by chance. Teachers should be wary of including the ﬁndings of one-off studies in
their curricula, and researchers need to recognize that such ﬁndings rest on a weak foundation”
(p. 1407).
Methodological contributions (Bergh et al., 2022) might include increasing the generalizabil-
ity of the research ﬁndings through aggregating data and employing new sampling procedures.
Reviews that are inclusive of different types of research have the potential to address problems
with shared method variance through the inclusion of studies with multiple methods of
measurement.
(6) Utilization
Utilization refers to the impact of the review on academia, such as the setting of new research
agendas, and/or the impact on practice, policy and society, such as informing decision making
and action. As noted above, knowledge produced in review research is likely to result in a conceptual
contribution that is indirect and cognitive (Beyer & Trice, 1982) and occurs when research changes
how people think about an issue. Common to all eight of the review research purposes is the desire to
ask research questions as well as solve them.
Review research might not only consider prior literature to determine what we know, but also
unearth what we do not know (Tranﬁeld et al., 2003). Review research develops future research
agendas on which other researchers can build. Linnenluecke et al. (2019) claim that review research
helps in “distinguishing what has been done from what needs to be done; identifying the main out-
comes of and methodologies used in prior studies; and avoiding fruitless research” (p. 3). The
research agenda typically provides meaningful directions for future research with reference to
theory, key constructs, propositions, methodology and potentially novel methods, and/or context
(Durand et al., 2017). Integrative reviews, in particular, can help promote agendas for multi-
disciplinary perspectives and cross-disciplinary investigations (Cronin & George, 2023). Review
research can also contribute to teaching, especially teaching doctoral students. Not only do
reviews provide a compilation of disciplinary knowledge, they can also encourage students to be crit-
ical, creative thinkers who learn how to connect and synthesize knowledge from reading review
research.
To this end, Cronin and George (2023) argue that review research generally serves two purposes:
“Adjudication organizes domain knowledge by eliminating error and producing ‘settled science’ with
respect to a topic (Davis, 2015). Redirection organizes domain knowledge by structuring it in such a
way that insights that promote new kinds of research emerge” (p. 171; italics highlights added).
Review research may also challenge or refute previous understandings, usually objections to existing
theoretical claims or to empirical claims within a ﬁeld of study. Kuhn (1962, 1970) argued that
science is not a simple accumulation of knowledge. Rather, science is marked by disagreements
over paradigms that may cause paradigm conﬂicts. Review research plays an important role in
advancing science not only by collating and consolidating knowledge but also by challenging the
prevailing consensus or assumptions in a body of work (Alvesson & Sandberg, 2011). McMahan
and McFarland (2021) demonstrated that review articles “perform curatorial work that substantially
transforms the research communities they aim to summarize” (p. 1). They further argued that review
articles often get cited instead of the articles mentioned in the review, because “reviews identify dis-
tinct clusters of work and highlight exemplary bridges that integrate the topic as a whole. These
Kunisch et al.
27

bridging works, in addition to the review, become a shorthand characterization of the topic going
forward and receive disproportionate attention” (p. 1).
Review research can also make scientiﬁc knowledge accessible and relevant to practitioners,
policy makers and other users outside of academia (Tranﬁeld et al., 2003). As such, the “general con-
sensus across all ﬁelds interested in evidence-based practice is that a synthesis of evidence from mul-
tiple studies is better than evidence from a single study” (Briner et al., 2009, p. 24). This objective
may be enhanced by involving managers in the review process (Sharma & Bansal, 2020, p. 2). The
aim of review research for evidence-based management is produce evidence that are generalizable to
multiple contexts and can be used to make reasonable predictions of future events (Rousseau et al.,
2008). In many social science ﬁelds, research utilization has been enhanced by reviewing ﬁelds of
literature in order to synthesize and convey essential collective wisdom from existing research
studies to professional practice (Tranﬁeld et al., 2003). Briner et al. (2009, p. 29) argue that “in
terms of practical utility, it is important to note that systematic reviews never provide ‘answers.’
What they do is report as accurately as possible what is known and not known about the questions
addressed in the review.” Review research is only one form of evidence that can be used to inform
practice (Briner et al., 2009), but as we have seen, it has the signiﬁcant advantages of rigor and
impact.
Conclusion
Producing rigorous and impactful review research is a demanding scientiﬁc endeavor that places dif-
ferent and often competing demands on the researcher. Producing such research is consistent both
with the “context of discovery” (“the form in which [thinking processes] are subjectively per-
formed”) and the “context of justiﬁcation” (“the form in which thinking processes are communicated
to other persons”) (Reichenbach, 1938, pp. 6-7; see also Popper, 1959, pp. 31-32). As we have seen
in all eight purposes, there is always an interplay of discovery and justiﬁcation in review research.
To use a metaphor from the context of law, a review researcher is a detective who asks probing
questions and systematically searches for and collates the best available evidence from a crime scene
to try to discover who the murderer is. The detective also needs the skill to painstakingly document,
analyze and interpret the evidence in valid ways, describing and justifying what was performed and
what was found when reporting the results. The researcher then takes on a second role that is anal-
ogous to the barrister who constructs a persuasive account and argues the case based on the available
evidence. It is not only the quality of the evidence but the quality of the arguments about it that make
the difference in a criminal trial. Figuring out the murderer is and proving the case in court are both
critical processes that must function together, yet they require fundamentally different cognitive pro-
cesses and practices.
As observed by Weick (1989, p. 516), theory “cannot be improved until we improve the theorizing
process, and we cannot improve the theorizing process until we describe it more explicitly, operate it
more self-consciously, and decouple it from validation more deliberately.” By providing a more
explicit description of the purposes of review research and the criteria to assess its rigor and
impact we hope that all reviewers can ﬁnd paths to a more natural and organic link to the contexts
of discovery and justiﬁcation.
Review research is a class of scientiﬁc inquiries that analyzes and synthesizes prior research in a
way that is distinct from other conceptual and empirical inquiries. While there is increasing agree-
ment that review research is an important form of scholarship, it sometimes is less appreciated,
respected, and valued in our ﬁeld than theoretical and empirical research, or review research in
other academic ﬁelds (Chen & Hitt, 2021; Elsbach & van Knippenberg, 2018). We believe that
one reason even among journal editors and reviewers and business school deans, is there is still a
lack of understanding about what constitutes “high-quality” review research (perhaps with the
28
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)

exception of meta-analysis). By building on the foundations of review research outside of and within
management, as well as thanks to the contributors to this Feature Topic, this article provides clarity
about what review research is, its various purposes, and the assessment criteria for rigor and impact.
We hope that this article and Feature Topic will truly establish review research as a credible and legit-
imate scientiﬁc endeavor.
Appendix 1: Purposes in review research
Purposes
Examples (italics denote articles in the ORM Featured Topic)
(1) Classifying
•
deﬁning concepts is a fundamental starting point for most literature reviews
(Booth et al., 2016)
•
reviews can provide construct clariﬁcation in a way that forms the foundation for
building strong theory (Byrne et al., 2016) (p. 1201)
•
carefully crafted constructs are powerful creative tools that enhance the
potential for theory development (Suddaby, 2010) (p. 346)
•
understanding of the research topic helps to “resolve deﬁnitional ambiguities
and outline the scope of the topic” (Breslin & Bailey, 2020, p. 1)
•
“aim to make sense of a broad topic, frequently one with fuzzy boundaries, sometimes by
integrating constructs from different research streams. The meta-analyst does not
subsume similarly measured constructs but rather conceptually comparable
variables associated with the same overarching phenomenon.” (Villiger et al., 2022,
p. 722)
•
“The very term identity might not be a legitimate construct to a game theorist, whereas
using mathematical evidence to substantiate outcomes might not be legitimate to an
experimental psychologist. Each community will explain a deviation from predicted
outcomes in such a way as to not contradict their underlying ontological or
epistemological assumptions.” (Cronin & George, 2023, p. 172)
(2) Representing
•
“Representationalism takes it for granted that the deﬁning characteristic of
science is its production of representations of nature, facts and theories”
(p. 413). Pickering (1994) Quoted in Gond et al. (2020)
•
a literature review is a “knowledge map”, which analyzes and synthesizes prior
literature. (Frank & Hatak, 2014) (p. 103)
•
reviews “map and to assess the existing intellectual territory, and to specify
a research question to develop the existing body of knowledge further (Tranﬁeld
et al., 2003) (p. 208)
•
“to conceptually assess and map the state of the art of a nascent ﬁeld.” (Hoon,
2013) (p. 544)
•
a review “often looks at how research within a selected ﬁeld has progressed over
time or how a topic has developed across research traditions” (Snyder, 2019)
(p. 335)
•
“Determines extent to which empirical studies in a speciﬁc research area support or reveal
any interpretable patterns or trends with respect to preexisting propositions, theories,
methodologies, or ﬁndings. Collects, codiﬁes, and analyzes numeric data that
reﬂect the frequency of the issues, authors, or methods found in the extant literature”
(Aguinis et al., 2023, p. 52)
•
“This type of review involves gathering all the citations to a given work, set of works, or
(continued)
Kunisch et al.
29

(continued)
Purposes
Examples (italics denote articles in the ORM Featured Topic)
author, and then using content analysis techniques to examine the Citations, contexts
and assess the realized impact of the work on a focal ﬁeld or diverse ﬁelds.”
(Anderson & Lemken, 2023, p. 77)
(3) Problematizing
•
reviews can “challenge the value of a theory and to explore its weaknesses and
problems in relation to the phenomena it is supposed to explicate” (Alvesson &
Kärreman, 2007) (pp. 1265−1266).
•
reviews can provide “evidence that existing theories are signiﬁcantly
deﬁcient in their ability to explain a particular phenomenon and that a fundamental
shift in thinking is needed to advance our understanding. Reviews can also make this
type of contribution by revealing new learning that challenges established
theory, boundaries, and assumptions in a way that suggests the need for a
punctuated shift in the way a problem is approached.” (LePine & King, 2010) (p. 507)
•
“Critically analyzes extant literature on a broad issue to reveal weaknesses,
contradictions, controversies, or inconsistencies. Does not necessarily compare the
covered works to one another. Holds each work up against a criterion and ﬁnds it more or
less acceptable.” (Aguinis et al., 2023, p. 52)
•
“Literature reviews provoke reality, the “what is,” as they produce new forms of knowledge
through the articulation of the literature they provide; they problematize a ﬁeld’s key
constructs or theories, and reset priorities in ways that can produce subsequent
paradigmatic turns.” (Gond et al., 2020, p.15)
•
“Researchers thus review the current body of literature, to identify a tension or
opposition, which represents the starting point for novel theorizing (Suddaby et al.,
2011). In this way, authors can show the literature is incomplete, inadequate, or
incommensurable (Locke & Golden-Biddle, 1997; Rowe, 2014)” (Breslin & Gatrell, this
issue) (p. 152)
(4) Conﬁguring
•
conﬁgurative approaches enable “researchers to theorize and empirically
examine causal complexity” (Misangyi et al., 2017) (p. 257).
•
“Design-oriented research synthesis uses the entire, diverse knowledge base on a
given class of ﬁeld problems to produce deep understanding of interventions
that, in given contexts, produce intended outcomes by invoking certain
generative mechanisms. Developing this rich solution-oriented knowledge
contributes both to increased understanding and the practical relevance of our
ﬁeld.” (Denyer & Tranﬁeld, 2009) (p. 408)
•
possible to compare and examine cases with different sets of causally relevant
conditions to identify the decisive conﬁgurations, and thereby unravel causal
complexity (Ragin, 2008)
•
The realist’s goal is to understand “how interventions or systems work in
various types of contexts. Studies are regarded as “case studies, whose
purpose is to test, revise and reﬁne the preliminary theory” (Pawson, 2006) (p. 74)
•
“articulate underlying programme theories and then interrogate existing
evidence to ﬁnd out whether and where these theories are pertinent and
productive” (Pawson, 2006) (p. 74)
•
“The results revise the model, explaining for whom, in what
circumstances, in what respect and why, certain interventions produce
preferred outcomes.” Pawson (2002a) (p. 346)
(5) Aggregating
•
“aggregative reviews that start with a practical question (rather than with a “body
of literature” (Rynes & Bartunek, 2017) (p. 252)
•
reviews “are critical evaluations of material that has already been published,” some
that include quantitative effects estimation (i.e., meta-analyses) and some that
do not (i.e., systematic reviews) Bem (1995) (p. 172)
(continued)
30
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)

(continued)
Purposes
Examples (italics denote articles in the ORM Featured Topic)
•
“establish whether scientiﬁc ﬁndings are consistent and can be generalised across
populations, settings, and treatment variations, or whether ﬁndings vary signiﬁcantly
by particular subsets. Meta-analyses in particular can increase power and
precision of estimates of treatment effects and exposure risks.” (Mulrow,
1994) (p. 597)
•
“meta-analysis allows researchers to create “super-samples” or “a sample from
many samples” to estimate the direction, size, and variance of theoretical
relationships – estimates that researchers can have conﬁdence in because they
summarize information across many different studies.” (Combs, Crook, & Rauch,
2019) (p. 2)
•
“Searches, identiﬁes, selects, appraises, and abstracts data from quantitative
empirical studies to answer the following questions: Direction of effect? Size of effect? Is
effect consistent? Strength of evidence of effect?” (Aguinis et al., 2023, p. 52).
(6) Integrating
•
“good literature reviews must be an integrative endeavour” (Baumeister &
Leary, 1997) (p. 316)
•
“reviews of prior literature serve an important purpose of integrating often
disparate research conversations.” (Ethiraj et al., 2017) (p. 1)
•
“The integrative literature review is a form of research that reviews, critiques,
and synthesizes representative literature on a topic in an integrated way such that new
frameworks and perspectives on the topic are generated” (Torraco, 2005) (p. 356)
•
“integrative and explanatory reviews (which incorporate multiple types
of evidence)” (Rynes & Bartunek, 2017) (p. 252).
•
“unique value of integrative reviews for organizational research in their potential
to provide theory development, critique, and integration across different areas
of study on top of the descriptive foundation of a review” (Dwertmann & van
Knippenberg, 2020) (p. 2)
•
reviews can help ﬁnd ways in which dialogue can be established between
different perspectives (Tsoukas, 2009)
•
“A thorough and well-written integrative review synthesizes the current state of knowledge
of a topic and brings together different “conversations” (to use Huff’s term) thereof
that might be rooted in different paradigms” (Cronin & George, 2023, p. 168)
(7) Interpreting
•
“A review is “in many ways considered as another form of qualitative data
analysis.” (Wickham & Woods, 2005) (p. 690)
•
“interpretative reviews (which synthesize qualitative research into
higher-order theoretical constructs)” (Rynes & Bartunek, 2017) (p. 252)
•
“seeks to identify and understand all potentially relevant research traditions that
have implications for the studied topic and to synthesize these using
meta-narratives instead of by measuring effect size” (Snyder, 2019) (p. 335)
•
“A good review article tells a story about what ideas are important and why, and
synthesis of this type, although necessary, need not be neutral. In presenting an
“ofﬁcial” account of a complex set of research to readers from diverse disciplinary
backgrounds, reviews must translate a specialized discourse into a more accessible
description, and that translation, like any, is apt to add an interpretive aspect to the
exposition.” (McMahan & McFarland, 2021) (p. 342)
•
the meta-ethnographic approach involves identifying and translating similar
concepts, meanings, metaphors and mechanisms across publications to
provide a richer account of a particular phenomenon (Noblit & Hare, 1988)
•
“To continue with the house metaphor, the choice between narrative and integrative
review thus comes down to whether one will glean insights by reﬂecting on the houses in
(continued)
Kunisch et al.
31

Appendix 2: Aspects of rigor and impact in review methods
(continued)
Purposes
Examples (italics denote articles in the ORM Featured Topic)
one’s own community of practice, or neighborhood, or by comparing across different
communities of practice, such as neighborhoods across different regions” (Cronin &
George, 2023, p. 174)
•
“as a performative endeavor characterized by a dual process of re-presenting the literature
—constructing an account that is different from the existing literature—and
intervening in the literature—adding to the literature and potentially transforming it.”
(Gond et al., 2020, p. 2)
(8) Explaining
•
“review articles seek to summarize and explain an existing literature”
(Cropanzano, 2009) (p. 1305)
•
reviews can be “an “opening up exercise” that enables researchers to imagine how
to rethink existing literature in ways that generate new and “better” ways
of thinking about speciﬁc phenomena” (Alvesson & Sandberg, 2011) (p. 1)
•
A review “gives readers an overview, it facilitates learning from existing
studies it reduces the risk of missing much within the core ﬁeld. Occasionally, some
additional knowledge can be produced through comparisons and synergy
effects (Alvesson & Sandberg, 2020) (pp. 6 −7)
•
synthesis can generate new interpretations and theories that go beyond the
ﬁndings of the individual studies synthesized (Campbell et al., 2015)
•
“This will be the authors” position and should weave the knowledge reviewed
together to present a new framework for research. This framework can bridge
communities of practice and lead to new insights and research directions. The
cross-pollination of knowledge can also lead to innovations in thought, substance, and
method that advance how the topic is studied and in management science more broadly.”
(Cronin & George, 2023, p. 178)
•
“Authors can choose a miner approach, adopting the norms of the discipline and
carving out their contribution, while prospectors might choose to view existing
literatures as a launch pad for future endeavors, challenging, disrupting, or
circumventing established disciplinary norms and assumptions.” (Breslin &
Gatrell, 2023, 159)
Methods
Examples (italics denote articles in the ORM Featured Topic)
(1) Design
•
Purposes and rationales (Torraco, 2005)
•
Topic choice (Torraco, 2016; Webster & Watson, 2002)
•
Planning and proposing (Parmigiani & King, 2019)
•
Clearly speciﬁed, answerable questions (Briner et al., 2009)
•
Pre-planned, protocol-driven methods (Denyer & Tranﬁeld, 2009)
•
Search, selection, appraisal, analysis, synthesis, and reporting (Tranﬁeld et al., 2003)
•
Search: sample selection (Hiebl, 2021), literature search (Harari, Parola, Hartwell, &
Riegelman, 2020), journal selection (Parmigiani & King, 2019), grey literature (Adams
et al., 2017), snowball search (Greenhalgh & Peacock, 2005)
(continued)
32
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)

(continued)
Methods
Examples (italics denote articles in the ORM Featured Topic)
•
Best practices and checklists (Fisch & Block, 2018; Paul & Criado, 2020; Siddaway et al.,
2019; Torraco, 2005, 2016)
•
Identifying and critically appraising relevant research (Liberati et al., 2009)
•
Computational methods (Antons et al., 2023)
•
Including managers as research partners (Sharma & Bansal, 2020)
(2) Execution
•
Transparent and reproducible methodology (Kraus et al., 2020; Snyder, 2019; Templier
& Paré, 2015)
•
transparency (Templier & Paré, 2018)
•
Systematic methods (Tranﬁeld, et al. 2003)
•
a high level of objectivity (Kraus et al., 2020) (p. 4).
•
Systematicity (Rojon et al., 2021; Simsek et al., 2021) Systematic evaluation (Anderson &
Lemken, 2023)
•
Structured, transparent, and comprehensive (Hiebl, 2021)
•
transparency and clarity of communication and reporting (Aguinis et al., 2023)
•
systematic, replicable, and rigorous (Antons et al., 2023)
•
considerable immersion of reviewer in the individual studies (Godfrey et al., 2016)
•
Working productively and mindfully with biases (Gond et al., 2020)
•
Transparency, coverage, saturation, connectedness, universalism, and coherence (Simsek
et al., 2021)
(3) Analysis
•
Coding (Gaur & Kumar, 2018; Webster & Watson, 2002)
•
Coding in meta-analysis (Villiger et al., 2022)
•
Citation context analysis (Anderson & Lemken, 2023)
•
Relationships, e.g., meta-analysis (Combs et al., 2019)
•
Critical analysis of assumptions (Alvesson & Sandberg, 2020)
•
critical assessment of prior work (Breslin & Gatrell, this issue)
•
Dialectical interrogation (Hoon & Baluch, 2020)
•
Grounded theory (Wolfswinkel, Furtmueller, & Wilderom, 2013)
•
Advancing the building blocks of a theory (Post, Sarala, Gatrell, & Prescott, 2020)
•
Computational analysis (Antons et al., 2023)
(4) Synthesis
•
Categorization (Dwertmann & van Knippenberg, 2020)
•
Forms of synthesis (Torraco, 2005, 2016)
•
Representations (Torraco, 2016) and visualization (Linnenluecke et al., 2019)
•
Integrative conceptual frameworks (Elsbach & van Knippenberg, 2020)
•
Integration (Cronin & George, 2023); Integration and synthesis (Dwertmann & van
Knippenberg, 2020); Integrating often disparate research conversations (Ethiraj et al.,
2017)
•
Synthesizing or integrating (Paré, Trudel, Jaana, & Kitsiou, 2015)
•
Meta-ehtnography (Noblit & Hare, 1988)
•
Imaginative insight and sensemaking (Weick, 1989)
•
Interpretative synthesis (Denyer & Tranﬁeld, 2006; Popay et al., 2006)
•
Conﬁgurational synthesis (and the outcome of interest provides the potential for
inferring causation (Denyer et al., 2008; Ragin, 2000, 2008)).
•
Problematization (Alvesson & Sandberg, 2020)
•
Realist synthesis and theory-led synthesis (Pawson, 2006)
•
Different ypes of synthesis (Briner et al., 2009)
(5) Contribution
•
Theoretical and conceptual contributions (Hoon & Baluch, 2020; LePine & King, 2010;
Post et al., 2020)
•
Theoretical contributions (Baumeister & Leary, 1997)
•
Map, consolidate and develop theory (Seuring & Gold, 2012)
(continued)
Kunisch et al.
33

Appendix 3: List of reviewers for this Feature Topic
Abdallah, Chahrazad; Adams, Richard; Alvesson, Mats; Ann Cunliffe; Antonakis, John; Baker, Thomas;
Beenen, Gerard; Berkowitz, Héloïse Amandine; Bodner, Todd; Bohnsack, René; Bohon, Stephanie;
Carrington, Michal; Carroll, Wendy; Cassell, Catherine; Colbert, Amy; Crook, Russell; Davidsson, Per;
Davison, H; DeJordy, Rich; Dhanani, Lindsay; Dhanaraj, Charles; Durand, Rodolphe; Elfenbein, Hillary;
Fink, Mattias; Floyd, Steven; Gaur, Ajai; Gephart, Robert; Gerard, Hodgkinson; Gibbert, Michael;
Golden-Biddle, Karen; Golgeci, Ismail; Hammersley, Martyn; Harley, Bill; Hodgkinson, Gerard;
Johnson, Douglas; Jones, Ossie; Kammeyer-Mueller, John; Kaplan, Seth; Kleindienst, Ingo; Kudesia,
Ravi; Lange, Don; Langley, Ann; LeBreton, James; Ligonie, Marion; Liu, Songqi; Locke, Edwin;
Meyer, Alan; Nerur, Sridhar; Paroutis, Sotirios; Pfarrer, Mike; Piekkari, Rebecca; Pilbeam, Colin;
Ployhart, Robert; Pratt, Michael; Putnam, Linda; Quinn-Trank, Chris; Rasheed, Abdul; Reger, Rhonda;
Reus, Taco; Richter, Ansgar; Ronda-Pupo, Guillermo Armando; Rousseau, Denise; Sarala, Riikka;
Sarala, Riikka; Saunders, Mark; Schad, Jonathan; Schmid, Torsten; Schwab, Andreas; Shapiro, Debra;
Shepherd, Dean; Short, Jeremy; Siddaway, Andy; Sieweke, Jost; Sin, Hock-Peng; Smart, Palie; Spee,
Andreas; Symon, Gillian; Teerikangas, Satu; Templier, Mathieu; Ueberbacher, Florian; Uitdewilligen,
Sjir; van Essen, Marc; Vivek Natarajan, lamar; Vogel, Rick; Welch, Catherine; Woehr, David; Wright,
Robert; Zupic, Ivan.
Acknowledgements
We are very grateful to the reviewers who devoted much time and effort to help the authors of the contributions sub-
mitted to this Feature Topic. We also thank Paul Bliese for his ongoing support of our endeavor and his many
(continued)
Methods
Examples (italics denote articles in the ORM Featured Topic)
•
Theorizing through reviews (Breslin & Gatrell, this issue)
•
Methodological contribution (Aguinis et al., 2023)
•
Stronger basis for conclusions than other forms of research (Elsbach and van
Knippenberg 2018)
•
Contributions akin to valuable works of art (Short, 2009)
•
Address research questions with a power that no single study has (Snyder, 2019)
(6) Utility
•
Creative destruction for scientiﬁc community (McMahan & McFarland, 2021)
•
Signaling biases (Salandra, Criscuolo, & Salter, 2021)
•
Evidence-based management (Rousseau et al., 2008); improve evidence-based decision
making (Tranﬁeld et al., 2003); support better decisions for policy-makers (Kraus et al.,
2020); evidence-based policy (Boaz et al., 2006; Pawson, 2002a, b; Pawson, 2006)
•
Implications for future research, practice and policy (Rojon et al., 2021); call attention to
unanswered questions (Simsek et al., 2021); rationalising a problem and new lines of
enquiry (Linnenluecke et al., 2019) redirection promotes new kinds of research (Cronin &
George, 2023) a platform for the future development of the ﬁeld (Durand et al., 2017)
•
Citing meta-analytic studies (DeSimone et al., 2018)
•
Conceptual, instrumental and symbolic knowledge (Beyer & Trice, 1982)
•
Performativity: Re-presentation and intervention (Gond et al., 2020)
•
Adjudication produced “settled science” (Cronin & George, 2023); building block for
knowledge advancement (Durach et al., 2017)
•
foundation for advancing knowledge (Webster & Watson, 2002)
•
Connect the historical evidence of systematic reviews with forward-looking prescriptions
(Sharma & Bansal, 2020)
34
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)

suggestions on earlier versions of this manuscript. Finally, we thank an anonymous reviewer as well as Blagoy
Blagoev, Johanna Mair, Emilio Marti, and Majken Schultz for valuable comments on a previous version of this
manuscript.
Declaration of Conﬂicting Interests
The author(s) declared no potential conﬂicts of interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publica-
tion of this article.
Funding
The author(s) received no ﬁnancial support for the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article
ORCID iD
Sven Kunisch
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8067-7454
References
Adams, R. J., Smart, P., & Huff, A. S. (2017). Shades of grey: Guidelines for working with the grey literature in
systematic reviews for management and organizational studies. International Journal of Management
Reviews, 19(4), 432-454. https://doi.org/10.1111/ijmr.12102
Aguinis, H., Ramani, R. S., & Alabduljader, N. (2023). Best-practice recommendations for producers, evalua-
tors, and users of methodological literature reviews. Organizational Research Methods, 26(1), 46-76. https://
doi.org/10.1177/1094428120943281
Aguinis, H., Shapiro, D. L., Antonacopoulou, E. P., & Cummings, T. G. (2014). Scholarly impact: A pluralist
conceptualization. Academy of Management Learning & Education, 13(4), 623-639. https://doi.org/10.5465/
amle.2014.0121
Alvesson, M., & Gabriel, Y. (2013). Beyond formulaic research: In praise of greater diversity in organizational
research and publications. Academy of Management Learning & Education, 12(2), 245-263. https://doi.org/
10.5465/amle.2012.0327
Alvesson, M., & Kärreman, D. (2007). Constructing mystery: Empirical matters in theory development.
Academy of Management Review, 32(4), 1265-1281. https://doi.org/10.5465/amr.2007.26586822
Alvesson, M., Lee Ashcraft, K., & Thomas, R. (2008). Identity matters: Reﬂections on the construction of identity
scholarship in organization studies. Organization, 15(1), 5-28. https://doi.org/10.1177/1350508407084426
Alvesson, M., & Sandberg, J. (2011). Generating research questions through problematization. Academy of
Management Review, 36(2), 247-271. https://doi.org/10.5465/amr.2009.0188
Alvesson, M., & Sandberg, J. (2020). The problematizing review: A counterpoint to Elsebach and van
Knippenberg’s argument for integrative reviews. Journal of Management Studies, 57(6), 1290-1304.
https://doi.org/10.1111/joms.12582
Anderson, M. H., & Lemken, R. K. (2023). Citation context analysis as a method for conducting rigorous and
impactful literature reviews. Organizational Research Methods, 26(1), 77-106. https://doi.org/10.1177/
1094428120969905
Antons, D., Breidbach, C. F., Joshi, A. M., & Salge, T. O. (2023). Computational literature reviews: Method,
algorithms, and roadmap. Organizational Research Methods, 26(1), 107-138. https://doi.org/10.1177/
1094428121991230
Barends, E., & Rousseau, D. M. (2018). Evidence-Based Management: How to Use Evidence to Make Better
Organizational Decisions. Kogan Page Limited.
Barnett-Page, E., & Thomas, J. (2009). Methods for the synthesis of qualitative research: A critical review. BMC
Medical Research Methodology, 9, 59-59. https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2288-9-59
Kunisch et al.
35

Bauer, T. N. (2009). The Journal of Management review issue: Celebrating 35 years. Journal of Management,
35(6), 1297-1301. https://doi.org/10.1177/0149206309346842
Baumeister, R. F., & Leary, M. R. (1997). Writing narrative literature reviews. Review of General Psychology,
1(3), 311-320. https://doi.org/10.1037/1089-2680.1.3.311
Bem, D. J. (1995). Writing a review article for Psychological Bulletin. Psychological Bulletin, 118(2), 172-177.
https://doi.org/10.1037/0033-2909.118.2.172
Bergh, D. D., Boyd, B. K., Byron, K., Gove, S., & Ketchen, D. J. (2022). What constitutes a methodological
contribution? Journal of Management, 48(7), 1835–1848. https://doi.org/10.1177/01492063221088235
Beyer, J. M., & Trice, H. M. (1982). The utilization process: A conceptual framework and synthesis of empirical
ﬁndings. Administrative Science Quarterly, 27(4), 591-622. https://doi.org/10.2307/2392533
Boaz, A., Ashby, D., Denyer, D., Egan, M., Harden, A., Jones, D. R., Pawson, R., & Tranﬁeld, D. (2006).
A multitude of syntheses: A comparison of ﬁve approaches from diverse policy ﬁelds. Evidence &
Policy: A Journal of Research, Debate and Practice, 2(4), 479-502. https://doi.org/10.1332/174426
406778881755
Booth, A., Sutton, A., & Papaioannou, D. (2016). Systematic Approaches to a Successful Literature Review.
Sage Publishing.
Breckenridge, J., & Jones, D. (2009). Demystifying theoretical sampling in grounded theory research. Grounded
Theory Review, 8(2), 113-126.
Breslin, D., & Bailey, K. (2020). Expanding the conversation through ‘debate Essays’ and ‘review methodology’
papers. International Journal of Management Reviews, 22(3), 219–221. https://doi.org/10.1111/ijmr.12234
Breslin, D., & Gatrell, C. (2023). Theorizing through literature reviews: The miner-prospector continuum.
Organizational Research Methods, 26(1), 139-167. https://doi.org/10.1177/1094428120943288
Briner, R. B., Denyer, D., & Rousseau, D. M. (2009). Evidence-Based management: Concept cleanup time?
Academy of Management Perspectives, 23(4), 19-32. https://doi.org/10.5465/AMP.2009.45590138
Burrell, G., & Morgan, G. (1979). Sociological Paradigms and Organisational Analysis. Heinemann
Educational Books.
Byrne, Z. S., Peters, J. M., & Weston, J. W. (2016). The struggle with employee engagement: Measures and
construct clariﬁcation using ﬁve samples. Journal of Applied Psychology, 101(9), 1201-1227. https://doi.
org/10.1037/apl0000124
Callahan, J. L. (2014). Writing literature reviews: A reprise and update. Human Resource Development Review,
13(3), 271-275. https://doi.org/10.1177/1534484314536705
Campbell, M., Thomson, H., Katikireddi, S., & Sowden, A. (2015). Assessing Reporting of Narrative Synthesis
of Quantitative Data in Public Health Systematic Reviews [Protocol]. MRC/CSO Social and Public Health
Sciences Unit.
Campbell Collaboration. (2022). Link: https://www.campbellcollaboration.org/about-campbell/vision-mission-
and-principle.html (Accessed: 15-04-2022).
Chalmers, I. (1993). The Cochrane Collaboration: Preparing, maintaining, and disseminating systematic reviews
of the effects of health care. Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences, 703(1), 156-165. https://doi.org/
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1993.tb26345.x
Chalmers, I., Hedges, L. V., & Cooper, H. (2002). A brief history of research synthesis. Evaluation & the Health
Professions, 25(1), 12-37. https://doi.org/10.1177/0163278702025001003
Charles, R. 1997. Turning the tables: How case-oriented research challenges variable-oriented research. In
C. C. Ragin, G. Brochmann, F. Engelstad, R. Kalleberg, A. Leira, & L. Mjøset (Eds.), Comparative
social research, vol. Volume 16: Methodological issues in comparative social science (pp. 27-42).
Emerald Group Publishing Limited.
Chen, V. Z., & Hitt, M. A. (2021). Knowledge synthesis for scientiﬁc management: Practical integration for
complexity versus scientiﬁc fragmentation for simplicity. Journal of Management Inquiry, 30(2), 177-
192. https://doi.org/10.1177/1056492619862051
Clarke, M., & Oxman, A. D. (2001). Cochrane Reviewers Handbook 4.1.4.
36
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)

Cochrane, A. L. (1972). Effectiveness and Efﬁciency: Random Reﬂections on Health Services. Nufﬁeld
Provincial Hospitals Trust.
Cochrane
Library.
(2022).
Link:
www.cochranelibrary.com/about/about-cochrane-reviews
(Accessed:
18-03-2022).
Combs, J. G., Crook, T. R., Ketchen, D. J., & Wright, M. (2021). Entrepreneurship at a crossroads:
Meta-analysis as a foundation and path forward. Strategic Entrepreneurship Journal, 15(3), 343-351.
https://doi.org/10.1002/sej.1404
Combs, J. G., Crook, T. R., & Rauch, A. (2019). Meta-analytic research in management: Contemporary
approaches, unresolved controversies, and rising standards. Journal of Management Studies, 56(1), 1-18.
https://doi.org/doi:10.1111/joms.12427
Cooper, H. M. (1988). Organizing knowledge syntheses: A taxonomy of literature reviews. Knowledge in
Society, 1(1), 104. https://doi.org/10.1007/BF03177550
Cooper, C. L., & Pearson, A. (1999). Editorial. International Journal of Management Reviews, 1(1), iii. https://
doi.org/10.1111/1468-2370.00007_1_1
Corley, K. G., & Gioia, D. A. (2011). Building theory about theory building: What constitutes a theoretical con-
tribution? Academy of Management Review, 36(1), 12-32. https://doi.org/10.5465/amr.2009.0486
Cornelissen, J., Höllerer, M. A., & Seidl, D. (2021). What theory is and can be: Forms of theorizing in organi-
zational scholarship. Organization Theory, 2(3), 1-19. https://doi.org/10.1177/26317877211020328
Cotton, J. L., & Tuttle, J. M. (1986). Employee turnover: A meta-analysis and review with implications for
research. Academy of Management Review, 11(1), 55-70. https://doi.org/10.5465/amr.1986.4282625
Cronin, M. A., & George, E. (2023). The why and how of the integrative review. Organizational Research
Methods, 26(1), 168-192. https://doi.org/10.1177/1094428120935507
Cropanzano, R. (2009). Writing nonempirical articles for journal of management: General thoughts and sugges-
tions. Journal of Management, 35(6), 1304-1311. https://doi.org/10.1177/0149206309344118
Cundill, G. J., Smart, P., & Wilson, H. N. (2018). Non-ﬁnancial shareholder activism: A process model for inﬂu-
encing corporate environmental and social performance. International Journal of Management Reviews,
20(2), 606-626. https://doi.org/10.1111/ijmr.12157
Dada, O. (2018). A model of entrepreneurial autonomy in franchised outlets: A systematic review of the empirical
evidence. International Journal of Management Reviews, 20(2), 206-226. https://doi.org/10.1111/ijmr.12123
Daker-White, G., Panagioti, M., Giles, S., Blakeman, T., Moore, V., Hall, A., Jones, P. P., Wright, O., Shears,
B., Tyler, N., & Campbell, S. (2021). Beyond the control of the care home: A meta-ethnography of qualita-
tive studies of infection prevention and control in residential and nursing homes for older people. Health
Expectations, 1-12. https://doi.org/10.1111/hex.13349
Dasborough, M. T. (2020). Broadening our horizons in 2020! Journal of Organizational Behavior, 41(2), 93-94.
https://doi.org/10.1002/job.2429
Davis, G. F. (2015). Editorial essay: What is organizational research for? Administrative Science Quarterly,
60(2), 179-188. https://doi.org/10.1177/0001839215585725
Davis, M. S. (1971). That’s interesting! Philosophy of the Social Sciences, 1(2), 309-344. https://doi.org/10.
1177/004839317100100211
DeGeest, D. S., & Schmidt, F. L. (2010). The impact of research synthesis methods on industrial–organizational
psychology: The road from pessimism to optimism about cumulative knowledge. Research Synthesis
Methods, 1(3–4), 185-197. https://doi.org/10.1002/jrsm.22
Denyer, D., & Tranﬁeld, D. (2006). Using qualitative research synthesis to build an actionable knowledge base.
Management Decision, 44(2), 213-227. https://doi.org/10.1108/00251740610650201
Denyer, D., & Tranﬁeld, D. (2009). Producing a systematic review. In D. Buchanan, & A. Bryman (Eds.), The
Sage Handbook of Organizational Research Methods (pp. 671-689). Sage Publishing.
Denyer, D., Tranﬁeld, D., & van Aken, J. E. (2008). Developing design propositions through research synthesis.
Organization Studies, 29(3), 393-413. https://doi.org/10.1177/0170840607088020
Kunisch et al.
37

DeSimone, J. A., Köhler, T., & Schoen, J. L. (2018). If it were only that easy: The use of meta-analytic research
by organizational scholars. Organizational Research Methods, 22(4), 867-891. https://doi.org/10.1177/
1094428118756743
Dixon-Woods, M., Agarwal, S., Jones, D., Young, B., & Sutton, A. (2005). Synthesising qualitative and quan-
titative evidence: A review of possible methods. Journal of Health Services Research & Policy, 10(1), 45-53.
https://doi.org/10.1177/135581960501000110
Dobbins, G. H., & Platz, S. J. (1986). Sex differences in leadership: How real are they? Academy of Management
Review, 11(1), 118-127. https://doi.org/10.5465/amr.1986.4282639
Donaldson, L. (1998). The myth of paradigm incommensurability in management studies: Comments by an inte-
grationist. Organization, 5(2), 267-272. https://doi.org/10.1177/135050849852007
Durach, C. F., Kembro, J., & Wieland, A. (2017). A new paradigm for systematic literature reviews in supply
chain management. Journal of Supply Chain Management, 53(4), 67-85. https://doi.org/10.1111/jscm.
12145
Durand, R., Grant, R. M., & Madsen, T. L. (2017). The expanding domain of strategic management research and
the quest for integration. Strategic Management Journal, 38(1), 4-16. https://doi.org/10.1002/smj.2607
Dust, S. B., & Ziegert, J. C. (2016). Multi-Leader teams in review: A contingent-conﬁguration perspective of effec-
tiveness. International Journal of Management Reviews, 18(4), 518-541. https://doi.org/10.1111/ijmr.12073
Dwertmann, D. J. G., & van Knippenberg, D. (2020). Capturing the state of the science to change the state of the
science: A categorization approach to integrative reviews. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 42(2), 104-117.
https://doi.org/10.1002/job.2474
Edmondson, A. C., & McManus, S. E. (2007). Methodological ﬁt in management ﬁeld research. Academy of
Management Review, 32(4), 1155-1179. https://doi.org/10.5465/amr.2007.26586086
Eisenhardt, K. M. (1989). Agency theory: An assessment and review. Academy of Management Review, 14(1), 57-74.
https://doi.org/10.5465/amr.1989.4279003
Ellwood, P., Grimshaw, P., & Pandza, K. (2017). Accelerating the innovation process: A systematic review and
realist synthesis of the research literature. International Journal of Management Reviews, 19(4), 510-530.
https://doi.org/10.1111/ijmr.12108
Elsbach, K. D., & van Knippenberg, D. (2020). Creating high-impact literature reviews: An argument for ‘inte-
grative reviews’. Journal of Management Studies, 57(6), 1277-1289. https://doi.org/10.1111/joms.12581
Elsbach, K. D., & van Knippenberg, D. (2018). The Academy of Management Annals: Looking back, looking
forward. Academy of Management Annals, 12(1), 1-4. https://doi.org/10.5465/annals.2016.0167
Ethiraj, S. K., Gambardella, A., & Helfat, C. E. (2017). Reviews of strategic management research. Strategic
Management Journal, 38(1), 3-3. https://doi.org/10.1002/smj.2606
Evanschitzky, H., & Armstrong, J. S. (2013). Research with in-built replications: Comment and further sugges-
tions for replication research. Journal of Business Research, 66(9), 1406-1408. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
jbusres.2012.05.006
Eysenck, H. J. (1965). The effects of psychotherapy. International Journal of Psychiatry, 1, 99-178. https://
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14252260
Fisch, C., & Block, J. (2018). Six tips for your (systematic) literature review in business and management
research. Management Review Quarterly, 68(2), 103-106. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11301-018-0142-x
Fisher, R. A. (1932). Statistical Methods for Research Workers (4th ed.). Oliver & Boyd.
Fiss, P. C. (2007). A set-theoretic approach to organizational conﬁgurations. Academy of Management Review,
32(4), 1180-1198. https://doi.org/10.5465/amr.2007.26586092
Floyd, S. W. (2009). ‘Borrowing’ theory: What does this mean and when does it make sense in management scholar-
ship? Journal of Management Studies, 46(6), 1057-1058. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-6486.2009.00865.x
Foucault, M. (1985). The Use of Pleasure: History of Sexuality. Vintage Books.
Frank, H., & Hatak, I. (2014). Doing a research literature review. In A. Fayolle & M. Wright (Eds.), How to get
published in the best entrepreneurship journals: A guide to steer your academic career (pp. 94-117). Edward
Elgar.
38
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)

Garﬁeld, E. (1979). The NAS James Murray luck award for excellence in scientiﬁc reviewing. Essays of an
Information Scientist, 4, 127-131.
Gaur, A., & Kumar, M. (2018). A systematic approach to conducting review studies: An assessment of content
analysis in 25 years of IB research. Journal of World Business, 53(2), 280-289. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jwb.
2017.11.003
Gehman, J., Glaser, V. L., Eisenhardt, K. M., Gioia, D., Langley, A., & Corley, K. G. (2018). Finding theory–
method ﬁt: A comparison of three qualitative approaches to theory building. Journal of Management Inquiry,
27(3), 284-300. https://doi.org/10.1177/1056492617706029
Geyskens, I., Krishnan, R., Steenkamp, J.-B. E. M., & Cunha, P. V. (2008). A review and evaluation of
meta-analysis practices in management research. Journal of Management, 35(2), 393-419. https://doi.org/
10.1177/0149206308328501
Glass, G. V. (2000). Education in two worlds: Meta-analysis at 25: A personal history. https://nepc.colorado.
edu/blog/meta-analysis
Glass, G. V., McGaw, B., & Smith, M. L. (1981). Meta-Analysis in Social Research. Sage Publications.
Godfrey, P. C., Hassard, J., O’Connor, E. S., Rowlinson, M., & Ruef, M. (2016). What is organizational history?
Toward a creative synthesis of history and organization studies. Academy of Management Review, 41(4), 590-
608. https://doi.org/10.5465/amr.2016.0040
Gond, J.-P., Cabantous, L., Harding, N., & Learmonth, M. (2016). What do we mean by performativity in orga-
nizational and management theory? The uses and abuses of performativity. International Journal of
Management Reviews, 18(4), 440-463. https://doi.org/10.1177/1094428120935494
Gond, J.-P., Mena, S., & Mosonyi, S. (2020). The performativity of literature reviewing: Constituting the corporate
social responsibility literature through re-presentation and intervention. Organizational Research Methods. https://
doi.org/10.1177/1094428120935494
Gough, D., Thomas, J., & Oliver, S. (2012). Clarifying differences between review designs and methods.
Systematic Reviews, 1(28), 1-9. https://doi.org/10.1186/2046-4053-1-28
Grant-Smith, D., & McDonald, P. (2018). Ubiquitous yet ambiguous: An integrative review of unpaid work.
International Journal of Management Reviews, 20(2), 559-578. https://doi.org/10.1111/ijmr.12153
Grant, M. J., & Booth, A. (2009). A typology of reviews: An analysis of 14 review types and associated meth-
odologies. Health Information & Libraries Journal, 26(2), 91-108. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1471-1842.
2009.00848.x
Greenhalgh, T. (2004). Meta-narrative mapping: A new approach to the systematic review of complex evidence.
In B. Hurwitz, T. Greenhalgh, & V. Skultans (Eds.), Narrative research in health and illness (pp. 349-381).
Blackwell Publishing Ltd.
Greenhalgh, T., & Peacock, R. (2005). Effectiveness and efﬁciency of search methods in systematic reviews of
complex evidence: Audit of primary sources. BMJ, 331(7524), 1064-1065. https://doi.org/10.1136/bmj.
38636.593461.68
Greenhalgh, T., Thorne, S., & Malterud, K. (2018). Time to challenge the spurious hierarchy of systematic over
narrative reviews? European Journal of Clinical Investigation, 48(6), 1-6. https://doi.org/10.1111/eci.12931
Guyatt, G., Cook, D., & Haynes, B. (2004). Evidence based medicine has come a long way. BMJ, 329(7473), 990.
https://doi.org/10.1136/bmj.329.7473.990
Hällgren, M., Rouleau, L., & de Rond, M. (2018). A matter of life or death: How extreme context research
matters for management and organization studies. Academy of Management Annals, 12(1), 111-153.
https://doi.org/10.5465/annals.2016.0017
Hammersley, M. (2001). On ‘systematic’ reviews of research literatures: A ‘narrative’ response to evans & bene-
ﬁeld. British Educational Research Journal, 27(5), 543-554. https://doi.org/10.1080/01411920120095726
Harari, M. B., Parola, H. R., Hartwell, C. J., & Riegelman, A. (2020). Literature searches in systematic reviews and
meta-analyses: A review, evaluation, and recommendations. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 118, 1-11. https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.jvb.2020.10337
Kunisch et al.
39

Hardy, C., & Clegg, S. (1997). Relativity without relativism: Reﬂexivity in post-paradigm organization studies.
British Journal of Management, 8(s1), 5-17. https://doi.org/10.1111/1467-8551.8.s1.2
Hart, C. (1998). Doing a Literature Review: Releasing the Social Science Research Imagination. Sage
Publications Ltd.
Hedges, L. V., & Olkin, I. (1985). Statistical Methods for Meta-Analysis. Academic Press.
Hiebl, M. R. W. (2021). Sample selection in systematic literature reviews of management research.
Organizational Research Methods. https://doi.org/10.1177/1094428120986851
Higgins, J. P., Thomas, J., Chandler, J., Cumpston, M., Li, T., Page, M. J., & Welch, V. A. (Eds.). (2019).
Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions (2nd ed.). John Wiley & Sons.
Hoon, C. (2013). Meta-synthesis of qualitative case studies: An approach to theory building. Organizational
Research Methods, 16(4), 522-556. https://doi.org/10.1177/1094428113484969
Hoon, C., & Baluch, A. M. (2020). The role of dialectical interrogation in review studies: Theorizing from what
we see rather than what we have already seen. Journal of Management Studies, 57(6), 1246-1271. https://doi.
org/10.1111/joms.12543
Huff, A. S. (2009). Designing Research for Publication. Sage Publications.
Hulland, J., & Houston, M. B. (2020). Why systematic review papers and meta-analyses matter: An introduction
to the special issue on generalizations in marketing. Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 48(3),
351-359. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11747-020-00721-7
Hunt, J. G. (1986). Comments from the Editor: The Editor’s swan song. Journal of Management, 12(4), 452-
455. https://doi.org/10.1177/014920638601200401
Hunter, J. E., Ballard, T., Hunter, J., John Edward, H., Schmidt, F. L., & Jackson, G. B. (1982). Meta-Analysis:
Cumulating Research Findings Across Studies. Sage Publications.
Iszatt-White, M., & Kempster, S. (2019). Authentic leadership: Getting back to the roots of the ‘root construct’?
International Journal of Management Reviews, 21(3), 356-369. https://doi.org/10.1111/ijmr.12193
Johnson, P., & Duberley, J. (2000). Understanding Management Research: An Introduction to Epistemology.
Sage Publications, Inc.
Knight, G., Chidlow, A., & Minbaeva, D. (2021). Methodological ﬁt for empirical research in international busi-
ness: A contingency framework. Journal of International Business Studies, 53(1), 39-52. https://doi.org/10.
1057/s41267-021-00476-5
Kraus, S., Breier, M., & Dasí-Rodríguez, S. (2020). The art of crafting a systematic literature review in entre-
preneurship research. International Entrepreneurship and Management Journal, 16(3), 1023-1042. https://
doi.org/10.1007/s11365-020-00635-4
Kraus, S., Mahto, R. V., & Walsh, S. T. (in press). The importance of literature reviews in small business and
entrepreneurship research. Journal of small business management. https://doi.org/10.1080/00472778.2021.
1955128
Krnic Martinic, M., Meerpohl, J. J., von Elm, E., Herrle, F., Marusic, A., & & Puljak, L. (2019). Attitudes of
editors of core clinical journals about whether systematic reviews are original research: A mixed-methods
study. BMJ Open, 9(8), 1-10. https://doi.org/10.1136/bmjopen-2019-029704
Kuhn, T. S. (1962). The Structure of Scientiﬁc Revolutions. University of Chicago Press.
Kuhn, T. S. (1970). The Structure of Scientiﬁc Revolutions (2nd ed.). University of Chicago Press.
Kunisch, S., Bartunek, J., Müller, J., & Huy, Q. (2017). Time in strategic change research. Academy of
Management Annals, 11(2), 1005-1064. https://doi.org/10.5465/annals.2015.0133
Kunisch, S., Menz, M., Bartunek, J. M., Cardinal, L. B., & Denyer, D. (2018). Feature topic at organizational
research methods: How to conduct rigorous and impactful literature reviews? Organizational Research
Methods, 21(3), 519-523. https://doi.org/10.1177/1094428118770750
LePine, J. A., & King, A. W. (2010). Editors’ comments: Developing novel theoretical insight from reviews of existing
theory and research. Academy of Management Review, 35(4): 506-509. https://doi.org/10.5465/amr.35.4.zok506
Levin, A. (2001). The Cochrane Collaboration. Annals of Internal Medicine, 135(4), 309-312. https://doi.org/10.
7326/0003-4819-135-4-200108210-00035
40
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)

Liberati, A., Altman, D. G., Tetzlaff, J., Mulrow, C., Gøtzsche, P. C., Ioannidis, J. P. A., Clarke, M., Devereaux,
P. J., Kleijnen, J., & Moher, D. (2009). The prisma statement for reporting systematic reviews and
meta-analyses of studies that evaluate health care interventions: Explanation and elaboration. Annals of
Internal Medicine, 151(4), W-65 −WW-94. https://doi.org/10.7326/0003-4819-151-4-200908180-00136
Light, R. J., & Pillemer, D. B. (1984). Summing Up: The Science of Reviewing Research. Harvard University Press.
Lincoln, Y. S., & Guba, E. G. (1985). Naturalistic Inquiry. Sage.
Linnenluecke, M. K., Marrone, M., & Singh, A. K. (2019). Conducting systematic literature reviews and bib-
liometric
analyses.
Australian
Journal
of
Management,
45(2),
175-194.
https://doi.org/10.1177/
0312896219877678
Locke, K., & Golden-Biddle, K. (1997). Constructing opportunities for contribution: Structuring intertextual coher-
ence and “problematizing” in organizational studies. Academy of Management Journal, 40(5), 1023-1062.
https://doi.org/10.2307/256926
Macpherson, A., & Jones, O. (2010). Editorial: Strategies for the development of international journal of man-
agement reviews. International Journal of Management Reviews, 12(2), 107-113. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.
1468-2370.2010.00282.x
Massaro, M., Dumay, J., & Guthrie, J. (2016). On the shoulders of giants: Undertaking a structured literature
review in accounting. Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, 29(5), 767-801. https://doi.org/10.
1108/AAAJ-01-2015-1939
McMahan, P., & McFarland, D. A. (2021). Creative destruction: The structural consequences of scientiﬁc cura-
tion. American Sociological Review, 86(2), 341-376. https://doi.org/10.1177/0003122421996323
Meerpohl, J. J., Herrle, F., Antes, G., & von Elm, E. (2012). Scientiﬁc value of systematic reviews: Survey of
editors of core clinical journals. PLOS ONE, 7(5), 1-5. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0035732
Meerpohl, J. J., Herrle, F., Reinders, S., Antes, G., & von Elm, E. (2012). Correction: Scientiﬁc value of sys-
tematic reviews: Survey of editors of core clinical journals. PLOS ONE, 7(10), 1-1. https://doi.org/10.
1371/annotation/b9a9cb87-3d96-47e4-a073-a7e97a19f47c
Menz, M. (2012). Functional top management team members: A review, synthesis, and research agenda. Journal
of Management, 38(1), 45-80. https://doi.org/10.1177/0149206311421830
Menz, M., Kunisch, S., & Collis, D. J. (2015). The corporate headquarters in the contemporary corporation:
Advancing a multimarket ﬁrm perspective. Academy of Management Annals, 9(1), 633-714. https://doi.
org/10.5465/19416520.2015.1027050
Mergen, A., & Ozbilgin, M. F. (2021). Understanding the followers of toxic leaders: Toxic illusion and personal
uncertainty. International Journal of Management Reviews, 23(1), 45-63. https://doi.org/10.1111/ijmr.12240
Merton, R. K. (1967). On Theoretical Sociology. The Free Press.
Miller, C. C., & Cardinal, L. B. (1994). Strategic planning and ﬁrm performance: A synthesis of more than
two decades of research. Academy of Management Journal, 37(6), 1649-1665. https://doi.org/10.2307/
256804
Miller, C. C., Glick, W. H., Wang, Y.-D., & Huber, G. P. (1991). Understanding technology-structure relationships:
Theory development and meta-analytic theory testing. Academy of Management Journal, 34(2), 370-399.
https://doi.org/10.2307/256447
Miller, D., Merrilees, B., & Yakimova, R. (2014). Corporate rebranding: An integrative review of major enablers
and barriers to the rebranding process. International Journal of Management Reviews, 16(3), 265-289. https://
doi.org/10.1111/ijmr.12020
Misangyi, V. F., Greckhamer, T., Furnari, S., Fiss, P. C., Crilly, D., & Aguilera, R. (2017). Embracing causal
complexity: The emergence of a neo-conﬁgurational perspective. Journal of Management, 43(1), 255-282.
https://doi.org/10.1177/0149206316679252
Mowbray, P. K., Wilkinson, A., & Tse, H. H. M. (2015). An integrative review of employee voice: Identifying a
common conceptualization and research agenda. International Journal of Management Reviews, 17(3), 382-
400. https://doi.org/10.1111/ijmr.12045
Kunisch et al.
41

Mulrow, C. D. (1994). Systematic reviews: Rationale for systematic reviews. BMJ, 309(6954), 597-599. https://
doi.org/10.1136/bmj.309.6954.597
NHS Centre for Reviews and Dissemination. (2001). Undertaking Systematic Reviews of Research on
Effectiveness. Crd’s Guidance for Those Carrying out or Commissioning Reviews.
Noblit, G. W., & Hare, R. D. (1988). Meta-Ethnography: Synthesizing Qualitative Studies. Sage.
Palich, L. E., Cardinal, L. B., & Miller, C. C. (2000). Curvilinearity in the diversiﬁcation-performance linkage:
An examination of over three decades. Strategic Management Journal, 21(2), 155-174. https://doi.org/10.
1002/(SICI)1097-0266(200002)21:2<155::AID-SMJ82>3.0.CO;2-2
Palmatier, R. W., Houston, M. B., & Hulland, J. (2018). Review articles: Purpose, process, and structure.
Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 46(1), 1-5. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11747-017-0563-4
Paré, G., Trudel, M.-C., Jaana, M., & Kitsiou, S. (2015). Synthesizing information systems knowledge: A typology
of literature reviews. Information & Management, 52(2), 183-199. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.im.2014.08.008
Parmigiani, A., & King, E. (2019). Successfully proposing and composing review papers. Journal of
Management, 45(8), 3083-3090. https://doi.org/10.1177/0149206319874875
Paul, J., & Criado, A. R. (2020). The art of writing literature review: What do we know and what do we need to
know? International Business Review, 29(4). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ibusrev.2020.101717
Pawson, R. (2002a). Evidence-Based policy: In search of a method. Evaluation, 8(2): 157-181. https://doi.org/
10.1177/1358902002008002512
Pawson, R. (2002b). Evidence and policy and naming and shaming. Policy Studies, 23(3), 211-230. https://doi.
org/10.1080/0144287022000045993
Pawson, R. (2006). Evidence-Based Policy: A Realist Perspective. Sage Publications.
Perreault, W. D., & Leigh, L. E. (1989). Reliability of nominal data based on qualitative judgments. Journal of
Marketing Research, 26(2), 135-148. https://doi.org/10.1177/002224378902600201
Petrosino, A., Boruch, R. F., Soydan, H., Duggan, L., & Sanchez-Meca, J. (2001). Meeting the challenges of
evidence-based policy: The Campbell Collaboration. Annals of the American Academy of Political and
Social Science, 578(1), 14-34. https://doi.org/10.1177/000271620157800102
Petty, M. M., McGee, G. W., & Cavender, J. W. (1984). A meta-analysis of the relationships between individual
job satisfaction and individual performance. Academy of Management Review, 9(4), 712-721. https://doi.org/
10.1509/jppm.19.1.42.16940
Pickering, A. (1994). After representation: Science studies in the performative idiom. PSA: Proceedings of the
Biennial Meeting of the Philosophy of Science Association, 1994(2), 413-419. https://doi.org/10.1086/
psaprocbienmeetp.1994.2.192953
Popay, J., Roberts, H., Sowden, A., Petticrew, M., Arai, L., Rodgers, M., Britten, N., Roen, K., Duffy, S. (2006).
Developing methods for the narrative synthesis of quantitative and qualitative data in systematic reviews of
effects. Guidance on the conduct of narrative synthesis in systematic reviews https://www.lancaster.ac.uk/
media/lancaster-university/content-assets/documents/fhm/dhr/chir/NSsynthesisguidanceVersion1-April2006.pdf
Popper, K. R. (1959). The Logic of Scientiﬁc Discovery. Basic Books.
Post, C., Sarala, R., Gatrell, C., & Prescott, J. E. (2020). Advancing theory with review articles. Journal of
Management Studies, 57(2), 351-376. https://doi.org/10.1111/joms.12549
Ragin, C. C. (2000). Fuzzy-Set Social Science. University of Chicago Press.
Ragin, C. C. (2008). Redesigning Social Inquiry: Fuzzy Sets and Beyond. University of Chicago Press.
Ragin, C. C., & Becker, H. S. (1992). What Is a Case? Exploring the Foundations of Social Inquiry. Cambridge
University Press.
Reichenbach, H. (1938). Experience and Prediction: An Analysis of the Foundations and the Structure of
Knowledge. University of Chicago Press.
Reichenbach, H. (1951). The Rise of Scientiﬁc Philosophy. University of California Press.
Roberts, K. H. (1990). Some characteristics of one type of high reliability organization. Organization Science,
1(2), 160-176. http://www.jstor.org/stable/2635060
42
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)

Rojon, C., Okupe, A., & McDowall, A. (2021). Utilization and development of systematic reviews in manage-
ment research: What do we know and where do we go from here? International Journal of Management
Reviews, 23(2), 191-223. https://doi.org/10.1111/ijmr.12245
Rousseau, D. M. (2006). Is there such a thing as “evidence-based management”? Academy of Management
Review, 31(2), 256-269. https://doi.org/10.5465/amr.2006.20208679
Rousseau, D. M. (Ed.). (2012). The Oxford Handbook of Evidence-Based Management. Oxford University Press.
Rousseau, D. M., Manning, J., & Denyer, D. (2008). Evidence in management and organizational science:
Assembling the ﬁeld’s full weight of scientiﬁc knowledge through syntheses. Academy of Management
Annals, 2, 475-515. https://doi.org/10.1080/19416520802211651
Rowe, F. (2014). What literature review is not: Diversity, boundaries and recommendations. European Journal
of Information Systems, 23(3), 241-255. https://doi.org/10.1057/ejis.2014.7
Rynes, S. L., & Bartunek, J. M. (2017). Evidence-based management: Foundations, development, controversies
and future. Annual Review of Organizational Psychology and Organizational Behavior, 4, 235-261. https://
doi.org/10.1146/annurev-orgpsych-032516-113306
Salandra, R., Criscuolo, P., & Salter, A. (2021). Directing scientists away from potentially biased publications:
The role of systematic reviews in health care. Research Policy, 50(1), 1-13. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.respol.
2020.104130
Schmidt, F. L. (1992). What do data really mean? Research ﬁndings, meta-analysis, and cumulative knowl-
edge in psychology. American Psychologist, 47(10), 1173-1181. https://doi.org/10.1037/0003-066X.47.
10.1173
Schmidt, F. L., & Hunter, J. E. (1977). Development of a general solution to the problem of validity generali-
zation. Journal of Applied Psychology, 62(5), 529-540. https://doi.org/10.1037/0021-9010.62.5.529
Seuring, S., & Gold, S. (2012). Conducting content-analysis based literature reviews in supply chain manage-
ment. Supply Chain Management: An International Journal, 17(5), 544-555. https://doi.org/10.1108/
13598541211258609
Sharma, G., & Bansal, P. (2020). Partnering up: Including managers as research partners in systematic reviews.
Organizational Research Methods. https://doi.org/10.1177/1094428120965706
Shipton, H. (2006). Cohesion or confusion? Towards a typology for organizational learning research. International
Journal of Management Reviews, 8(4), 233-252. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1468-2370.2006.00129.x
Short, J. (2009). The art of writing a review article. Journal of Management, 35(6), 1312-1317. https://doi.org/
10.1177/0149206309337489
Shrivastava, P. (1987). Rigor and practical usefulness of research in strategic management. Strategic
Management Journal, 8(1), 77-92. http://www.jstor.org/stable/2486147
Siddaway, A. P., Wood, A. M., & Hedges, L. V. (2019). How to do a systematic review: A best practice guide for
conducting and reporting narrative reviews, meta-analyses, and meta-syntheses. Annual Review of
Psychology, 70, 747-770. https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-psych-010418-102803
Simsek, Z., Fox, B., & Heavey, C. 2021. Systematicity in organizational research literature reviews: A framework
and assessment. Organizational Research Methods. https://doi.org/10.1177/10944281211008652
Smith, M. L., & Glass, G. V. (1977). Meta-analysis of psychotherapy outcome studies. American Psychologist,
32(9), 752-760. https://doi.org/10.1037//0003-066x.32.9.752
Snyder, H. (2019). Literature review as a research methodology: An overview and guidelines. Journal of
Business Research, 104(November), 333-339. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2019.07.039
Steel, P., Beugelsdijk, S., & Aguinis, H. (2021). The anatomy of an award-winning meta-analysis:
Recommendations for authors, reviewers, and readers of meta-analytic reviews. Journal of International
Business Studies, 52(1), 23-44. https://doi.org/10.1057/s41267-020-00385-z
Stone, D. L., & Rosopa, P. J. (2017). The advantages and limitations of using meta-analysis in human resource
management research. Human Resource Management Review, 27(1): 1-7. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.hrmr.
2016.09.001
Kunisch et al.
43

Suddaby, R. (2010). Construct clarity in theories of management and organization. Academy of Management
Review, 35(3): 346-357. https://doi.org/10.5465/AMR.2010.51141319
Templier, M., & Paré, G. (2015). A framework for guiding and evaluating literature reviews. Communications of
the Association for Information Systems, 37(6), 112-137. https://doi.org/10.17705/1CAIS.03706
Templier, M., & Paré, G. (2018). Transparency in literature reviews: An assessment of reporting practices across
review types and genres in top IS journals. European Journal of Information Systems, 27(5), 503-550. https://
doi.org/10.1080/0960085X.2017.1398880
Thomas, J., & Grifﬁn, R. (1983). The social information processing model of task design: A review of the lit-
erature. Academy of Management Review, 8(4), 672-682. https://doi.org/10.5465/amr.1983.4284679
Thomas, J., & Harden, A. (2008). Methods for the thematic synthesis of qualitative research in systematic
reviews. BMC Medical Research Methodology, 8(45), 1-10. https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2288-8-45
Tippett, L. H. C. (1931). The Methods of Statistics. Williams & Norgate.
Torraco, R. J. (2005). Writing integrative literature reviews: Guidelines and examples. Human Resource
Development Review, 4(3), 356-367. https://doi.org/10.1177/1534484305278283
Torraco, R. J. (2016). Writing integrative literature reviews: Using the past and present to explore the future.
Human Resource Development Review, 15(4), 404-428. https://doi.org/10.1177/1534484316671606
Toye, F., Seers, K., & Barker, K. L. (2017). Meta-ethnography to understand healthcare professionals’ experi-
ence of treating adults with chronic non-malignant pain. BMJ Open, 7(12). https://doi.org/10.1136/bmjopen-
2017-018411
Tranﬁeld, D., Denyer, D., & Smart, P. (2003). Towards a methodology for developing evidence-informed manage-
ment knowledge by means of systematic review. British Journal of Management, 14(3), 207–222. https://doi.
org/10.1111/1467-8551.00375
Tranﬁeld, D., & Starkey, K. (1998). The nature, social organization and promotion of management research:
Towards policy. British Journal of Management, 9(4), 341-353. https://doi.org/10.1111/1467-8551.00103
Tsoukas, H. (2009). A dialogical approach to the creation of new knowledge in organizations. Organization
Science, 20(6), 941-957. https://doi.org/10.1287/orsc.1090.0435
Van Fleet, D. D., Ray, D. F., Bedeian, A. G., Downey, H. K., Hunt, J. G., Grifﬁn, R. W., Dalton, D., Vecchio,
R. P., Kacmar, K. M., & Feldman, D. C. (2006). The Journal of Management’s ﬁrst 30 years. Journal of
Management, 32(4), 477-506. https://doi.org/10.1177/0149206306286715
van Grinsven, M., Heusinkveld, S., & Cornelissen, J. (2016). Translating management concepts: Towards a
typology of alternative approaches. International Journal of Management Reviews, 18(3), 271-289.
https://doi.org/10.1111/ijmr.12106
Villiger, J., Schweiger, S. A., & Baldauf, A. (2022). Making the invisible visible: Guidelines for the coding
process in meta-analyses. Organizational Research Methods, 25(4), 716-740. https://doi.org/10.1177/
10944281211046312
Vogel, R., & Güttel, W. H. (2013). The dynamic capability view in strategic management: A bibliometric
review. International Journal of Management Reviews, 15(4), 426-446. https://doi.org/10.1111/ijmr.12000
Wallace, M., & Wray, A. (2011). Critical Reading and Writing for Postgraduates (2nd ed.). Sage Publications.
Webster, J., & Watson, R. T. (2002). Analyzing the past to prepare for the future: Writing a literature review.
MIS Quarterly, 26(2), xiii −xxiii. https://www.jstor.org/stable/4132319
Weick, K. E. (1989). Theory construction as disciplined imagination. Academy of Management Review, 14(4),
516-531. https://doi.org/10.2307/258556
Weick, K. E. (1995). What theory is not, theorizing is. Administrative Science Quarterly, 40(3), 385-390. https://
doi.org/10.2307/2393789
Whetten, D. A., Felin, T., & King, B. G. (2009). The practice of theory borrowing in organizational studies:
Current issues and future directions. Journal of Management, 35(3), 537-563. https://doi.org/10.1177/
0149206308330556
44
Organizational Research Methods 26(1)

Wickham, M., & Woods, M. (2005). Reﬂecting on the strategic use of CAQDAS to manage and report on the
qualitative research process. The Qualitative Report, 10(4), 687-702. https://doi.org/10.46743/2160-3715/
2005.1827
Wolfswinkel, J. F., Furtmueller, E., & Wilderom, C. P. M. (2013). Using grounded theory as a method for rig-
orously reviewing literature. European Journal of Information Systems, 22(1): 45-55. https://doi.org/10.
1057/ejis.2011.51
Wright, A., & Michailova, S. (in press). Critical literature reviews: A critique and actionable advice.
Management Learning. https://doi.org/10.1177/13505076211073961
Wright, P. M. (2015). Rethinking “contribution”. Journal of Management, 41(3), 765-768. https://doi.org/10.
1177/0149206315569497
Zha, D., Melewar, T. C., Foroudi, P., & Jin, Z. (2020). An assessment of brand experience knowledge literature:
Using bibliometric data to identify future research direction. International Journal of Management Reviews,
22(3), 287-317. https://doi.org/10.1111/ijmr.12226
Zimmermann, A. (2011). Interpersonal relationships in transnational, virtual teams: Towards a conﬁgurational
perspective. International Journal of Management Reviews, 13(1), 59-78. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1468-
2370.2010.00284.x
Author Biographies
Sven Kunisch is an associate professor at Aarhus University (Denmark). He has held permanent and visiting
positions at the University of St. Gallen (Switzerland), Harvard University (USA), Saïd Business School
(Oxford University, UK), VU Amsterdam (The Netherlands), and WU Vienna (Austria). His research interests
center on strategy with a focus on grand societal challenges including digital transformation and climate change.
David Denyer is Professor of Leadership and Organizational Change at Cranﬁeld School of Management. He
leads the Cranﬁeld University multi-disciplinary Resilience Grand Challenge. He is Fellow of the Academy of
Social Sciences and Fellow of the British Academy of Management. His primary interests focus on Resilience,
Organizational Change, Leadership and Evidence-based Management.
Jean M. Bartunek holds the Robert A. and Evelyn J. Ferris chair and is Professor of Management
and Organization at Boston College. She is a past president of the Academy of Management and a past Dean
of the Fellows of the Academy of Management. She has served as an associate editor of the Academy
of Management Review, Academy of Management Learning and Education, and the Journal of Applied
Behavioral Science. Her primary interests center on academic-practitioner relationships and organizational
change, and her most recent edited book is entitled Social Scientists Confronting Global Crises
(Routledge; 2022).
Markus Menz is Professor of Strategic Management and Dean at the Geneva School of Economics and
Management, University of Geneva (Switzerland). He is Director of the Geneva Center for Corporate
Governance. His research focuses on C-suite positions, the design of top management teams and boards of direc-
tors, and corporate strategy.
Laura B. Cardinal is the SmartState Endowed Chair and Director for the Center for Innovation +
Commercialization at the Darla Moore School of Business at the University of South Carolina. She earned
her Ph.D. from the University of Texas at Austin. Cardinal’s expertise focuses on the implementation of inno-
vation goals and strategies.
Kunisch et al.
45
