Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/compag
Review
Computer vision and artiﬁcial intelligence in precision agriculture for grain
crops: A systematic review
Diego Inácio Patrícioa,⁎, Rafael Riederb
a Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation, Embrapa, Passo Fundo, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil
b Graduate Program in Applied Computing (PPGCA), Institute of Exact Sciences and Geosciences (ICEG), University of Passo Fundo (UPF), Passo Fundo, Rio Grande do
Sul, Brazil
A R T I C L E I N F O
Keywords:
Computer vision
Artiﬁcial intelligence
Precision agriculture
Systematic review
2018 MSC:
00-01
99-00
A B S T R A C T
Grain production plays an important role in the global economy. In this sense, the demand for eﬃcient and safe
methods of food production is increasing. Information Technology is one of the tools to that end. Among the
available tools, we highlight computer vision solutions combined with artiﬁcial intelligence algorithms that
achieved important results in the detection of patterns in images. In this context, this work presents a systematic
review that aims to identify the applicability of computer vision in precision agriculture for the production of the
ﬁve most produced grains in the world: maize, rice, wheat, soybean, and barley. In this sense, we present 25
papers selected in the last ﬁve years with diﬀerent approaches to treat aspects related to disease detection, grain
quality, and phenotyping. From the results of the systematic review, it is possible to identify great opportunities,
such as the exploitation of GPU (Graphics Processing Unit) and advanced artiﬁcial intelligence techniques, such
as DBN (Deep Belief Networks) in the construction of robust methods of computer vision applied to precision
agriculture.
1. Introduction
Grain consumption has grown in recent years as well as growing
interest in eﬃcient and sustainable agricultural processes in order to ﬁt
consumer demand. According to data from the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations (FAO) (Food, 2012), only in 2014
were harvested 2.9 billion tonnes of the ﬁve main grains grown in the
world in order of productivity: corn, rice, wheat, soy, and barley.
In agriculture is noteworthy that image processing and computer
vision applications have grown due to reduced equipment costs, in-
creased computational power, and increasing interest in non-destruc-
tive food assessment methods (Mahajan et al., 2015). The use of these
techniques presents advantages when compared with traditional
methods based on manual work, however, there are still a number of
challenges to be overcome (Barbedo, 2016).
The machine vision usage has grown in recent years to meet the
growing demand for fast and accurate methods in monitoring grain
production. An example, according to Zareiforoush et al. (2015) was
the use of such methods in rice production to raise the quality of the
ﬁnal product and to ﬁt food safety criteria in an automated, econom-
ically eﬃcient, and non-destructive way.
Manual methods for grain assessment are challenging even for
people who are trained to perform these tasks. Although, one of the
main diﬃculties is the training of these evaluators. There are scarce
places prepared to train people with the necessary quality. Another
diﬃculty is the time required to carry out such evaluations, which
prevents quickly decision making and large-scale evaluation.
The use of computer vision, near-infrared spectroscopy, magnetic
resonance spectroscopy, electronic nose, spectroscopy using the Fourier
transform in infrared light, X-ray and hyperspectral images are some of
the techniques that can be used to overcome these limitations (Vithu
and Moses, 2016). Such techniques, combined with pattern recognition
algorithms and automatic classiﬁcation tools, have been used to deal
with the challenge of monitor cultures and analyze food quality.
Machine Learning Algorithms enable you to analyze massive vo-
lumes of data, regardless of complexity, quickly and accurately. Its use
is already common in many areas such as fraud detection, credit ana-
lysis, fault prediction models, image recognition patterns, intelligent
spam ﬁlters and product quality analysis. However, considering the
variety of alternatives, it is essential to know the individual char-
acteristics of each method and the best scenario for its use.
One of the main factors in popularizing the machine learning usage
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2018.08.001
Received 21 April 2018; Received in revised form 26 June 2018; Accepted 2 August 2018
⁎ Corresponding author.
E-mail addresses: diego.patricio@embrapa.br (D.I. Patrício), rieder@upf.br (R. Rieder).
URLS: http://www.embrapa.br/trigo (D.I. Patrício), http://www.upf.br (R. Rieder).
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 153 (2018) 69–81
Available online 09 August 2018
0168-1699/ © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
T

was the large-scale use of GPUs (Graphic Processing Units). This type of
specialized hardware initially developed to meet the rendering needs of
digital games, has evolved to expand its use in a generic way in diverse
areas such as industry, health, climate, computational modeling. They
have high parallel processing capacity due to the presence of high
amount of processors cores. Thus, they can oﬀer far superior perfor-
mance when compared to CPUs (Central Process Unit) depending on
the type of process. In addition, the advent of the CUDA programming
language, and the inclusion of dedicated hardware to facilitate the
parallel programming of these processors help developers in building
new applications. In this way, it is possible through the use of GPUs to
obtain better solutions to a given problem in a shorter period of time
(Kirk and Hwu, 2016).
The union of these three components: computer vision, machine
learning, and high-performance computing have been shown to be
promising in solving diﬀerent problems in agriculture. The predictive
potential made possible by deep learning, a technique that has gained
prominence among the others used in machine learning, will cause a
disruptive eﬀect in diﬀerent segments of the traditional industry as well
as agriculture.
Due to the relevance of the subject, several revisions have been
produced over the last years with the objective of analyzing the pub-
lished works available in the literature. Barbedo (2013) presented a
review of digital image processing techniques to detect, quantify and
classify plant diseases from digital images. Those methods include de-
tection, classiﬁcation, and quantiﬁcation. Techniques like support
vector machines, fuzzy logic, and neural networks are also evaluated.
Zareiforoush et al. (2015) published a systematic review of the oppor-
tunities to use computer vision in rice quality inspection. The work
focused on the practical aspects of rice processing like head rice yield
measurement, the degree of milling, ﬁssure identiﬁcation, shape and
size analysis, color analysis, variety classiﬁcation, chalkiness and in-
ternal damage assessment, root estimation, and spikelet analysis. Vithu
and Moses (2016) analyzed published works related to computer vision
systems applied in food grain quality evaluation. Among the applica-
tions analyzed, this review analyses aspects like identiﬁcation of foreign
matter, insect infestation, microbial infection, and discolored grains.
Shah et al. (2016) presents a survey of diﬀerent image processing and
machine-learning techniques used in the identiﬁcation of rice plant
diseases based on images of infected rice plants. The survey is organized
in two main parts. The ﬁrst one deals with image processing tasks like
acquisition,
preprocessing,
segmentation,
and
feature
extraction
whereas the second part deals with machine learning tasks. Barbedo
(2016) addressed the main challenges in automatic disease identiﬁca-
tion. Among the topics discussed are the intrinsic and extrinsic factors
of the image that could aﬀect the performance of the automatic iden-
tiﬁcation techniques. Kamilaris and Prenafeta-Boldú (2018) review the
eﬀorts to employ deep learning techniques in agricultural and food
production challenges pointing out that those methods provide high
accuracy and outperforms commonly used image processing techni-
ques.
In contrast of the reviews presented earlier, this survey aimed to
study how machine vision can be applied to the main cultures of grains
in a broad aspect and which techniques can operate in combination
with artiﬁcial intelligence. The idea is to evaluate, through a systematic
review, challenges and techniques of computer vision and artiﬁcial
intelligence applied in diseases identiﬁcation and pests infestations
detection, grain quality, and phenotyping and phenology. In addition,
this review intends to identify gaps and opportunities in order to be an
updated reference for future works.
2. Methodology
The present systematic review aims to identify in the literature
works related to the use of computer vision and artiﬁcial intelligence
techniques for the ﬁve largest grain crops, considering the total tonnes
Nomenclature
ACM
Association for Computing Machinery
ANN
Artiﬁcial Neural Network
BIC
Border/Interior Classiﬁcation
BOV
Bag of Visual words
BPNN
Back-Propagation Neural Network
CCV
Color Coherence Vector
CDH
Color Diﬀerence Histogram
CNN
Convolution Neural Network
CPU
Central Process Unit
DBN
Deep Belief Network
DBN
Deep Belief Networks
DOM
Degree of Milling
DS
Decorrelation Stretching
DSIFT
Dense Scale-invariant Feature Transform
ExGExR
Excess Green - Excess Red
FAO
Food And Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FV
Fisher Vector
GLCM
Gray Level Co-occurrence Matrix
GPU
Graphic Processing Unit
GW
Gabor Wavelet
HOG
Histogram of Gradients
HSI
Hue, Saturation and Intensity
HSI
Hyperspectral Imaging
ICA
Imperialist Competitive Algorithm
IEEE
Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers
PLS-DA
Partial Least Squares Discriminant Analysis
KNN
k-Nearest Neural Network
LAP
Localized Angular phase
LBP
Local Binary Pattern
LED
Light Emit Diode
MCW
Marker Controlled Watershed
METS
Minimum Error Threshold Selecting
MLP
Multi Layer Perceptron
MSER
Maximally Stable Extremal Regions
NNI
Neural Network Intensity
PBK
Percentage of Broken Kernels
PCA
Principal Component Analysis
PHOW
Pyramid histograms of visual words
iPLS-DA
Interval Partial Least Squares Discriminant Analysis
PNN
Probabilistic Neural Network
PSR
Pitch Segmentation Recognition
RGB
Red, Green and Blue
RMSECV Root Mean Square Errors of Cross Validation
SEH
Strutucture Element Histogram
SIFT
Scale-invariant Feature Transform
SLC
Saliency Color Space
SLIC
Simple Linear Iterative Clustering
SMH
Support Vector Machine, Maximally Stable Extremely
Regions and Histograms of Oriented Gradient Method
SPA
Successive Projection Algorithm
SSLBP
Square Symmetric Local Binary Pattern
SURF
Speeded-Up Robust Features
SVM
Support Vector Machine
VFD
Volume Fractal Dimension
VFDCA
Volume Fractal Dimension with Canonical Analysis
WDH
Wavelet Decomposed Color Histogram
YCbCr
Luma, Blue-diﬀerence and Red-diﬀerence Chroma com-
ponents
D.I. Patrício, R. Rieder
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 153 (2018) 69–81
70

harvested for these crops in 2014 (Food, 2012). In this sense, a protocol
was previously established to identify, evaluate and interpret results
relevant to these research scope using an explicit and systematic
method of literature analysis (Kitchenham and Charters, 2007).
Five databases were used for the analysis of the literature:
ScienceDirect (ScienceDirect, 2018), Scopus (Scopus, 2018), Springer
(Springer Link, 2018), Web of Science (Web of Science, 2018), ACM
(Association for Computing Machinery) (ACM Digital Library, 2018)
and IEEE (Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers) (IEEE Xplore
Digital Library, 2018). For the survey of papers, the following search
expression was deﬁned: (“computer vision” OR “machine vision” OR
“artiﬁcial intelligence” OR “machine learning” OR “deep learning” OR
“GPU” OR “Graphics Processing Unit”) AND (maize OR rice OR wheat
OR soybean OR barley). The time interval used in the research was
deﬁned from 2013 to 2017, that is, last 5 years. The studies considered
in this review were published in English in periodicals, disregarding
chapters of books, proceedings, and summaries of events and seminars.
The evaluation of the work was carried out in three stages: identi-
ﬁcation, screening, and eligibility. In the identiﬁcation stage, the search
expressions are used to obtain the works of interest. The results of the
diﬀerent databases were consolidated for the removal of duplicate
items. In the triage stage, the title and the abstract of the work were
veriﬁed if it meets the area of interest of the present review. At the
eligibility stage, it was assessed whether the paper met the eligibility
criteria and whether the results and the conclusion were satisfactory.
The quality of the description of the technique under review and the
comparison with other similar methods were also considered. For each
eligible study, the following information was obtained: authors, year of
publication, general objectives, description of the method used for
image processing, description of the method used for image classiﬁca-
tion using artiﬁcial intelligence, and if GPU was used.
In the “Identiﬁcation” stage 1578 non-duplicate items were ob-
tained using metadata ﬁltering when this feature was available. In the
next stage, “Screening”, the titles and abstracts of the papers were
analyzed and 183 items were selected for the integral reading and
veriﬁcation of results. In the ﬁnal stage of the systematic review, the
eligibility criteria for the work were veriﬁed. Of the 183 papers ob-
tained in the previous stage, 25 were selected to be included in this
systematic review.
3. A gentle introduction to computer vision and machine learning
3.1. Computer vision
Computer Vision comprehends methods and techniques through
which artiﬁcial vision systems can be constructed and employed in a
reasonable way in practical applications. This area of computer science
includes the software, hardware, and imaging techniques necessary
those methods (Davies, 2005).
Basically, a computer vision system is composed of the following
stages: image acquisition and image processing.
• Image Acquisition: Starts by the transferring of electronic signals
from a sensor to a numerical representation by a device like a
camera (Zareiforoush et al., 2015). Mainly, two types of cameras
distinguished by the form of scanning can be used: area or line.
Conventional or area-scanning cameras generates an image in each
exposure cycle. In contrast, line scan cameras capture only one line
of pixels at a time. For the acquisition of two-dimensional images, it
is necessary to move the object to be captured using a conveyor or
move the camera along a stationary object. The quality of the image
acquired by a computer vision system is directly aﬀected by the il-
lumination used during the acquisition phase. In this way, all the
eﬀort invested in the use of adequate lighting will increase the
performance and reliability of the system, reducing the complexity
of the software used in the processing stage (Hornberg, 2017).
• Image Processing: Involves tasks performed to manipulate digital
images for the purpose of, for example, improving their quality,
reducing noise or correcting lighting problems. In addition, image
analysis refers to the process to diﬀerentiate regions of interest from
the other regions to extract information. Can be divided in low-level,
intermediate-level and high-level processing. Low-level processing,
or preprocessing, includes operations to grayscale adjustment, focus
correction, contrast or sharpness enhancement and noise reduction.
Those operations produce a new image and are employed to im-
prove the image quality or to modify the position of the object of
interest by geometric transformations (Hornberg, 2017). Mean-
while, middle-level processes involve segmentation operations
(partitioning of images in regions), description and classiﬁcation of
objects present in the image. Image segmentation results in a set of
contours or regions. The extraction of attributes that characterize
these regions is necessary to evaluate a series of characteristics of
the region of interest. For example, the ellipse parameters allow you
to determine the orientation and size of the region. The bounding
box allows the calculation of the height and width of the region of
interest (Schaeﬀel, 2017). Filters such as Sobel, Laplacian, and La-
placian of Gaussian can be used to determine regions where abrupt
changes in intensity occur in the image. The Gabor ﬁlter is selective
for elements in the image within a certain range of orientation and
frequency. Haar type ﬁlters consist of adjacent rectangular regions
that are balanced where the mean value of the ﬁlter is zero and
invariant to illumination changes. The purpose of edge detection is
to produce a binary image where nonzero values denote the pre-
sence of an edge in the image. Detectors may optionally also return
other information such as scale and orientation relative to an edge.
Some examples of edge detectors are Canny, Harris, and SIFT. The
SIFT (Scale Invariant Feature Transform) detector is a method for
identifying points of interest. It associates scale and orientation in-
formation for each point resulting from the detection process
(Prince, 2012). High-level processes, or image classiﬁcation, involve
the recognition and classiﬁcation of regions of interest that are
usually performed by statistical classiﬁers or neural networks.
3.2. Machine learning
Machine learning deals with methods and techniques for computa-
tional applications capable of modifying or adapting their actions, in
order to make them more precise. It is possible to classify learning al-
gorithms in the following categories: supervised learning, unsupervised
learning, reinforcement learning, and evolutionary learning.
Supervised learning algorithms are those that start from a set of
correct answers (training set) to generalize and respond correctly to all
possible inputs. In contrast, unsupervised learning algorithms compare
inputs to each other to identify similarities in order to classify them into
categories. Reinforcement learning algorithms can be classiﬁed as an
intermediary stage between supervised and unsupervised. The algo-
rithm is informed when it responds incorrectly to a question, but this
does not happen when it responds correctly. You have to explore the
diﬀerent answers until the correct answers are found. Finally, evolu-
tionary learning models the learning process of microorganisms, which
consists of adapting to increase the chances of surviving and reprodu-
cing in the environment in which they live. Both regression and clas-
siﬁcation problems can be treated with machine learning (Marsland,
2014).
The machine learning process consists of the following steps
(Marsland, 2014):
• Data Preparation and Acquisition: Initial step that consists in
obtaining the appropriate data that contains characteristics to be
considered in learning. In general, learning algorithms require a
large amount of data. It is also important to note that the amount of
data is a factor to be considered. Balancing the demand for large
D.I. Patrício, R. Rieder
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 153 (2018) 69–81
71

amounts of data, preferably without much noise, with the compu-
tational cost that increases proportionally with the amount of data is
a relevant point to consider.
• Selecting Characteristics of Interest: is to identify the most sig-
niﬁcant characteristics for the problem that will be addressed.
• Algorithm Selection: Consist into select the most appropriate al-
gorithm to treat the problem being studied.
• Parameters Selection: Some algorithms need to be tuned by
parameters that require experimentation to be deﬁned.
• Training: Given a set of inputs, the algorithm, and the parameters,
the training consists of the construction of the computational model
that will be used in the prediction of the answers to new data.
• Rating: The system needs to be evaluated for its accuracy for the
data it has been trained.
3.2.1. Support Vector Machines
SVM (Support Vector Machines) is a non-probabilistic linear classiﬁer
that constructs a decision threshold with the greatest possible distance
between the example points. A classic SVM classiﬁer is able to classify
the points of the input set into two possible classes. Separation
thresholds, although linear, have the capacity to incorporate data into a
higher space. In this way, it is possible to create linear separators even if
in the original space of the inputs it is impossible to deﬁne it linearly.
Finally, SVM is a non-parametric method. Therefore, it has the ﬂex-
ibility to represent complex functions while at the same time being
resilient to overﬁtting (Russell and Norvig, 2009).
3.2.2. Neural networks
A neural network is composed of connected nodes by directed links
with an associated weight that determines the strength and the signal of
the connection. Weights are the primary form of long-term storage in
neural networks and learning algorithms can usually update these
weights. Input and output nodes are those with connections to the ex-
ternal world. Each node is independent of the others and, thus, can
perform its calculations from only its input values and respective
weights. Each unit receives the values from the incoming links, calcu-
lates the activation level and, when activated, sends the signal to all its
outgoing links (Russell and Norvig, 2009).
A feedforward Neural Network has connections in only one
direction and can be represented as a directed acyclic graph. Each node
receives inputs from the upstream nodes and delivers the output to the
downstream nodes without cycles. This kind of network represents a
function and has no internal state except the link weights. In contrast, a
recurring neural network feeds the input nodes with their outputs. In
this way, the network forms a dynamic system that may or may not
reach a steady state (Russell and Norvig, 2009).
Neural networks are organized in layers where each unit receives
input from only the nodes of the next higher layer. In networks that
have one or more layers, there are called hidden units for those that are
not directly connected to the network output. With only a suﬃciently
large hidden layer it is possible to represent any continuous function
with arbitrary accuracy. With two layers, even non-continuous func-
tions can be represented. For the learning algorithm, a set of examples
and a neural network are necessary. The ﬁnal will result in a trained
network with adjusted weights capable of processing an input and
producing an output with the computed data class (Russell and Norvig,
2009).
3.2.3. Deep learning
Deep Learning Networks diﬀer from conventional Neural Networks
in the sense that they have more nodes, more complex means of layer
interconnection, they require strong computational power for their
training and they have automatic extraction of the parameters.
The four main architectures used are: Unsupervisioned Pretrained
Networks, Convolutional Neural Networks, Recurrent Neural Network,
Recursive Neural Network. These types of networks are already used in
the solution of various problems such as text-to-speech conversion, cite
fan2014synthesis, language identiﬁcation (Sak et al., 2014), translation
(Sutskever et al., 2014), signal processing (Marchi et al., 2014), auto-
matic recognition of characters (Breuel et al., 2013), automatic gen-
eration of subtitles (Zaremba et al., 201), among others. Mainly, in
image classiﬁcation, convolutional neural networks are the most used
because of your nature. The primary purpose of a Convolutional Neural
Network or Convet is to learn data characteristics from convolution
operations. Therefore, this type of network is better suited for pattern
recognition in images.
LeNet-5 was one of the ﬁrst proposed architectures for a ConvNet
(Lecun et al., 1998). This network architecture consists of three types of
Table 1
Resume of the eligible papers into systematic review
#
References
Year
Group
Crop
Device
Target
Classiﬁer
1
Chung et al. (2016)
2016
Diseases
Rice
Scanner
Seedlings
SVM
2
Shrivastava et al. (2016)
2016
Diseases
Soybean
Camera
Leaves
SVM
3
Liu et al. (2016)
2016
Diseases
Wheat
Camera
Field
SVM
4
Pires et al. (2016)
2016
Diseases
Soybean
Scanner
Leaves
SVM
5
Han et al. (2015)
2015
Diseases
Wheat
Camera
Field
SVM
6
Boniecki et al. (2014)
2014
Diseases
Wheat
Scanner
X-ray
MLP
7
Sabanci et al. (2017)
2017
Quality
Wheat
Camera
Kernels
ANN
8
Sun et al. (2016)
2016
Quality
Rice
Camera
Kernels
DBN
9
Liu et al. (2016)
2016
Quality
Rice
Camera
Kernels
SVM
10
Shrestha et al. (2016)
2016
Quality
Wheat
Camera
Kernels
ANN
11
Singh and Chaudhury (2016)
2016
Quality
Rice
Camera
Kernels
BPNN
12
Olgun et al. (2016)
2016
Quality
Wheat
Camera
Kernels
SVM
13
Zareiforoush et al. (2015)
2015
Quality
Rice
Camera
Kernels
Fuzzy
14
Kezhu et al. (2014)
2014
Quality
Soybean
Camera
Kernels
BPNN
15
Sun et al. (2014)
2014
Quality
Rice
Camera
Kernels
SVM
16
Ebrahimi et al. (2014)
2014
Quality
Wheat
Scanner
Kernels
ANN
17
Serranti et al. (2013)
2013
Quality
Wheat
Hyperspectral
Kernels
iPLS-DA
18
Naik et al. (2017)
2017
Phenotyping
Soybean
Camera
Plant
SVM
19
Sadeghi-Tehran et al. (2017)
2017
Phenology
Wheat
Camera
Field
SVM
20
Zhu et al. (2016)
2016
Phenology
Wheat
Camera
Field
SVM
21
Lu et al. (2016)
2016
Phenology
Maize
Camera
Field
ANN
22
Lu et al. (2015)
2015
Phenology
Maize
Camera
Field
SVM
23
Guo et al. (2015)
2015
Phenology
Rice
Camera
Field
SVM
24
Kurtulmuş and Kavdir (2014)
2014
Phenology
Maize
Camera
Field
SVM
25
Romualdo et al. (2014)
2014
Phenology
Maize
Scanner
Leaves
Bayes
D.I. Patrício, R. Rieder
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 153 (2018) 69–81
72

layers: convolutional layers, subsampling layers, and fully connected
layers. Initially, LeNet-5 was used to recognize hand-written digits re-
presented by two-dimensional 32 × 32-pixel images. The last layer
contains the nodes that correspond to the probabilities of the original
image belonging to one of the ten digit classes (Kirk and Hwu, 2016).
Other network architectures are described in the literature: AlexNet
(2012) (Krizhevsky et al., 2012), ZF Net (2013) (Zeiler and Fergus,
2013), VGG Net (2014) (Simonyan and Zisserman, 2015), GoogLeNet
(2015) (Szegedy et al., 2015), Microsoft ResNet (2015) (He et al., 2016)
are some of the examples. Some R-CNN (Region Based CNNs) networks
are intended to detect objects by identifying regions that are most likely
to contain the object to be identiﬁed. In this group are R-CNN (2013)
(Girshick et al., 2014), Fast R-CNN (2015) (Girshick, 2015) and Faster
R-CNN (2015) (Ren et al., 2015). From these architectures it is still
possible to use them in combination to obtain more expressive results.
4. Computer vision and agriculture
The papers were grouped into three groups: diseases and pests, grain
quality and phenology and phenotyping. Table 1 shows a summary of the
main information about each paper.
4.1. Grain diseases and insect infestations
Grain production is susceptible to a number of adverse factors re-
lated to the occurrence of diseases or infestation by pests and insects.
Such factors may trigger negative eﬀects on crop development or re-
duce grain quality and, consequently, its market price.
The detection and accurate identiﬁcation of diseases in grain crops
have great importance for their eﬀective management in order to
guarantee productive and sustainable agriculture. Rapid identiﬁcation
in a pest infestation situation, for example, ensures that the response
can be eﬃciently delivered and the necessary control measures can be
taken.
The diagnosis of plant diseases is usually performed visually and
may present ﬂaws due to its laborious and subjective nature. In this
sense, work was carried out with the aim of proposing methods of
computer vision with artiﬁcial intelligence to automate the process of
detection of diseases in plants. The automatic detection of diseases from
images includes, among other factors, the determination of the most
discriminative characteristics for the eﬃcient recognition of the dis-
ease. Thus, you can use classiﬁcation models to categorize an image
into a healthy or sick class. However, when one considers the detection
by images obtained in the ﬁeld, one of the challenges is the presence of
complex backgrounds and, consequently, the presence of interferences
in the scene like occlusion, soil, plants of other species, specular re-
ﬂection, among others (Barbedo, 2016).
In case of pest detection, traps can be used to improve the quality of
the image segmentation and accurate the process to count the insects
being in the scene. However, this method requires the previous man-
agement of that species. In addition, the coloration of some species are
very close to those of the plant and, in this case, make it diﬃcult to
identify them. Finally, it is important to also emphasize the variability
of the size and shape of these insects due to their species or stage of
development.
4.1.1. Bakanae detection in rice crops
Chung et al. (2016) proposed a method to classify three-week-old
seedlings in healthy and infected with Bakanae disease.Bakanae is a rice
(Oryza sativa L.) disease caused primarily by the fungus Fusarium fuji-
kuroi. When infected, plants exhibit color changes in the leaves (they
become more yellowish), or morphological abnormalities such as stem
elongation, stunting, or a greater angle between the leaves and the
stem. The pathogen infects the grains in the ﬁelds and, during storage,
multiplies itself by contaminating the seeds and spreading in the crop.
The symptoms present great complexity and variability as they vary
according to the resistance of the plant. In this way, they make detec-
tion through computer vision a challenge. The presented method uses
plant images obtained using a scanner. The morphological and color
attributes are quantiﬁed and the anatomical points of the plants are
automatically identiﬁed. The only exception is the stem base that needs
manual identiﬁcation. In the preprocessing step, the background is re-
moved using a thresholding operation. In the processing stage, mor-
phological and coloring attributes are obtained to describe the devel-
opment of the plant and indirectly provide its physiological status. SVM
(Support Vector Machine) is used for the classiﬁcation process. Two
classiﬁers arranged in cascade are used to detect and determine the
health condition of the plant. The ﬁrst classiﬁer is responsible for dis-
tinguishing between healthy and contaminated plants. The second
classiﬁer has the function of distinguishing the diﬀerent levels of con-
tamination.
4.1.2. Computer vision methods aptitude to detect leaf diseases in soybeans
Shrivastava et al. (2016) explored the aptitude of computer vision
methods to detect and categorize soybean plant foliar diseases. In the
study, the following descriptors were analyzed: histogram; WDH (Wa-
velet Decomposed Color Histogram); BIC (Border/Interior Classiﬁca-
tion), which consists of a compact method to characterize each pixel of
the image as border or interior; the CCV (Color Coherence Vector),
which allows the comparison of images using their color density; the
CDH (Color diﬀerence histogram), which allows the visual appearance
of the images to be coded; the LBP (Local binary pattern) descriptor,
which is used to encode image texture information; the SSLBP de-
scriptor (Square Symmetric Local Binary Pattern), similar to the pre-
vious one, however, aiming to reduce the size of the LBP; the LAP
(Localized angular phase), which calculates the magnitude and the
phase of the Fourier transform of the neighbors of each pixel and serves
to encode texture information; and the SEH (Strutucture Element His-
togram), which encodes both color and texture information. For the
classiﬁcation, three models were analyzed: SVM, KNN (k-Nearest
Neural Network) and PNN (Probabilistic Neural Network). Among the
main results, it can be highlighted that BIC, histogram, and WDH pre-
sented the best performances in the detection of soybean leaf diseases
analyzed in the study. The CDH and LAP descriptors were more robust
for unfocused images. Finally, among the classiﬁcation methods uti-
lized, the best performance was obtained by KNN and SVM.
4.1.3. Aphids detection in wheat
Aphids are one of the pests that aﬀect the wheat crop. These insects
feed on the sap of the wheat phloem aﬀecting its development and can
transmit a series of viral pathologies. Currently, the most widely used
method for identifying and counting is still the manual. In order to
monitor populations of aphids and to identify the species present in the
ﬁeld, Liu et al. (2016) proposed the SMH method (Support Vector
Machine, Maximally Stable Extremely Regions and Histograms of Or-
iented Gradient Method). The method combines the use of SVM, the
MSER (Maximally Stable Extremal Regions) algorithm, and HOG (His-
togram of Gradients). The images used for training the classiﬁcation
model were obtained using conventional cameras positioned at a lateral
angle to the plants during the period between the elongation and
emergency stages. In the pre-processing step, ﬁlters are used to enhance
contrast and reduce noise. In this step, the use of the MSER algorithm
aims to simplify the background of the images. In the extraction step of
the image attributes, the HOG descriptor is obtained to be used as a
parameter for classiﬁcation using SVM for the presence or absence of
aphids. The proposed method was tested with diﬀerent densities of
aphids, color or location in the plant. The SMH was compared with ﬁve
other methods commonly used in the detection of aphids using three
species that diﬀer in their coloration. The results demonstrated superior
performance for aphid detection.
D.I. Patrício, R. Rieder
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 153 (2018) 69–81
73

4.1.4. Local descriptors to detect soybeans diseases
Pires et al. (2016) proposed a method of automated disease detec-
tion in soybean. The method is based on local descriptors and the BOV
(Bag of Values) method for encoding the input vectors for the classiﬁer.
The leaves were obtained in soybean plantations in Brazil. After col-
lected in the ﬁeld those leaves were scanned in order to generate
images. The use of local descriptors proves to be robust to occlusion and
do not require segmentation of the image to be used. The method
evaluated ﬁve diﬀerent descriptors: SURF (Speeded-Up Robust Fea-
tures), HOG, DSIFT (Dense Scale-invariant Feature Transform), SIFT
(Scale-invariant Feature Transform) and PHOW (Pyramid histograms of
visual words). For the classiﬁcation, two classes were deﬁned, sick and
healthy, in an SVM classiﬁer.
4.1.5. Detection and evaluation of leaf spot severity in wheat
Han et al. (2015) proposed a computer vision method to auto-
matically identify diseases that cause leaf spot in rice. The images were
obtained in the ﬁeld, so it was necessary to treat the background ob-
jects. Due to the noise present in the images, it is critical ﬁrst to extract
the target plant and then to identify which disease patterns are present
in its leaves. For extraction of the attributes of the image, the ﬁrst op-
eration performed is the segmentation. To separate the target sheet
from the background, the authors used the MCW (Marker-Controlled
Watershed) algorithm. Once the target sheet is identiﬁed, it is necessary
to obtain the characteristics of the disease that may be present in it. For
this purpose, the SLIC algorithm (Simple Linear Iterative Clustering)
Superpixels was used because it groups the pixels of the image into
small regions with some meaning. The attributes selected for classiﬁ-
cation are texture (obtained using GLCM (Gray Level Co-occurrence
Matrix)), gradient, Gabor, and attributes inspired by biology. One of the
reasons for including gradient features was the nonuniformity of illu-
mination of the artifacts. The classiﬁcation model adopted for the di-
agnosis of diseases was the SVM. For the severity measurement, the
Dice coeﬃcient was used. The results were compared with a simple
neural network. In all cases, the proposed method presented better
performance.
4.1.6. Sitophilus granarius detection in stored wheat grains
Another pest that can cause extensive damage to stored grains in
silos is the Sitophilus granarius, also known as “granary weevil”.
Detection of this type of infestation can be diﬃcult and usually requires
the presence of a specialist, increasing the time and cost of this type of
assessment. Boniecki et al. (2014) proposes to identify the presence of
this insect in grains. The method consists of using images obtained with
a low-energy X-ray apparatus, in order to identify internally damaged
grains. The grains are arranged on X-ray plates to produce the images.
These are initially binarized using the thresholding operation. Con-
ventional methods of image analysis are used to identify some attri-
butes such as grain circumference, area, vertical and horizontal size.
From these values, it is possible to calculate the attributes that will be
used as input for the classiﬁcation model. The eight attributes selected
by the authors were: non-dimensional shape coeﬃcient, Feret coeﬃ-
cient, two proportions of circularity, Malinowska coeﬃcient, area,
circumference, and cultivar. The neural model selected for classiﬁcation
is the MLP (Multi-Layer Perceptron). The conﬁguration of the network
that presented the best results was the one that uses three layers. This
conﬁguration has obtained the highest number of properly sized da-
maged grains. The sensitivity analysis of the neural network helped to
identify the order of importance of grain identiﬁcation characteristics.
Cultivation, Feret coeﬃcient, and area of the grain were the most im-
portant for the detection of the presence of infestation in wheat grain.
4.2. Grain quality
Grain quality is a complex phenomenon inﬂuenced by several ge-
netic and environmental factors. Conventional optical techniques
adopted by the industry for grading wheat grains usually present high
misclassiﬁcation error rates(Serranti et al., 2013). In this sense, the use
of machine learning techniques for image classiﬁcation has been
highlighted in recent years as a way to build more accurate and in-
telligent classiﬁcation systems. However, unlike other industrial pro-
ducts, the size, color, and texture of agricultural products are not de-
ﬁned
by
a
single
mathematical
function
making
the
task
of
classiﬁcation challenging for computer vision systems.
Computer vision systems are an alternative to manually inspecting
grain samples. Information on grain type and quality are required at
various stages during the grain processing process. Contrary to ex-
pectations, however, visual inspection of these products is tedious and
time-consuming. The operator usually loses concentration after hours of
work due to fatigue, tired vision or inadequate lighting. Thus, an au-
tomatic classiﬁer can prevent human errors in the quality assessment
process, making it an alternative to manual inspection (Singh and
Chaudhury, 2016).
4.2.1. Classiﬁcation of wheat grains using Artiﬁcial Neural Network
Sabanci et al. (2017) presented a computer vision system that uses a
simpliﬁed classiﬁcation approach with a high index of accuracy. The
aim of the system is to classify wheat grains of the species Triticum
aestivum and Triticum durum according to their visual characteristics
using an artiﬁcial neural network of the MLP type. The images are
obtained by a camera at an angle perpendicular to the grain. Then those
images are converted to grayscale, binarized using the Otsu method and
segmented using the thresholding operation. The characteristics of size,
color and texture are captured for each grain, with the purpose of
serving as input to the classiﬁcation method. In the study, seven visual
characteristics of the grain were selected: length, length and width
ratio, green, blue, green ratio, homogeneity, and entropy. The last two,
concerning texture, are obtained using the GLCM method. The ANN
(Artiﬁcial Neural Network) based on MLP with three layers was able to
classify in bread wheat and durum wheat.
4.2.2. Recognition of fungal colonies in rice using computer vision and
machine learning techniques
Sun et al. (2016) investigated the potential of using computer vision
with conventional and deep learning techniques of machine learning
applied with detection of mould colonies in unhulled paddy caused by
microorganisms such as Aspergillus and Penicillium. The system for ob-
taining the images consists of a camera, two LED strips, a camera holder
and a holder for the sample on a black base. In the pre-processing step,
the black background of the images is removed and the size of images
normalized. The center pixel coordinates are calculated to eliminate
interference from the plate used for sample deposition. The identiﬁca-
tion of the infected regions is done through the color information of the
image. For this, two images of 512 × 512 pixels are generated: one in
grayscale and one in RGB. The vector of 64 color attributes is obtained
from the 16-level histogram for the grayscale image and for each of the
color channels of the RGB image. The areas where the fungus is present
in the sample images do not have a uniform color, texture or shape. Due
to this fact, the segmentation method using threshold is useless for the
segmentation of the areas of interest. In order to deal with these lim-
itations, the PSR (Pitch Segmentation Recognition) method was
adopted for segmentation. The use of the SPA (Successive Projection
Algorithm) algorithm was evaluated to reduce the number of attributes
of the images from 64 to 14. The attributes number is validated using
the RMSECV (Root Mean Square Errors of Cross Validation) method.
Classiﬁcation methods such as SVM, BPNN (Back-Propagation Neural
Network), CNN (Convolution Neural Network) and DBN (Deep Belief
Network) models are compared. Although the DBN method presents the
best results in the study, the SVM model can obtain good results for
diﬀerent classiﬁcation tasks in agriculture since the values obtained are
slightly lower than the DBN model. The SVM model depends on the
support vectors that are extracted from the input data. Within the
D.I. Patrício, R. Rieder
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 153 (2018) 69–81
74

number of training samples, the number of support vectors of the SVM
method also increases, raising a complexity of the model. Finally, the
BPNN model shown inappropriate when the number of input variables
was large.
4.2.3. Shadow-based method to quantify the percentage of ﬁlled rice grains
As stated by Liu et al. (2016) rice grain ﬁlling is a critical factor in
determining grain yield. They presented a method for calculating the
percentage of rice grains ﬁlling using shades. The method uses four
light sources to generate grain shadow in four directions. The diﬀerence
between the shadows of the ﬁlled grains and the unﬁlled grains is
evaluated through image analysis and an SVM classiﬁer. The system
was designed to be used as an online assessment method. For this, a
grain transport belt is used that allows the analysis at a speed of 40 to
50 grains/s. In the pre-processing step, the RGB images of the seeds
with the shadows in the four directions are segmented using binariza-
tion. From the binarized image, you can extract information such as
grain area and shadow area. Plus, two measurements are also de-
termined: the ratio of the circumscribed rectangular area of the shadow
and the ratio of the distance between the centroid and the circum-
scribed rectangle of the shadow. Both measurements can be used to
distinguish ﬁlled grains from unﬁlled grains. The classiﬁcation model
adopted is the SVM. The results indicated that the method is reliable
and can be used as a way of rapid evaluation of rice grains. As the ﬁlled
grains are thicker than the unﬁlled ones, the shade of these will be
wider. In this way, it is possible to use a sorter to separate the grains.
4.2.4. A
computer
vision
approach
using
two
cameras
to
identify
germinated wheat grains
High moisture before or during harvesting can lead to premature
germination of wheat grain. This condition causes a reduction in grain
quality. Shrestha et al. (2016) propose a computer vision system that
uses two cameras to separate and identify germinated wheat grains in
controlled space. The system allows classiﬁcation into three categories:
healthy grains, damaged by germination and severely damaged by
germination. The image acquisition system consists of two cameras: one
positioned at the top and one positioned at the base. The segmentation
technique adopted is MCW. The Watershed algorithm always produces
closed object contours in addition to being computationally feasible.
The approach of the use of markers aims to deal with the problem of the
exaggerated segmentation of objects due to nature and the noise pre-
sent in the images. It is also important to avoid grains not being over-
lapped to improve the accuracy of the grading method. The images
produced by the two cameras are used to extract the morphological and
non-morphological characteristics of the grains. The morphological
characteristics used are perimeter, elliptic eccentricity, length of the
main axis and relation of the length of the convex hull of the grain with
its perimeter. The non-morphological characteristics used are RGB
color, grayscale standard deviation, and texture. Grains damaged by
germination usually have a yellow, green or dark brown coloration and
may also have a whitish coloration. Such color changes are not present
in healthy grains. To improve the accuracy of the classiﬁcation method,
it is important to avoid overlapping grain in the image. For classiﬁca-
tion, an artiﬁcial neural network was used that receives the 16 input
parameters.
4.2.5. Classiﬁcation of rice grains using BPNN and wavelets
Singh and Chaudhury (2016) propose the use of BPNN neural net-
works and decomposition using wavelets to classify rice grains. The
approach uses two types of cameras to acquire the images: the ﬁrst,
present in cell phones that have a resolution of 0.3 megapixels and the
second, a conventional point-and-shoot that has resolution of 12-
megapixel. The images are obtained under the condition of natural light
in the morning to reduce shadow interference in the image. The ex-
traction of attributes from the images is performed using three ap-
proaches. The ﬁrst consists of extracting 18 color attributes (RGB and
HSI). The second and third approaches are to use the GLCM method and
the wavelet-based decomposition for each color channel (R, G and B),
respectively. The GLCM method is intended to handle texture attri-
butes. These refer to a connected set of pixels that occur repeatedly in
an image and are related to the intensity variation on a surface. For the
description of texture attributes, the most accepted models are those
based on the use of co-occurrences. In the discrete wavelet transform,
an image signal can be analyzed using a set of ﬁlters followed by a
decimation operation. The classiﬁcation model uses a four-layer BPNN
neural network. The study also compares the proposed method with
other classiﬁers: SVM, k-nearest neighbor and naive Bayes. Among the
other results obtained, we can highlight three. The ﬁrst shows that it
was necessary to use an adaptive thresholding function to ensure the
convergence of the network. The second one points out that the ap-
proach that uses GLCM table demands greater processing than the one
based on wavelets. And, ﬁnally, the use of BPNN presented better re-
sults when compared to the other methods.
4.2.6. Wheat grains classiﬁcation using DSIFT and SVM
Olgun et al. (2016) evaluate the performance of using DSIFT tech-
nique in conjunction with an SVM classiﬁer to classify wheat grains in
40 diﬀerent species. SIFT is a computer vision algorithm to represent
and identify objects with some diﬀerentiated local attribute. The DSIFT
algorithm is derived from the SIFT algorithm. The main diﬀerence be-
tween them is that DSIFT uses a sampling procedure to reduce the cost
of SIFT. Initially, the authors approach extracts the DSIFT attributes
from the image. Following, the method of k-means is used on this set of
attributes. Finally, the BOW model is constructed from the histogram of
the clustering attributes obtained in the previous step. The objects of
interest are classiﬁed, using the BOW model, through an SVM classiﬁer.
Prior to constructing the BOW model, the size of the set of attributes
obtained by DSIFT should be reduced to optimize processing and im-
prove accuracy. In this sense, the method of k-means clustering was
applied.
4.2.7. Classiﬁcation of rice using a fuzzy inference system
Zareiforoush et al. (2015) have used computer vision and fuzzy
inference methods in the construction of a decision support system for
quality classiﬁcation of polished rice. The system uses two quality in-
dices for the classiﬁcation of images captured in a computer vision
system: the degree of milling (DOM) and the percentage of broken
kernels (PBK). The approach captures the images in RGB and segments
the rice grains using thresholding. The PBK measure is obtained from
the grain length in the images. The DOM measurement consists of
evaluating the gray gradient. By the intensity of the grayscale, it is
possible to evaluate the amount of light passing through a sample of
rice. The greater the amount of bran remaining on the grain surface, the
lower its translucency. To evaluate the amount of light, the co-occur-
rence matrix of a gray gradient is extracted from the images. This
matrix shows the intensity distribution on a grayscale for each pixel of
an image and what are the spatial relationships to each other. The DOM
and PBK attributes are used as input to the Fuzzy Inference system. The
join function maps the input values into ﬁve classes: very low, low,
medium, high, and very high. The combination of the ﬁve classes of
each attribute gave rise to 25 fuzzy rules of evaluation. In the de-
fuzziﬁcation step, the method of calculating the area centroid is used to
obtain the value of the sample quality. The system was superior when
compared to the expert judgment.
4.2.8. Identiﬁcation of diseases in soybean seeds using BPNN
Kezhu et al. (2014) proposed a machine vision method combined
with BPNN to identify diseases in soybean seeds such as soybean fro-
geye, mildewed soybean, worm-eaten soybean and damaged grains.
The acquisition of the images is performed from a speciﬁc device for the
experiment.
This
device
consists
of
a
box
of
size
100 cm × 30 cm × 30 cm that does not allow the penetration of outside
D.I. Patrício, R. Rieder
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 153 (2018) 69–81
75

light. At its base is placed a black fabric that prevents light reﬂection.
The system has a light-coupled ring-shaped light source capable of
distributing light equally in all directions. The camera is positioned
60 cm above the grains, allowing the acquired images to be sharper,
more accurate and easier to analyze. The system also has an illumin-
ometer to measure the intensity of light. The METS (Minimum Error
Threshold Selecting) method is used to separate the background of the
image. Holes and noises are treated by means of morphological op-
erations. In the end, the Watershed algorithm is used to handle cases
where the beans are very close. The characteristic extraction step is to
obtain morphological, color and texture parameters of the grains. The
PCA (Principal Component Analysis) algorithm is used to reduce the
vector dimensionality of the image attributes from 39 to 12 dimensions
while maintaining 99% of the primary data from the experiment.
4.2.9. Analysis of milled rice grains using SVM
Chalkiness is an important factor to determine rice quality. Adverse
factors such as harvesting immature grains and high moisture can aﬀect
it in a negative way. Usually, the evaluation is performed by manual
inspection. However, in order to improve the eﬃciency of the quality
process, the percentage of chalked grains should ideally be measured
from grains randomly distributed in a sample. A challenge for auto-
matic detection is the connected grains that are invariably present in
the sample and separating them manually would signiﬁcantly reduce
process eﬃciency. Sun et al. (2014) proposed an automated system for
analysis of the percentage of grains in rice. The algorithm deals with the
separation of grains automatically. After segmentation, it is possible to
obtain the number of grains present in the image and the speciﬁc in-
formation of the grain. It is known that the chalked areas are easily
detected by the gray coloration. However, when the germ is not ex-
tracted completely the accuracy of the method may be aﬀected. To deal
with this situation, the system detects the location of the likely area of
germ and considers this information in the classiﬁcation process. Grain
classiﬁcation is done using the SVM method.
4.2.10. Automatic wheat purity measurement system
Ebrahimi et al. (2014) present a computer vision system that uses
neural networks and an imperialist algorithm to automatically detect
the purity of wheat. The experimental data used consist of 52 para-
meters of color, morphology, and texture extracted from images. The
algorithm combines ICA (Imperialist Competitive Algorithm) and ANN
to achieve two purposes: to ﬁnd the set of best parameters and to create
a robust classiﬁcation system. The system is trained to classify wheat
grains and impurities, In the ﬁrst one, the elimination of shadows using
the RGB and HSI color spaces and mathematical operations of the
images is carried out by means of a table scanner. The selection of at-
tributes that characterize the objects of interest is one of the most sig-
niﬁcant challenges in pattern recognition. purpose of the feature se-
lection process is to identify the ideal number of attributes that generate
the expected results in the algorithms This process may be non-intuitive
because parameters that perform poorly when used separately may
have better results when used together. ICA is used as a way to optimize
the number of extracted features.
4.2.11. Development of a method using hyperspectral images for detection
of wheat grains damaged by Fusarium, mottled and vitreous
Serranti et al. (2013) developed a method based on the classiﬁcation
of hyperspectral images for identiﬁcation of three types of wheat (Tri-
ticum durum): vitriﬁed, yellow berry and damaged by Fusarium. Vitr-
eous grains are hard, translucent and amber. Non-vitreous grains are
opaque and soft. The vitreous degree is, therefore, an important quality
factor for wheat because it improves the quality of the ﬂour and the
color of the foods produced with it. In contrast, yellow berry or mottled
grains adversely aﬀect the quality of the ﬂour produced because of its
yellowish color and the soft grain appearance. However, the mixing of
predetermined quantities of mottled and vitriﬁed grains is tolerated by
the industry. Grains aﬀected by Fusarium have low market interest and,
consequently, reduced ﬁnal sales price. This is due to concerns about
the food safety of wheat because the contamination caused by this type
of fungus causes in the presence of mycotoxins in the grain. Image
acquisition consists of obtaining hyperspectral images of selected wheat
grains in the laboratory using a device equipped with an HSI (Hyper-
spectral
Imaging)
system
operating
in
the
near-infrared
range
(1000–1700 nm). The PCA technique is used for exploratory purposes
to analyze the common characteristics of the samples and their groups:
samples characterized by similar spectra can be grouped into the same
product class. However, PCA is an unsupervised method and cannot be
used to construct a predictive model, such as for classifying samples. In
this sense, the PLS-DA (Partial Least Squares Discriminant Analysis)
technique is used to identify the model capable of classifying the types
of wheat used. The spectral data obtained from the wheat images pre-
sent a high degree of dimensionality due to the redundancy between
continuous variables (wavelengths). Therefore, it is necessary to select
a reduced set of wavelengths to optimize the processing. The iPLS-DA
(Interval Partial Least Squares Discriminant Analysis) method allows
selection of a reduced subset of wave intervals. Initially, the authors
obtain 121 wavelengths, which are reduced to 92 in order to minimize
the eﬀect of the noise caused by the background. With the use of the
iPLS-DA technique, this number is reduced to 12 wavelengths. Com-
paring the results obtained for the diﬀerent grades, the best grading
model was the grading obtained for vitreous grains.
4.3. Phenology and phenotyping
Phenology is the branch of ecology that studies the events that occur
during the life cycle of the plant in reaction to the conditions of the
environment (Fina, 1973). Temperature, light, and humidity are some
of the examples of environmental conditions that can trigger reactions
such as ﬂowering and fruiting in plants. The stage of development of
the plant, for example, is one of the attributes that, in most cases, is
evaluated manually. This task, like grain inspection and disease as-
sessment, is laborious and susceptible to human failure (Zhu et al.,
2016). The application of a computer vision system, in this case, would
oﬀer a productive and non-invasive alternative to the manual ob-
servation work required in the process of plant phenotyping.
4.3.1. Phenotyping framework using machine learning to evaluate the
severity of stress in soybean plants
Naik et al. (2017) present a real-time phenotyping framework using
computer vision and machine learning to classify the severity of iron
deﬁciency chlorosis in soybean plants. The workﬂow presented for the
phenotyping consists of the following steps: (a) capture the image; (b)
storage and curation; (c) extraction of phenotypic characteristics; (d)
machine learning (classiﬁcation); (e) model for use in decision support
systems. In the study, ten approaches to classiﬁcation are compared in
order to select the best approach for use in a smartphone application.
The images were obtained using a DSLR camera and calibrated using
the X-Rite ColorChecker. In the pre-processing step, the white adjust-
ment and the color calibration are performed to guarantee the uni-
formity of the collected images. In the segmentation step, the images
are converted from RGB to HSV with the objective of eﬃcient removal
of the black background using the technique of thresholding. The noise
and the remaining isolated points are eliminated using the component
connection method. This method consists of detecting clusters of pixels
that are connected to each other to identify the largest component.
According to the protocol for the acquisition of images, the plant should
be positioned in the center, so the removal of the unconnected com-
ponents is simpliﬁed. The extraction of characteristics consists in cal-
culating the percentage of yellow, corresponding to the regions of
chlorosis, and the percentage of brown, corresponding to the regions of
necrosis of the plant. In the classiﬁcation stage, the authors compare ten
models: decision trees, random forests, naive Bayes, linear discriminant
D.I. Patrício, R. Rieder
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 153 (2018) 69–81
76

analysis, quadratic discriminant analysis, SVM, k-nearest neighbors and
Gaussian mixture model. Accuracy and interpretability (end-user ability
to interpret output data) were evaluated for the construction of a
smartphone application that included both the processing and the
classiﬁcation of the images. The chosen method taking into account
these aspects was the hierarchical model composed of two stages of
classiﬁcation by means of the SVM method.
4.3.2. Automatic method to determine wheat emergence and ﬂowering
stages
Sadeghi-Tehran et al. (2017) present an automated method to detect
the ﬂowering stage of wheat using a computer vision system. The
method is not limited to speciﬁc wheat cultivars and therefore can be
employed for a variety of cultivars without any adjustment necessary.
The method is robust to handle lighting diﬀerences and natural lighting
conditions in the ﬁeld. It is robust, too, in the distinction of newly
emerged ears, despite its similarity of color between leaves and ears.
The technique is performed in four steps: (a) acquisition of image
through a camera; (b) image pre-processing for contrast adjustment
using the DS (Decorrelation Stretching) technique; (c) extraction of
attributes; (d) classiﬁcation of images. The DS method consists of
widening the color diﬀerences and increasing the contrast of the image
by removing the correlation between channels found in each pixel. It is
possible, in this way, to distinguish the spikes from the leaves. The
method lets you highlight details in images, such as spikes, even when
they are diﬃcult for identiﬁcation with the naked eye. In the attribute
extraction step, the SIFT and BOV methods are used to generate the
visual vocabulary of the image. The classiﬁer adopted for the method is
the SVM.
4.3.3. Automatic observation of wheat development in the ﬁeld
Zhu et al. (2016) propose an automatic observation system for
wheat spikelet development based on computer vision. Images are ob-
tained under natural conditions with frequent changes of lighting di-
rectly from the ﬁeld. To ensure that these are representative of the plot,
a statistical analysis is performed. For the system to adapt to a complex
environment, the detection mechanism of the proposed spike is formed
by two steps: rustic and ﬁne. The rustic detection step is to use the DS
technique to highlight the regions of interest and an SVM classiﬁer to
ﬁnd the regions containing the wheat ears. In the thin detection stage,
for each region detected by the SVM classiﬁer, DSIFT techniques are
used to extract the attributes of the image and again to classify it using
SVM. The FV technique (Fisher Vector) is used to optimize the attribute
vector that will be used as input to the classiﬁcation algorithm. The
result is quite acceptable when compared to manual observations. The
classiﬁcation performed using two-step SVM was compared to other
methods such as ExGExR (Excess Green - Excess Red) color index, sal-
iency, multiple color, and k-Means. The method excels in the majority
of cases. The ExGExR and saliency methods are not suitable for the
detection of wheat spikelets since they do not perform well into com-
plex backgrounds.
4.3.4. Corn tassel characterization
Lu et al. (2015) present a computer vision system called mTassel for
the purpose of characterizing the corn tassel using a computer vision
system. This technique combines multiple views of attributes and color
channels in order to reduce the inﬂuence of environmental variations.
In addition to the detection of the total number of tassels, other char-
acteristics such as tassel color, number of branches, length, width,
perimeter and diameter are also obtained to allow monitoring over
time. A large database (10 sequences with 16,031 samples) was used.
The results of the work can be used for the detection of the stage of
development, accurate estimation of production and dismantling by
machines, as well as future research involving phenotyping. The images
are captured hourly, between 9am and 4 pm, by a camera installed in
the ﬁeld. The ground truth is obtained by manually annotating the
attributes of the corn tassel. The system consists of four modules: P, D, S
and T. The ﬁrst, module P, is responsible for detecting the potential
regions that can hold the banners in the images. Module D is re-
sponsible for the accurate detection of the tassel in the set of regions
previously determined. The module S extracts the tassel shape attri-
butes. Finally, the T module estimates the shape parameters and
number of banners. Mathematically, any color space can be viewed as a
kind of linear or non-linear transformation of RGB space. Considering
the fact that there is a margin of diﬀerence between colors, the goal is to
look for a method that can distinguish one color from another. Machine
learning techniques are used to identify the linear projection that best
distributes colors in a three-dimensional space. Thus, they can be used
to convert RGB to a novel color space called SLC (Saliency Color Space).
The colors that correspond to the tassel are improved, while the
background colors are compressed and restricted. After the step of
thresholding, the appearance of noise is common. Therefore, a ﬁltering
operation is normally used to reduce noise. Intuitively, the method can
be seen with a “high pass” ﬁlter with a frequency threshold computed
automatically. The unpredictable variation of the scene, for example,
occlusion and specular reﬂection, may break the detection area of the
tassel. However, a potential detection area must be continuous. Thus,
the Euclidean distance transform is introduced to connect the separated
areas and complete the proposed region. In module D, SVM classiﬁers
are used for the detection of banners. From an image classiﬁed as being
of a tassel, the module S extracts and delimits the shape of the tassel in
the image. In this module again an SVM classiﬁer is used to name the
banding and background regions. The t module is detected and de-
limited, the T module extracts the attributes of color, number of
branches, width, perimeter, diameter and number of banners. The re-
sults obtained by the method showed the superiority of the segmenta-
tion module when compared to the methods AP-HI (Yu et al., 2013),
LCM (Teixidó et al., 2012) and HSeg (Tang et al., 2011).
4.3.5. Maize tassel segmentation based on the region-based color modeling
method
Lu et al. (2016) present a method for segmentation of the maize
tassel capable of processing diﬀerent colors and, thus, enable its use in
several cultivars. The approach adopted by the method uses the tech-
nique of segmentation based on graphs and the algorithm SLIC. The
ﬁrst has the eﬀect of softening the limits of the regions while the
second, SLIC, preserves the borders of the region. From these identiﬁed
regions, the method proposes which image color modeling will be used
by neural networks. This model is called NNI (Neural Network In-
tensity). Instead of training the classiﬁer using the entire sample set, the
model trains a neural network for each image intensity, in order to
achieve greater robustness to the lighting modiﬁcations in the scene.
The results demonstrate that the method achieves a favorable perfor-
mance and that the approach used has suﬃcient ﬂexibility and ex-
pandability to be applied in other cultures. The method overcomes the
state of the art regarding the segmentation of the corn tassel. The NNI
model, when compared to a traditional neural network, improves the
overall performance of the method. The mTassel-S (Lu et al., 2015)
method presented inferior performance when used with the test images.
4.3.6. Automatic characterization of rice ﬂowering
Guo et al. (2015) present an automated system for the character-
ization of rice ﬂowering dynamics using a series of RGB images ac-
quired in the ﬁeld. According to the authors, ﬂowering (anthill of the
spikelet) is one of the most important phenotypic characteristics of rice
and, consequently, considerable eﬀort is expended by the researchers to
observe its dynamics. Extrusion of the anthers lasts approximately one
to two and a half hours daily during the breeding phase and the external
characteristics of the environment are highly sensitive. The proposed
method uses RGB, DSIFT, BOV and SVM images. The module installed
in the ﬁeld consists of a camera and microcontroller programmed to
monitor the power, control the camera trigger and send the images to a
D.I. Patrício, R. Rieder
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 153 (2018) 69–81
77

server via Wi-Fi. The system initially monitors few samples due to its
high cost. However, the method can be extended to be used on drones.
Due to the size of the rice ﬂower, image resolution aﬀects the perfor-
mance of the method. Low-resolution images have a negative impact on
the accuracy of the method. The used SVM classiﬁer obtained 83%
accuracy when using 30 images for training and 64% accuracy when
300 images were used in contradiction to what was expected. Normally
it is expected that when using a larger number of images for training a
classiﬁer this will perform better. One of the reasons that may explain
the fact is that the complexity of the background generates high var-
iation in the SIFT descriptors and, consequently, the more images for
the training, the greater the impact on the accuracy. However, ac-
cording to the authors, further studies still need to be done to determine
the real cause of the problem.
4.3.7. Corn tassel detection using computer vision and SVM
Dismantling corn is a task that can be performed manually or with
the help of machines. However, the success rate normally achieved by
machines in this process ranges from 60% to 90%. Yet, when employed,
there is a need for people to complete the process, as the desired success
rate is 99%. The main problem in this scenario is that in corn planta-
tions the height of the plant is not constant and, even in machines that
use optical sensors, a more accurate discharge has not yet been reached.
Kurtulmuş and Kavdir (2014) present a study to explore the possibility
of determining the cutting position of the corn tassel in a plantation
using computer vision. The method can be summarized in the following
sequence of steps: (a) obtaining RGB images; (b) binarization of images
using an SVM classiﬁer; (c) application of morphological operations in
the image; (d) construction of distance map; (e) identiﬁcation of the
potential position of the spikes. In binarization of the image, the SVM
classiﬁer used is trained to detect pixels belonging to the banners with
the color information as input in the RGB, HSI and YCbCr spaces. The
result of binarization consists of several connected parts and other
unconnected parts belonging to both the tassel and regions of image
noise. In this sense, morphological operations in the image are neces-
sary to reduce the search regions and to extract the potential regions for
tassel location. The result is non-uniform and uneven areas. The next
step is to calculate the Euclidean distance of each pixel from the fore-
ground to the nearest pixel of the background and thus obtain a dis-
tance map. In this phase of the algorithm, potential locations for the
tassel include false positives. To eliminate them, the SIFT and GLCM
techniques are used to extract the shape and texture attributes respec-
tively. The consolidation of these results allows obtaining a potential
tassel location and potential cut position.
4.3.8. Diagnosis of nutritional status relative to nitrogen in corn leaves
Romualdo et al. (2014) propose a computer vision method to detect
the nutritional status of nitrogen in maize. Identiﬁcation of nutritional
status using leaf chemistry requires leaf sampling when the plant is in
an advanced stage of development. In this way, it impedes the correc-
tive action in the crop in course, if the detection of deﬁciency of a
speciﬁc nutrient is detected. The main objective of the system is to
identify nutritional deﬁciencies at diﬀerent stages of plant develop-
ment, especially in the early stages of growth, which may contribute to
the early diagnosis and correction in the same growth cycle. For the
acquisition of images, a table scanner is used. The ﬁrst steps of the
algorithm are to remove the background of the image, separate the
scanned sheets and orient them horizontally. Several small regions of
the leaves are extracted for texture analysis. These regions undergo a
statistical analysis to determine if it is representative to use them for
sheet representation. If they are not, they are discarded. The set of
texture attributes extracted are VFD (Volume Fractal Dimension), GW
(Gabor Wavelet) and VFDCA (VFD with Canonical Analysis). Classiﬁ-
cation is performed using the Bayes method. Analyzing the results ob-
tained, the use of the GW method presented better performance.
5. Discussion
In general, the methods analyzed use the same organization: image
acquisition, processing, and classiﬁcation. However, each situation re-
quires the selection of the adequate algorithms considering the in-
dividual characteristics of the problem that will be handled. There is no
default workﬂow that can be applied in a generic way to the cultures
without adjustments in its strategy of detection and processing of
images.
The segmentation of images also plays an important role in
achieving the desired result. Although it is simple to use for images
obtained in controlled environments, this task is not trivial when
images are obtained directly from the crop. In such a situation, the
lighting variability, the complexity of the background, and the position
of image capture are some of the factors that make this task challen-
ging. In this scenario, the use of artiﬁcial intelligence already in the
segmentation stage can bring positive results to the general accuracy of
the method. Another great challenge to be addressed by the algorithms
is the variability of the physiological characteristics of the plants be-
cause, when combined, they increase even more the diversity of factors
that need to be analyzed in the image processing.
Machine learning algorithms are sensitive to the volume and quality
of information used to train them. In some situations, when the algo-
rithm “learns” about noise and excessive details of the input set, we
have the overﬁtting situation that negatively impacts the generalization
capacity of the built model. However, when the data is not suﬃcient,
the model may not be able to generalize when used with validation
data. The evaluated works showed diﬀerent approaches to deal with
this situation and properly select the attributes that guarantee the best
performance of the method. In addition, in order to guarantee good
performance, it is necessary to reduce the dimensionality of the input
vectors for the classiﬁcation algorithms, in order to optimize the pro-
cessing of the learning algorithms. The SVM classiﬁer, used in 56% of
the analyzed works, can be pointed at the predominant technique,
having good results of accuracy and performance. In spite of this, be-
cause it is only able to classify data into two groups, the approaches
studied end up using a hierarchical structure to increase the greater
number of classes. It should be noted that algorithms such as DBN and
CNN, although recent and with few case studies, present a promising
alternative for processing large volumes of complex data.
The implementation of a considered set of works utilized algorithms
for processing in CPU and modules available in the MATLAB platform.
No evidence was found of the use of large-scale GPUs in the im-
plementation of the analyzed works. In contrast, it is understood that
recent advances in this area are promising in raising the processing and
classiﬁcation capacity of pattern recognition models. Deep Neural
Networks has become a viable solution for image classiﬁcation thanks
to the development of the computational power of GPUs in recent years
(Coates et al., 2009). Besides that, CNN has stood out as one of the most
eﬀective techniques in pattern recognition applications with a large
number of images (Lee et al., 2015). There is a great advantage in using
this kind of hardware since deep neural networks processing exploits
the features in which the GPUs stand out: high intensive data parallel
operations.
Interest in the use of computer vision and artiﬁcial intelligence was
evident. Recent works like automatic diseases detection and identiﬁ-
cation (Lu et al., 2017; Ferentinos, 2018), microorganisms classiﬁcation
(Kosov et al., 2018), detection of stored-grain insects using deep
learning (Shen et al., 2018) are some of the examples. Classiﬁcation
systems are tools that also aid the grain marketing processes. These
systems aim to meet the needs of buyers and at the same time en-
courage producers to seek the desired quality as they provide equitable
returns in relation to what is being marketed. Handling, transportation,
processing, treatment, and storage operations are signiﬁcantly inﬂu-
enced by the characteristics of the grain classiﬁcation system adopted.
Grains
produced
and
harvested
in
the
ﬁeld
are
physically
D.I. Patrício, R. Rieder
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 153 (2018) 69–81
78

heterogeneous due to the diversity of the other elements present as
plants, insects, inert matter, and soil (Hulasare et al., 2003). Therefore,
due to its importance in the grain production chain, it is evident the
need for agile and eﬀective methods for its utilization. In this sense,
computer vision presents as a valuable asset.
Two other aspects are explored in the literature: crop monitoring
and cultivar identiﬁcation. Cultivar identiﬁcation is an important as-
pect in the development of a new cultivar. Cultivar development re-
quires a great deal of eﬀort in the genetic improvement process and
requires a large number of crosses. During this process, it is essential for
the breeder to precise control which progenies are being tested and
which crosses are being carried out. Therefore, it is essential the pro-
tection of the cultivar generated to guarantee to the breeder the ex-
pected commercial return relative to this intense work accomplished.
One of the necessary conditions for the protection of a cultivar is to
evaluate whether the material meets the technical criteria of distin-
guishability, homogeneity, and stability (Act 1991,). Another aspect
related to cultivar identiﬁcation is the importance of correct cultivar
selection to the producer. The selection of the cultivar to be used by the
producer is an important decision that considers, mainly, economic
factors, maturity, and resistance to diseases. The purity of the cultivar
should also be considered. Some of the criteria used to diﬀerentiate
cultivars may be inﬂuenced by the environment and in some cases,
these characteristics are phenotypically very similar. In this context, the
use of advanced techniques for the diﬀerentiation of cultivars involving
laboratory tests through the use of electrophoresis and chromatography
can be avoided if eﬃcient non-destructive methods of cultivar identi-
ﬁcation are available. Last, crop monitoring has gained evidence since
it opens the possibility of integration with other automation technolo-
gies involving robotics and autonomous vehicles. This point was not
explored in the present work but some results like corn tassel identiﬁ-
cation show valuable when applied in conjunction with automated
machines.
Manual methods for grain assessment are challenging even for
people who are able to perform these tasks. One of the negative aspects
is the time required to carry out such assessments, which impedes rapid
decision-making and large-scale evaluation (Zareiforoush et al., 2015).
However, due to the natural variability of the products, the task of
identiﬁcation and classiﬁcation is extremely challenging and compu-
tationally intensive because it involves a large number of data due to
the number of parameters to be used in the classiﬁcation (Visen et al.,
2002).
In the context of cultivar identiﬁcation, the selection of the cultivar
that will be used by the producer is an important decision that takes
into account economic factors, maturity, resistance to diseases, among
other characteristics. The purity of the cultivar to be chosen should also
be considered. Some of the criteria used to diﬀerentiate cultivars may
be inﬂuenced by the environment and in some cases, these character-
istics are phenotypically very similar. In this context, the use of ad-
vanced techniques for the diﬀerentiation of oat cultivars involving la-
boratory tests through the use of electrophoresis and chromatography is
justiﬁable.
Consider, for example, the three oat cultivars UPFA 20 - Teixeirinha,
UPFA 21 - Moreninha, UPFA 22 - Temprana. Teixeirinha and Temprana
are cultivars indicated for food industry consumption with a high-
quality standard (Universidade de Passo Fundo and de Aveia, 2017).
However, the cultivar Temprana has a super early cycle, while Teix-
eirinha has a regular cycle. Moreninha is a black oat cultivar, suitable
for grazing and ensiling. Therefore, the latter has a completely diﬀerent
application of the ﬁrst two. Therefore, it is understood that there is a
demand for fast methods to identify cultivars at diﬀerent points along
the oat production chain, from the stage of creation and registration of
new cultivars, through planting and ﬁnishing with grain processing by
the industry. In addition, the quality of the grains is also an important
aspect evaluated by the industry. In this situation, a manual approach
requires time and speciﬁc laboratories available.
6. Conclusion
Computer vision systems are already widely employed in diﬀerent
segments of agricultural production and industrial food production.
They can be used in grading systems for orange, papaya, almond, po-
tato, lemon, wheat, corn, rice, and soybean. Its use is justiﬁable due to
the beneﬁts obtained. The use of such systems provides a simple and
objective analysis of the samples, producing accurate descriptive data.
Through these systems it is possible to automate laborious tasks, in a
non-destructive way, producing adequate data for future analysis.
It was identiﬁed that there are gaps to be ﬁlled with the develop-
ment of intelligent devices that use computer vision and artiﬁcial in-
telligence for automation of tasks in the ﬁeld, as well as their integra-
tion with agricultural machines and drones. Expanding the use of GPUs
and advanced artiﬁcial intelligence techniques are also promising al-
ternatives for future work. Wheat, oat and barley cultivars, for instance,
could beneﬁt from a computer system that aims to reduce complexity
and costs in the gluten-containing grains classiﬁcation from images.
Finally, our intention that this survey would present diverse appli-
cations and techniques of machine learning, image and video proces-
sing in order to motivate more researchers to apply them for solving
agricultural problems currently open. The study of the presented works
and the problems that they set out to solve together with the new ad-
vances in computer vision and artiﬁcial intelligence can lead to new
solutions for agriculture bringing gains of production, quality, and food
security.
References
ACM Digital Library, 2018. <https://dl.acm.org/>.
Act 1991, 1991. International convention for the protection of new varieties of plants.
<http://www.upov.int/upovlex/en/conventions/1991/act1991.html>.
Barbedo, J.G.A., 2013. Digital image processing techniques for detecting, quantifying and
classifying plant diseases. SpringerPlus 2 (1), 660. https://doi.org/10.1186/2193-
1801-2-660.
<http://springerplus.springeropen.com/articles/10.1186/2193-1801-
2-660> .
Barbedo, J.G.A., 2016. A review on the main challenges in automatic plant disease
identiﬁcation based on visible range images. Biosyst. Eng. 144, 52–60. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2016.01.017.
<http://www.sciencedirect.com/
science/article/pii/S1537511015302476> .
Boniecki, P., Piekarska-Boniecka, H., Świerczyński, K., Koszela, K., Zaborowicz, M.,
Przybył, J., 2014. Detection of the granary weevil based on x-ray images of damaged
wheat kernels. J. Stored Prod. Res. 56, 38–42. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jspr.2013.
11.001.
<http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/
S0022474X13000829> .
Breuel, T.M., Ul-Hasan, A., Al-Azawi, M.A., Shafait, F., 2013. High-performance ocr for
printed english and fraktur using lstm networks. In: 2013 12th International
Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition, pp. 683–687. doi:https://doi.
org/10.1109/ICDAR.2013.140.
Chung, C.-L., Huang, K.-J., Chen, S.-Y., Lai, M.-H., Chen, Y.-C., Kuo, Y.-F., 2016. Detecting
Bakanae disease in rice seedlings by machine vision. Comput. Electron. Agric. 121,
404–411. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2016.01.008.
<http://www.
sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168169916000132> .
Coates, A., Baumstarck, P., Le, Q., Ng, A.Y., Scalable learning for object detection with
GPU hardware. In: 2009 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and
Systems, IEEE, pp. 4287–4293. doi:https://doi.org/10.1109/IROS.2009.5354084.
<http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/5354084/>.
Davies, E. (Ed.), 2005. Machine Vision, third ed., Signal Processing and its Applications,
Morgan Kaufmann, Burlington. doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-206093-9.
50039-3. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/
B9780122060939500393>.
Ebrahimi, E., Mollazade, K., Babaei, S., 2014. Toward an automatic wheat purity mea-
suring device: a machine vision-based neural networks-assisted imperialist competi-
tive algorithm approach. Measurement 55, 196–205. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
measurement.2014.05.003.
<http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/
S0263224114002097> .
Ferentinos, K.P., 2018. Deep learning models for plant disease detection and diagnosis.
Comput. Electron. Agric. 145, 311–318. https://doi.org/10.1016/J.COMPAG.2018.
01.009.
<https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/
S0168169917311742#f0005> .
Fina, A.L.d., 1973. Climatologia y fenologia agricolas. ﬁrst ed., EUDEBA.
Food, 2012. A.O. of the United Nations, Faostat database. <http://www.fao.org/
faostat>.
Girshick, R.B., 2015. Fast R-CNN. In: 2015 IEEE International Conference on Computer
Vision, ICCV 2015, Santiago, Chile, December 7–13, 2015, pp. 1440–1448.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1109/ICCV.2015.169.
Girshick, R.B., Donahue, J., Darrell, T., Malik, J., 2014. Rich feature hierarchies for
D.I. Patrício, R. Rieder
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 153 (2018) 69–81
79

accurate object detection and semantic segmentation. CoRR abs/1311.2524.
<http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2524>.
Guo, W., Fukatsu, T., Ninomiya, S., 2015. Automated characterization of ﬂowering dy-
namics in rice using ﬁeld-acquired time-series RGB images. Plant Meth. 11 (1).
https://doi.org/10.1186/s13007-015-0047-9. <http://plantmethods.
biomedcentral.com.ez103.periodicos.capes.gov.br/articles/10.1186/s13007-015-
0047-9>.
Han, L., Haleem, M.S., Taylor, M., 2015. A novel computer vision-based approach to
automatic detection and severity assessment of crop diseases. In: 2015 Science and
Information Conference (SAI), pp. 638–644. doi:https://doi.org/10.1109/SAI.2015.
7237209.
He, K., Zhang, X., Ren, S., Sun, J., 2016. Deep residual learning for image recognition. In:
2016 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, CVPR 2016, Las
Vegas, NV, USA, June 27–30, 2016, pp. 770–778. doi:https://doi.org/10.1109/
CVPR.2016.90.
Hornberg, A., 2017. Handbook of Machine and Computer Vision, Wiley-VCH Verlag
GmbH & Co. KGaA. doi:https://doi.org/10.1002/9783527413409.fmatter.
Hulasare, R., Dronzek, B., Jayas, D., 2003. Grain-Grading Systems. CRC Presshttps://doi.
org/10.1201/9780203911310.ch3.
IEEE Xplore Digital Library, 2018. <https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/Xplore/home.jsp>.
Kamilaris, A., Prenafeta-Boldú, F.X., 2018. Deep learning in agriculture: a survey.
Comput. Electron. Agric. 147, 70–90. https://doi.org/10.1016/J.COMPAG.2018.02.
016.
<https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/
S0168169917308803> .
Kezhu, T., Yuhua, C., Weixian, S., Xiaoda, C., 2014. Identiﬁcation of diseases for soybean
seeds by computer vision applying BP neural network. Int. J. Agric. Biol. Eng. 7 (3),
43–50. https://doi.org/10.3965/ijabe.v7i3.1028.
<https://ijabe.org/index.php/
ijabe/article/view/1028> .
Kirk, D.B., Hwu, W.-m.W., 2016. Programming Massively Parallel Processors, Third
Edition: A Hands-on Approach. third ed. Morgan Kaufmann Publishers Inc., San
Francisco, CA, USA.
Kitchenham, B., Charters, S., 2007. Guidelines for performing systematic literature re-
views in software engineering.
Kosov, S., Shirahama, K., Li, C., Grzegorzek, M., 2018. Environmental microorganism
classiﬁcation using conditional random ﬁelds and deep convolutional neural net-
works. Pattern Recogn. 77, 248–261. https://doi.org/10.1016/J.PATCOG.2017.12.
021.
<https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/
S0031320317305174> .
Krizhevsky, A., Sutskever, I., Hinton, G.E., 2012. Imagenet classiﬁcation with deep con-
volutional neural networks. In: Pereira, F., Burges, C.J.C., Bottou, L., Weinberger, K.
Q. (Eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 25, Curran Associates,
Inc., pp. 1097–1105. http://papers.nips.cc/paper/4824-imagenet-classiﬁcation-with-
deep-convolutional-neural-networks.pdf.
Kurtulmuş, F., Kavdir, İ., 2014. Detecting corn tassels using computer vision and support
vector machines. Expert Syst. Appl. 41 (16), 7390–7397. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
eswa.2014.06.013.
<http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/
S0957417414003546> .
Lecun, Y., Bottou, L., Bengio, Y., Haﬀner, P., 1998. Gradient-based learning applied to
document recognition. Proc. IEEE 86 (11), 2278–2324. https://doi.org/10.1109/5.
726791.
Lee, S.H., Chan, C.S., Wilkin, P., Remagnino, P., 2015. Deep-plant: Plant identiﬁcation
with convolutional neural networks. In: 2015 IEEE International Conference on
Image Processing (ICIP). IEEE, pp. 452–456. https://doi.org/10.1109/ICIP.2015.
7350839. <http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7350839/>.
Liu, T., Chen, W., Wu, W., Sun, C., Guo, W., Zhu, X., 2016. Detection of aphids in wheat
ﬁelds using a computer vision technique. Biosyst. Eng. 141, 82–93. https://doi.org/
10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2015.11.005.
<http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/
article/pii/S1537511015300866> .
Liu, T., Wu, W., Chen, W., Sun, C., Chen, C., Wang, R., Zhu, X., Guo, W., 2016. A shadow-
based method to calculate the percentage of ﬁlled rice grains. Biosyst. Eng. 150,
79–88. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2016.07.011.
<http://www.
sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1537511016300174> .
Lu, H., Cao, Z., Xiao, Y., Fang, Z., Zhu, Y., Xian, K., 2015. Fine-grained maize tassel trait
characterization with multi-view representations. Comput. Electron. Agric. 118,
143–158. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2015.08.027.
<http://www.
sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168169915002537> .
Lu, H., Cao, Z., Xiao, Y., Li, Y., Zhu, Y., 2016. Region-based colour modelling for joint
crop and maize tassel segmentation. Biosyst. Eng. 147, 139–150. https://doi.org/10.
1016/j.biosystemseng.2016.04.007.
<http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/
article/pii/S1537511015304438> .
Lu, J., Hu, J., Zhao, G., Mei, F., Zhang, C., 2017. An in-ﬁeld automatic wheat disease
diagnosis system. Comput. Electron. Agric. 142, 369–379. https://doi.org/10.1016/
J.COMPAG.2017.09.012.
<https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/
S0168169917305999#f0005> .
Mahajan, S., Das, A., Sardana, H.K., 2015. Image acquisition techniques for assessment of
legume quality. Trends Food Sci. Technol. 42 (2), 116–133. https://doi.org/10.1016/
j.tifs.2015.01.001.
<http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/
S0924224415000023> .
Marchi, E., Ferroni, G., Eyben, F., Gabrielli, L., Squartini, S., Schuller, B., 2014. Multi-
resolution linear prediction based features for audio onset detection with bidirec-
tional lstm neural networks. In: 2014 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics,
Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP), pp. 2164–2168. doi:https://doi.org/10.
1109/ICASSP.2014.6853982.
Marsland, S., 2014. Machine Learning: An Algorithmic Perspective, second ed. Chapman
& Hall/CRC.
Naik, H.S., Zhang, J., Lofquist, A., Assefa, T., Sarkar, S., Ackerman, D., Singh, A., Singh,
A.K., Ganapathysubramanian, B., 2017. A real-time phenotyping framework using
machine learning for plant stress severity rating in soybean. Plant Meth. 13 (1), 23.
https://doi.org/10.1186/s13007-017-0173-7.
<https://link.springer.com/article/
10.1186/s13007-017-0173-7> .
Olgun, M., Onarcan, A.O., Ö-zkan, K., Işik, Şahin, Sezer, O., Ö-zgişi, K., Ayter, N.G.,
Başçiftçi, Z.B., Ardiç, M., Koyuncu, O., 2016. Wheat grain classiﬁcation by using
dense sift features with svm classiﬁer. Comput. Electron. Agric. 122, 185–190.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2016.01.033.
<http://www.sciencedirect.com/
science/article/pii/S0168169916300060> .
Pires, R.D.L., Gonçalves, D.N., Oruê, J.P.M., Kanashiro, W.E.S., Rodrigues Jr., J.F.,
Machado, B.B., Gonçalves, W.N., 2016. Local descriptors for soybean disease re-
cognition. Comput. Electron. Agric. 125, 48–55. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.
2016.04.032. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/
S016816991630179X>.
Prince, S.J.D., 2012. Computer Vision: Models, Learning, and Inference, ﬁrst ed.
Cambridge University Press, New York, NY, USA.
Ren, S., He, K., Girshick, R.B., Sun, J., 2015. Faster R-CNN: towards real-time object
detection with region proposal networks. In: Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems 28: Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems
2015, December 7–12, 2015, Montreal, Quebec, Canada, pp. 91–99. <http://papers.
nips.cc/paper/5638-faster-r-cnn-towards-real-time-object-detection-with-region-
proposal-networks>.
Romualdo, L.M., Luz, P.H.C., Devechio, F.F.S., Marin, M.A., Zúñiga, A.M.G., Bruno, O.M.,
Herling, V.R., 2014. Use of artiﬁcial vision techniques for diagnostic of nitrogen
nutritional status in maize plants. Comput. Electron. Agric. 104, 63–70. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.compag.2014.03.009.
<http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/
article/pii/S0168169914000696> .
Russell, S., Norvig, P., 2009. Artiﬁcial Intelligence: A Modern Approach, third ed.
Pearson. <http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/redirect?tag=citeulike07-20&
path=ASIN/0136042597>.
Sabanci, K., Kayabasi, A., Toktas, A., 2017. Computer vision-based method for classiﬁ-
cation of wheat grains using artiﬁcial neural network. J. Sci. Food Agric. 97 (8),
2588–2593. https://doi.org/10.1002/jsfa.8080.
Sadeghi-Tehran, P., Sabermanesh, K., Virlet, N., Hawkesford, M.J., 2017. Automated
method to determine two critical growth stages of wheat: heading and ﬂowering.
Front. Plant Sci. 8https://doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2017.00252. <http://journal.
frontiersin.org/article/10.3389/fpls.2017.00252/abstract>.
Sak, H., Senior, A.W., Beaufays, F., 2014. Long short-term memory based recurrent neural
network architectures for large vocabulary speech recognition, CoRR abs/1402.1128.
<http://arxiv.org/abs/1402.1128>.
Schaeﬀel, F., Hornberg, A., 2017. Handbook of Machine and Computer Vision. Wiley VCH
Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA. doi:https://doi.org/10.1002/9783527413409.ch1.
ScienceDirect, 2018. <https://www.sciencedirect.com/>.
Scopus, 2018. <https://www.scopus.com/freelookup/form/author.uri>.
Serranti, S., Cesare, D., Bonifazi, G., 2013. The development of a hyperspectral imaging
method for the detection of Fusarium-damaged, yellow berry and vitreous Italian
durum wheat kernels. Biosyst. Eng. 115 (1), 20–30. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
biosystemseng.2013.01.011.
<http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/
S1537511013000196> .
Shah, J.P., Prajapati, H.B., Dabhi, V.K., 2016. A survey on detection and classiﬁcation of
rice plant diseases. In: 2016 IEEE International Conference on Current Trends in
Advanced Computing (ICCTAC), pp. 1–8. doi:https://doi.org/10.1109/ICCTAC.2016.
7567333.
Shen, Y., Zhou, H., Li, J., Jian, F., Jayas, D.S., 2018. Detection of stored-grain insects
using deep learning. Comput. Electron. Agric. 145, 319–325. https://doi.org/10.
1016/J.COMPAG.2017.11.039.
<https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/
pii/S016816991730769X#f0005> .
Shrestha, B.L., Kang, Y.-M., Yu, D., Baik, O.-D., 2016. A two-camera machine vision ap-
proach to separating and identifying laboratory sprouted wheat kernels. Biosyst. Eng.
147, 265–273. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2016.04.008.
<http://
www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1537511015303433> .
Shrivastava, S., Singh, S.K., Hooda, D.S., 2016. Soybean plant foliar disease detection
using image retrieval approaches. Multimedia Tools Appl. 1–28. https://doi.org/10.
1007/s11042-016-4191-7.
<https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11042-
016-4191-7> .
Simonyan, K., Zisserman, A., 2015. Very deep convolutional networks for large-scale
image recognition. CoRR abs/1409.1556. <http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1556>.
Singh, K.R., Chaudhury, S., 2016. Eﬃcient technique for rice grain classiﬁcation using
back-propagation neural network and wavelet decomposition. IET Comput. Vision 10
(8), 780–787. https://doi.org/10.1049/iet-cvi.2015.0486.
Springer Link, 2018. <https://link.springer.com/>.
Sun, C., Liu, T., Ji, C., Jiang, M., Tian, T., Guo, D., Wang, L., Chen, Y., Liang, X., 2014.
Evaluation and analysis the chalkiness of connected rice kernels based on image
processing technology and support vector machine. J. Cereal Sci. 60 (2), 426–432.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcs.2014.04.009.
<http://www.sciencedirect.com/
science/article/pii/S0733521014000861> .
Sun, K., Wang, Z., Tu, K., Wang, S., Pan, L., 2016. Recognition of mould colony on un-
hulled paddy based on computer vision using conventional machine-learning and
deep learning techniques. Sci. Rep. 6, 37994. https://doi.org/10.1038/srep37994.
<http://www-nature-com.ez103.periodicos.capes.gov.br/srep/2016/161129/
srep37994/full/srep37994.html> .
Sutskever, I., Vinyals, O., Le, Q.V., 2014. Sequence to sequence learning with neural
networks. In: Proceedings of the 27th International Conference on Neural
Information Processing Systems – Volume 2, NIPS’14, MIT Press, Cambridge, MA,
USA, pp. 3104–3112. <http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2969033.2969173>.
Szegedy, C., Liu, W., Jia, Y., Sermanet, P., Reed, S.E., Anguelov, D., Erhan, D., Vanhoucke,
D.I. Patrício, R. Rieder
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 153 (2018) 69–81
80

V., Rabinovich, A., 2015. Going deeper with convolutions. In: IEEE Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, CVPR 2015, Boston, MA, USA, June 7–12,
2015, pp. 1–9. doi:https://doi.org/10.1109/CVPR.2015.7298594.
Tang, W., Zhang, Y., Zhang, D., Yang, W., Li, M., 2011. Corn tassel detection based on
image processing. In: International Workshop on Image Processing and Optical
Engineering, Vol. 8335. doi:https://doi.org/10.1117/12.917672.
Teixidó, M., Font, D., Pallejà, T., Tresanchez, M., Nogués, M., Palacín, J., 2012. Deﬁnition
of linear color models in the rgb vector color space to detect red peaches in orchard
images taken under natural illumination. Sensors 12 (6), 7701–7718. https://doi.
org/10.3390/s120607701.
<http://www.mdpi.com/1424-8220/12/6/7701> .
Universidade de Passo Fundo, 2017. Cultivares de Aveia. <http://aveia.upf.br/>.
Visen, N., Paliwal, J., Jayas, D., White, N., 2002. Ae—automation and emerging tech-
nologies: specialist neural networks for cereal grain classiﬁcation. Biosyst. Eng. 82
(2), 151–159. https://doi.org/10.1006/bioe.2002.0064.
<http://www.
sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1537511002900644> .
Vithu, P., Moses, J.A., 2016. Machine vision system for food grain quality evaluation: A
review. Trends Food Sci. Technol. 56, 13–20. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tifs.2016.07.
011. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S092422441630084X> .
Web of Science, 2018. <https://www.webofknowledge.com>.
Yu, Z., Cao, Z., Wu, X., Bai, X., Qin, Y., Zhuo, W., Xiao, Y., Zhang, X., Xue, H., 2013.
Automatic image-based detection technology for two critical growth stages of maize:
emergence and three-leaf stage. Agric. For. Meteorol. 174, 65–84. https://doi.org/10.
1016/j.agrformet.2013.02.011.
<http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/
pii/S0168192313000397> .
Zareiforoush, H., Minaei, S., Alizadeh, M.R., Banakar, A., 2015. Potential applications of
computer vision in quality inspection of rice: a review. Food Eng. Rev. 7 (3),
321–345. https://doi.org/10.1007/s12393-014-9101-z.
<https://link.springer.
com/article/10.1007/s12393-014-9101-z> .
Zareiforoush, H., Minaei, S., Alizadeh, M.R., Banakar, A., 2015. A hybrid intelligent ap-
proach based on computer vision and fuzzy logic for quality measurement of milled
rice. Measurement 66, 26–34. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.measurement.2015.01.022.
<http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0263224115000482> .
Zaremba, W., Sutskever, I., Vinyals, O., 2014. Recurrent neural network regularization.
<https://arxiv.org/abs/1409.2329>.
Zeiler, M.D., Fergus, R., 2013. Visualizing and understanding convolutional networks.
CoRR abs/1311.2901. <http://arxiv.org/abs/1311.2901>.
Zhu, Y., Cao, Z., Lu, H., Li, Y., Xiao, Y., 2016. In-ﬁeld automatic observation of wheat
heading stage using computer vision. Biosyst. Eng. 143, 28–41. https://doi.org/10.
1016/j.biosystemseng.2015.12.015.
<http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/
article/pii/S1537511015300349> .
D.I. Patrício, R. Rieder
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 153 (2018) 69–81
81
