Guidelines for Snowballing in Systematic Literature 
Studies and a Replication in Software Engineering 
Claes Wohlin 
Blekinge Institute of Technology 
SE – 371 79, Karlskrona 
Sweden 
+46-(0)455-385820 
Claes.Wohlin@bth.se 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
Background: Systematic literature studies have become common 
in software engineering, and hence it is important to understand 
how to conduct them efficiently and reliably. 
Objective: This paper presents guidelines for conducting literature 
reviews using a snowballing approach, and they are illustrated and 
evaluated by replicating a published systematic literature review. 
Method: The guidelines are based on the experience from 
conducting 
several 
systematic 
literature 
reviews 
and 
experimenting with different approaches. 
Results: The guidelines for using snowballing as a way to search 
for relevant literature was successfully applied to a systematic 
literature review.  
Conclusions: It is concluded that using snowballing, as a first 
search strategy, may very well be a good alternative to the use of 
database searches.   
Categories and Subject Descriptors 
D.2 [Software Engineering]: Management, and G.3 [Probability 
and Statistics]: Experimental design. 
General Terms 
Experimentation, Measurement 
Keywords 
Systematic literature review, systematic mapping studies, 
snowballing, snowball search, replication 
1. INTRODUCTION 
Systematic literature studies, including both reviews and maps, 
have emerged as a way of synthesizing evidence and then 
ultimately allowing researchers to come to a joint understanding 
of the status of a research area in software engineering in the last 
decade. Inspired by medicine, the concept of evidence-based 
software engineering was coined by Kitchenham et al. [1]. Similar 
ideas have been brought into information systems research, e.g. by 
Webster and Watson [2].  
However, the need to synthesize research results in software 
engineering was discussed already in the late 1990s [3, 4, 5]. 
Pickard et al. [3] discuss combining research results, Miller [4] 
addresses the issue of combining research results through meta-
analysis and Hayes [5] uses the concept of synthesis of research 
results. They all have in common that they stress the need for a 
systematic approach to not only conducting individual research 
studies, but also to building knowledge from combining findings 
from different studies on a topic. One such early example is the 
work by Basili et al. [6], where the authors look into combining 
the research and hence knowledge we have regarding research on 
software inspections. 
Based on the original EBSE ideas [1], research related to 
systematic literature studies has subsequently evolved. Guidelines 
for conducting systematic literature reviews have been developed 
[7]. Systematic mapping studies have been highlighted as a 
complement to systematic literature reviews [8]. Kitchenham et al. 
[9] discuss the use of systematic mapping studies as a starting 
point for further research. Here, we use systematic literature 
studies as a collective term for systematic literature reviews and 
systematic mapping studies. 
This paper complements previous guidelines for systematic 
literature reviews in software engineering. It does so by extending 
and detailing the steps for using snowballing as a search approach 
for systematic literature studies. Snowballing refers to using the 
reference list of a paper or the citations to the paper to identify 
additional papers. However, snowballing could benefit from not 
only looking at the reference lists and citations, but to 
complement it with a systematic way of looking at where papers 
are actually referenced and where papers are cited. Using the 
references and the citations respectively is referred to as backward 
and forward snowballing. It builds on ideas presented by for 
example Webster and Watson [2] in information systems and the 
procedure outlined by Wohlin and Prikladnicki [10]. The 
snowballing guidelines are illustrated and evaluated by replicating 
a published reliability study of systematic literature reviews [11]. 
In this paper, the authors conducted two systematic literature 
reviews in parallel to evaluate the reliability of literature reviews. 
The evaluation here provides a third data point using snowballing 
as the main approach to identify relevant literature while a 
database-driven search was applied in the reliability study by 
MacDonell et al. [11]. 
Based on the above motivation, this paper has two main research 
objectives: 
1. 
Formulate a systematic snowballing procedure for systematic 
literature studies in software engineering, 
2. 
Illustrate and evaluate the snowballing procedure by 
replicating a published systematic literature review. 
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for 
personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are 
not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that 
copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights 
for components of this work owned by others than ACM must be 
honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or 
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior 
specific 
permission 
and/or 
a 
fee. 
Request 
permissions 
from 
Permissions@acm.org.  
EASE '14, May 13 - 14 2014, London, England, BC, United Kingdom 
Copyright 2014 ACM 978-1-4503-2476-2/14/05…$15.00. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2601248.2601268 

The remainder of the paper is outlined as follows. Related work is 
presented in Section 2. The snowballing procedure is presented in 
Section 3. The replication of the systematic literature reviews 
presented in [11] using the snowballing procedure is presented in 
Section 4. A discussion of the snowballing procedure is provided 
in Section 5. Finally, a summary is presented in Section 6.  
2. RELATED WORK 
The guidelines for systematic literature reviews [7] are very 
important in supporting researchers in conducting systematic 
literature studies. However, they have also generated discussions. 
According to the guidelines, the objective is to identify all 
relevant research. This is fine as an objective, but it is unlikely to 
work in practice in particular for literature studies of a broader 
area. The challenge related to population of papers vs. the actual 
sample identified is discussed in, for example, [12]. A study by 
Kitchenham et al. [13] may be used to exemplify the challenge. 
They conducted a systematic literature review using manual 
search and found 20 relevant papers. When the authors discussed 
limitations of the study, they mentioned the fact that they used 
manual search and may have missed some relevant studies. Due to 
this limitation, Kitchenham et al. [14] repeated the study using an 
automated database search and found 33 additional studies. This 
example illustrates that we end up being forced into accepting 
samples of relevant papers; the challenge is to get the best 
possible sample from the population. Thus, the search strategy is 
key to ensure a good starting point for the identification of studies 
and ultimately for the actual outcome of the study. 
The example from Kitchenham et al. [13, 14] gives the impression 
that automation is better than manual search. However, the point 
is not really about manual vs. automatic; it is really about being 
systematic. The claim is based on the fact that even if database 
searches can be made automatically, the search is not better than 
the search string used. It is very difficult to formulate good search 
strings, since all too often the terminology used is not 
standardized and if using broad search terms then a large number 
of irrelevant papers will be found in the search. The latter creates 
substantial manual work that also is error-prone. 
The guidelines [7] take database searches using search strings 
from the area of study as a starting point. However, the guidelines 
also state that other complementary searches are needed. The 
latter includes for example: reference lists, grey literature, specific 
research outlets (journals or conferences) and researchers in the 
field. Unfortunately, most systematic literature studies stop short 
of these complementary searches. This may be understandable 
given the amount of work it is to conduct systematic searches in a 
number of databases and then identify the relevant papers of 
sufficiently high quality. The searches in databases are 
challenging for several reasons, including selection of databases, 
different interfaces for the databases, different ways of 
constructing search strings, different search limitations in the 
databases and identification of synonyms of terms used. This 
reasoning leads to two conclusions: 1) the choice of the first step 
in the search strategy often becomes the only step, i.e. search 
databases (if using the guidelines), and 2) given the challenges 
with the database searches, we may miss important literature. 
Thus, other alternative approaches may be considered, for 
example, the use of a snowballing procedure [2].  
Greenhalgh and Peacock [15] applied three different search 
methods in their research, and concluded that protocol-driven 
search approaches by themselves are not necessarily the most 
efficient method regardless of the number of databases used, since 
some sources may be found through personal knowledge/contacts 
(e.g. browsing library shelves and asking colleagues), and 
snowballing is the best approach for identifying sources published 
in obscure journals according to their study. 
Skoglund and Runeson [16] studied a reference-based search 
approach with the primary objective to reduce the number of 
initial articles found in systematic literature studies. Despite that 
the proposed method increased the precision without missing too 
many relevant papers for the technically focused reviews, its 
results were not satisfactory when the search area was wide or the 
searches included general terms. This implies that the choice of 
approach to searching may be context-dependent. 
In summary, too few studies have addressed the reliability of 
systematic literature studies. As discussed here, they have either 
compared different systematic literature studies to check whether 
the same results are achieved [11], [12] and [17], or investigated 
more efficient approaches of searching [15], [16] and [18]. As a 
complement to previous studies, Jalali and Wohlin [19] 
investigated the reliability of systematic literature studies using 
different search strategies. This was done by comparing the 
outcome of two studies on the same topic using the guidelines by 
Kitchenham and Charters [7] and the steps for snowballing 
outlined by Webster and Watson [2] for finding the relevant 
literature. Here, it should be noted that the steps for snowballing 
are only outlined and they cannot be viewed as a guideline in the 
same way as those presented by Kitchenham and Charters. Thus, 
there is a need for more detailed guidelines for snowballing to 
conduct thorough and repeatable systematic literature studies 
using a snowballing approach as the first step. 
When it comes to the reliability of systematic literature reviews, 
the paper by MacDonell et al. [11] is of particular interest. The 
reason being that the snowballing procedure presented next is 
evaluated in Section 4 based on study presented in [11]. 
MacDonell et al. evaluated the reliability of systematic reviews 
through comparing the results of two studies with a common 
research question performed by two independent groups of 
researchers. In their case, the systematic literature review seemed 
to be robust to differences in process and people, and it produced 
stable outcomes. 
3. SNOWBALLING PROCEDURE 
The basic planning and motivation of a systematic literature study 
is independent of the search approach, which is the main concern 
here. Thus, the basic steps for planning a literature study as 
presented in [7] are still relevant even if applying a different 
approach to the search.  
The snowballing procedure is outlined in steps in Figure 1 and 
described in the following subsections. 
3.1 Start Set 
In database searches, the first step is to identify keywords and 
formulate search strings. When applying a snowballing approach, 
the first challenge is to identify a start set of papers to use for the 
snowballing procedure. The start set is shown in the top of Figure 
1. Any search for papers to include in the start set generates a 
tentative start set. The actual start set is only those papers in the 
tentative start set that at the end will be included in the systematic 
literature study. 
A good start set may be identified by using, for example, Google 
Scholar. It is a good alternative to avoid bias in favour of any 

specific publisher. A good start set has the following 
characteristics: 
• 
If relevant papers may come from different communities, 
then it is important to have these covered in the start set. This 
is particularly crucial if there is a risk that relevant papers 
may be in independent clusters, i.e. in clusters of papers not 
referring to each other. 
• 
The number of papers in the start set should not be too small. 
The actual size of the start set depends on the breadth of the 
area being studied. A smaller area (more specific focus) 
requires fewer papers than a broad area.  
• 
If too many papers are found, for example due to having very 
general search terms in Google Scholar, then identifying a 
number of relevant and highly cited papers may be an 
alternative. 
• 
The start set should cover several different publishers, years 
and authors. The important issue here is diversity. 
• 
The start set ought to be formulated from keywords in the 
research question, while preferably also taking synonyms 
into account. The latter is to avoid only capturing papers 
using a specific terminology and missing papers using a 
slightly different terminology.  
There is no silver bullet for identifying a good start set, which is 
very similar to the challenges in identifying search strings in 
database searches. One possibility in snowballing is to identify a 
seminal and highly cited paper in the area of the systematic 
literature study. The challenge of identifying a good start set for 
snowballing is an area for future research. An illustrative example 
of terminology challenges is provided in [19], where agile 
practices in global software engineering were studied. In the 
database search, a paper using the formulation “cross-continent” 
development was not caught, but it became obvious in the 
snowballing that the paper should be included. This illustrates the 
difficulty with inconsistent terminology. The actual results from 
the systematic literature review are presented in [20]. This 
example also illustrates the need for a more consistent usage of 
terminology to enable good systematic literature studies. An 
attempt to address this in the area of global software engineering 
is presented in [21]. 
3.2 Iterations 
Once the start set is decided, including only papers that will be 
included in the final analysis, it is time to start the first iteration 
conducting backward and forward snowballing. To finally decide 
to include a paper means that the full paper should be examined 
before deciding to use it as a paper in the snowballing. If not 
doing this, a rollback is needed if other papers are included based 
on a paper that later is excluded. Thus, it is important to be certain 
on inclusion before using the paper for snowballing at all.  
3.2.1 Backward Snowballing 
If starting to the left in Figure 1, backward snowballing means 
using the reference list to identify new papers to include. The first 
step is to go through the reference list and exclude papers that do 
not fulfil the basic criteria such as, for example, language, 
publication year and type of publication (if only considering peer-
reviewed papers). The next step is to remove papers from the list 
that have already been examined based on being found earlier 
through either backward or forward snowballing in this or a 
previous iteration. Once these are removed, the remaining papers 
are real candidates for inclusion. 
The first two steps in the backward snowballing is to extract as 
much information as possible from the paper being examined and 
not go to the new paper until no more information is available in 
the paper being examined. The following is examined in the 
reference list: 
• 
Title – Is it tentatively a paper to include? 
• 
Publication venue – Is it published in a place where relevant 
papers may be published? 
• 
Authors – Do we know that the authors have published 
relevant paper in the area studied before? 
Papers cannot be excluded based on, for example, that the author 
is not known for publishing in the area, but a paper may be more 
likely to be included if the author regularly publishes in the area. 
Thus, the information found in the reference list must be 
examined and evaluated carefully. If the paper still is a candidate 
for inclusion after having looked at it in the reference list, then the 
next step is to examine where and how the paper is referenced. 
The place and context of the reference may provide important 
information about the actual content of the candidate paper, and it 
is practical to get this information from the paper being examined 
instead of having to find the candidate paper directly. 
If the paper is candidate for inclusion after having examined all 
information available in the paper being examined, then it is time 
to find the potentially new paper to include. 
Once the paper is found, the abstract is read first and then other 
parts of the paper are read until a definitive decision can be taken 
to either include or exclude the paper. It is recommended not to 
start reading the paper from the beginning to end directly, instead 
it is recommended to browse through the paper and read the most 
relevant parts of the paper to be able to make a decision about 
inclusion of exclusion in an efficient way. 
3.2.2 Forward Snowballing 
Forward snowballing refers to identifying new papers based on 
those papers citing the paper being examined, and it is displayed 
to the right in Figure 1. The citations to the paper being examined 
are studied using Google Scholar. Quotes are removed in Google 
Scholar, and only citations are used.  
Each candidate citing the paper is examined. The first screening is 
done based on the information provided in Google Scholar. If this 
information is insufficient for a decision, the citing paper is 
studied in more detail. First, the abstract is studied, and if this is 
insufficient, the place citing the paper already included is 
examined. If this is insufficient, the full text is studied to make a 
decision regarding the new paper. The approach to go through the 
papers is similar as to papers identified using backward 
snowballing. 
3.2.3 Inclusion and Exclusion 
As shown in Figure 1, it is important to decide on either inclusion 
or exclusion before starting to use a new paper for snowballing. If 
moving too quickly into using a paper for snowballing and then 
later realizing that the paper should not have been included there 
is a problem, and the process has to be rolled back and papers 
removed if being wrongly included. Only papers found through 
included papers should be used in the analysis. 
After backward and forward snowballing, new papers identified in 
the iteration are put into a pile to go into the next iteration. It is 
important to do one iteration at the time to get traceability. 

 
 
Figure 1. Snowballing procedure. 
3.3 Authors 
Once no new papers are found in the iterations using both 
backward and forward snowballing, the loop is ended. To 
complement the snowballing, it is recommended to contact the 
authors of included papers to potentially identify some additional 
papers. It is most important to contact the most active researchers 
in the area. Based on any new papers identified, the snowballing 
procedure outlined in Figure 1 must be re-started. 
Other alternative methods to identify additional papers may also 
be considered, for example, searching in specific journals or 
conferences that are likely to include more papers on the topic. 
The journals and conferences may be identified through looking at 
where included papers are published. 
3.4 Data Extraction 
All papers identified go into data extraction, which should be 
conducted in accordance with the research questions posed in the 
systematic literature study. Given that the full papers have to be 
investigated before they go into the snowballing procedure, it may 
be considered to conduct the data extraction at the same time as 
deciding whether the paper should be included or not. 
4. REPLICATION 
4.1 Introduction 
The paper by MacDonell et al. [11] was read 6-12 months before 
deciding to replicate it using the snowballing procedure 
formulated in this paper. Once it was decided to replicate the 
systematic literature review, Sections 1-3 were read in detail to 
ensure that the replication was conducted in a fair way in relation 
to the original study. In particular, the research question in the 
paper is carefully studied to enable replication. The research 
question in MacDonell et al. [11] is formulated as follows: What 
evidence is there that cross-company estimation models are at 
least as good as within-company estimation models for predicting 
effort for software projects? 
Thus, the objective of the replication is primarily to illustrate and 
evaluate the snowballing procedure proposed in Section 3. While 
doing this, the intention is to answer the research question posed 
above, and then to reflect on the results in comparison with the 
two systematic literature reviews presented in [11].  

4.2 Start Set 
As mentioned above a key challenge is to identify a good tentative 
start set. In this particular case, the research question posed in [11] 
was a good starting point. It was decided to avoid publisher bias 
(e.g. searching in one publisher’s database) and do the search in 
Google Scholar. The following string of words was put into 
Google Scholar: cross-company within-company software effort 
estimation, and the time frame chosen was 1995-2005. The latter 
is for replication purposes. The actual search was conducted 
August 20, 2013. But given the time frame of the search, the 
actual search date is of less importance in this case. However, 
under other circumstances the date could be of importance since 
the content of the databases changes and what Google Scholar 
indexes may also change over time. 
In total, 13 candidates for inclusion were identified; they are 
denoted C1, C2 and so forth to indicate that they are candidates 
for inclusion. The 13 papers are: 
C1. Mendes, E. and B.A. Kitchenham, Further Comparison of 
Cross-Company and Within Company Effort Estimation 
Models for Web Applications. Proceedings Metrics’04, 
Chicago, Illinois September 11-17th 2004, IEEE Computer 
Society, pp 348-357, 2004. 
C2. Kitchenham, B.A., and E. Mendes. A Comparison of Cross-
company and Within-company Effort Estimation Models for 
Web Applications, Proceedings 8th International Conference 
on Empirical Assessment in Software Engineering EASE 
2004, Computer Society Press, 2004, pp. 47-55. 
C3. Mendes, E., Lokan, C., Harrison, R., and Triggs, C. A 
Replicated Comparison of Cross-company and Within-
company Effort Estimation Models using the ISBSG 
Database, in Proceedings of Metrics’05, Como, 2005. 
C4. Mair, C. and Shepperd, M., “The Consistency of Empirical 
Comparisons of Regression and Analogy-based Software 
Project Cost Prediction”, Proc. Int. Symp. On Empirical 
Software Engineering, 2005. 
C5. Premraj, R., Shepperd, M., Kitchenham, B. and Forselius, P., 
“An Empirical Analysis of Software Productivity over 
Time”, Proc. Int. Symp. On Software Metrics, 2005. 
C6. B. Kitchenham and E. Mendes, “Software Productivity 
Measurement using Multiple Size Measures”, IEEE Trans. 
On Softw. Eng., vol. 30, pp. 1023-1035, 2004. 
C7. Mendes, E., N. Mosley, and S. Counsell, “Investigating Web 
Size Metrics for Early Web Cost Estimation”, Journal of 
Systems and Software, Vol. 77, No. 2, pp. 157-172, 2005. 
C8. Mendes, E., N. Mosley, and S. Counsell, Investigating Early 
Web Size Measures for Web Cost Estimation, Proceedings of 
EASE’2003 Conference, Keele, April, 2003, pp. 1-22. 
C9. Mendes, E., Dinakaran, G. and Mosley, N., “How Valuable 
is it for a Web Company to Use a Cross-company Cost 
Model, Compared to Using Its Own Single-company 
Model?”, Technical report, 2005. 
C10. Diaz, L.M. and Buxmann, P., “The Value of Cooperative 
Planning in Supply Chains – A Simulative Approach –“, 
Proceedings European Conference on Information Systems, 
2003. 
C11. Bishop, L. and Levine, D. I., ”Computer-Mediated 
Communication as Employee Voice: A Case Study”, 
Industrial and Labor Relations Review, Vol. 52, No. 2, pp. 
213-233, 1999. 
C12. Sin, C. C-S., “An Exploratory Empirical study of the Role of 
Manufacturing in Product Formulation”, PhD thesis, 1997. 
C13. Thompson, 
M., 
Zimbardo, 
P. 
and 
Hutchinson, 
G., 
“Consumers are Having Second Thoughts about Online 
Dating – Are the Real Benefits Getting Lost in Over 
Promises?”, Technical report weAttract.com, 2005. 
First non-peer reviewed candidates were excluded and then 
candidates covering the same study were excluded. Candidates 9, 
12 and 13 were excluded based on not being a peer-reviewed 
journal of conference/workshop paper. Candidate 8 was excluded 
since it was judged that Candidate 7 is an extension of Candidate 
8. The other candidates were reviewed more in-depth. After 
which, it was decided to exclude Candidates 4, 5, 6, 7, 10 and 11 
due to being out of scope. Based on the inclusion/exclusion 
criteria, it was decided to include candidates 1, 2 and 3. The latter 
three are denoted P1, P2 and P3 respectively and these papers 
form the start set for the snowballing. 
The identified start set is far from perfect, since the three papers 
identified have one author in common. It would have been better 
to have at least one paper from someone else to mitigate the risk 
of missing papers not being linked to these three papers. However, 
given that it was decided to use the research question in [11] as a 
starting point no action was taken.   
4.3 Iteration 1 
From the start set of three papers, both backward and forward 
snowballing were conducted. 
4.3.1 Backward Snowballing 
In backward snowballing, the references of the three included 
papers are studied to identify more papers to include in the study. 
Only references in the time frame studied are considered. The 
three papers are evaluated one at the time. 
P1 includes 17 references where one reference is already included 
and one reference is already excluded. This leaves 15 references 
to evaluate. Four references are excluded based on publication 
year, and four references are excluded based on title or type of 
publication. Two references identified as candidates based on 
their title (denoted P6 and P8 below). Three papers were 
identified based on how they were used when referring to them 
(denoted P4, P5 and P7 below), and two papers were excluded 
based on the place and context of the reference. The full text of 
the five candidate papers were evaluated to avoid using a paper in 
the snowballing procedure that later may be excluded, since final 
inclusion must be based on the full paper. All five papers were 
judged as relevant and hence included in the study. Thus, the 
following five papers were added to the list of papers to be 
included: 
P4. Briand, L.C., K. El-Emam, K. Maxwell, D. Surmann, I. 
Wieczorek. An Assessment and Comparison of Common 
Cost 
Estimation 
Models. 
Proceedings 
of 
the 
21st 
International Conference on Software Engineering, ICSE 99, 
1999, pp. 313-322. 
P5. Briand, L.C., T. Langley, I. Wieczorek. A Replicated 
Assessment 
of 
Common 
Software 
Cost 
Estimation 
Techniques. 
Proceedings 
of 
the 
22nd 
International 
Conference on Software Engineering, ICSE 20, 2000, pp. 
377-386.  

P6. Jeffery, R., .M. Ruhe and I. Wieczorek. A Comparative 
Study of Two Software Development Cost Modeling 
Techniques using Multi-organizational and Company-
specific Data. Information and Software Technology, 42, 
2000, pp. 1009-1016.  
P7. Jeffery, R., M. Ruhe and I. Wieczorek. Using Public Domain 
Metrics 
to 
Estimate 
Software 
Development 
Effort. 
Proceedings 7th International Software Metrics Symposium, 
London, IEEE Computer Society Press, 2001, pp. 16-27.  
P8. Wieczorek, I. and M. Ruhe. How Valuable is Company-
specific Data Compared to Multi-company Data for Software 
Cost Estimation? . Proceedings 8th International Software 
Metrics Symposium, Ottawa, IEEE Computer Society Press, 
June 2002, pp. 237-246. 
P2 has 18 references, but a majority of them are the same as for 
P1. Only four new references were identified. Neither the title nor 
the place and context of the references gave definitive information 
about whether or not to include or exclude the four papers. Thus, 
the abstract was first studied and it was still inconclusive, and 
hence the full papers were evaluated. After having gone through 
the full papers, it was decided that all four papers should be 
excluded. 
P3 includes 21 references with many references in common with 
P1 and P2. In total six new references were identified. One was 
excluded based on the publication year and three were excluded 
based on the titles. The other two papers were candidates for 
inclusion. One paper was identified based on the title (P10) and 
one was identified from the place and context of the reference 
(P9). The full text of the papers was evaluated and it was decided 
to include both papers. The two papers included are: 
P9. Lefley, M., and M.J. Shepperd, Using Genetic Programming 
to Improve Software Effort Estimation Based on General 
Data Sets, Proceedings of GECCO 2003, LNCS 2724, 
Springer-Verlag, pp. 2477-2487, 2003. 
P10. Maxwell, K., L.V. Wassenhove, and S. Dutta, Performance 
Evaluation of General and Company Specific Models in 
Software Development Effort Estimation, Management 
Science, 45(6), June, pp. 787-803, 1999. 
4.3.2 Forward Snowballing 
In forward snowballing, the papers citing the three papers in the 
start set are evaluated. The citation analysis is conducted using 
Google Scholar. Given that the three papers in the start set are 
published in the end of the time frame considered, it is no surprise 
that there are few citations. The time frame studied is 1995-2005, 
and the three papers are published in 2004, 2004 and 2005 
respectively. Five papers cite P1, but all of them are in the 
tentative start set (C1-C13). The situation is similar for P2 and P3. 
Four papers cite P2 and one paper cites P3 in the time frame 
studied, and once again the papers are already in the tentative start 
set. Thus, no new papers were identified from forward 
snowballing from the start set (P1-P3). 
4.3.3 Summary of Status 
The tentative start set included 13 candidates, which were 
evaluated. From these 13 candidates, three papers were included 
in the study. From these three papers, 25 candidates were 
evaluated (15 from P1, 4 from P2 and 6 from P3) from the 
backward snowballing. Seven new papers were included, denoted 
P4-P10. No new candidates needed to be evaluated based on the 
forward snowballing. In total 38 papers have been evaluated so far 
and 10 papers have been included in the study. 
4.4 Iteration 2 
The seven new papers identified (P4-P10) go into the first 
iteration. Thus, first backward snowballing is conducted for these 
seven papers and then a forward snowballing is done too. 
4.4.1 Backward Snowballing 
P4 includes 33 references, and 28 of them are perceived as new. 
Here it should be noted that given the number of references 
studied, there is always a risk that the same reference is studied 
more than once. The reason being that it is not deemed efficient to 
put a number of references into a tool, which later are excluded 
immediately and hence there may be some random errors in the 
actual numbers. For example, among the perceived new 28 
references, a paper already evaluated maybe hiding but the 
researcher may not remember.  
Out of the 28 references, 14 of them are excluded based on the 
publication year and 12 references are excluded based on the title. 
Only two references call for a closer examination. For these two 
papers, the places and context of the reference were identified in 
the paper, and it was concluded that none of them should be 
included. Thus, no new paper was identified from P4. 
P5 has 32 references, but a large number of them have already 
been examined. In total, 12 references are perceived as new. Out 
of these 12 references, three references are excluded based on the 
publication year and the others are excluded based on the title. 
Thus, no new paper was identified from P5. 
P6 includes 19 references, and the situation is quite similar as for 
P5. Only eight new references are identified. Two references are 
excluded based on publication year and the other six references 
are excluded based on title. Once again no new papers are 
identified. 
P7 has 31 references, and nine of them are perceived as new. 
These nine are examined. It is concluded that three references can 
be excluded based on the publication year and five are excluded 
based on the title. It leaves one paper for further examination. The 
place and context of the reference to this paper is investigated, and 
it is concluded to exclude the paper. No new papers are included 
from P7. 
P8 includes 28 references, and only one of them is new. The new 
paper is excluded based on title. 
P9 has also 28 references, but in this case 18 references are 
perceived as new. Although having many new references, no new 
paper is identified for inclusion. Six references are excluded based 
on the year and the remaining 12 references are excluded based on 
their title. 
P10 is the oldest paper of those included, and hence the following 
outcome is not so surprising. P10 includes 28 references with 21 
of them being perceived as new. Unfortunately, all 21 references 
left are excluded based on the publication year. 
In 
summary, 
97 
(28+12+8+9+1+18+21) 
references 
were 
examined after having removed those that had already been 
investigated. A large majority of the 97 references were excluded 
based on publication year or title. For only three references there 
was a need to look in the paper for the place and context of the 
reference. In all other cases, the references could be excluded 
based on either publication year or the title of the reference. 

4.4.2 Forward Snowballing 
The next step is to examine the seven papers from a forward 
snowballing point of view. This includes examining the citation to 
the seven papers within the studied time frame (1995-2005). The 
outcome of the examination of these seven papers is as follows: 
62 candidates for inclusion cite P4. 11 of these have already been 
examined. 40 candidates are excluded based on the information 
available in Google Scholar, which includes publication year, type 
of publication, language and title. This leaves 11 candidates. The 
abstract is examined for these 11 candidates, and it is concluded to 
exclude 10 of them. One paper is viewed as a candidate for 
inclusion, and it is decided to include the paper after having 
investigated the full paper. The new paper is: 
P11. E. Mendes, N. Mosley and S. Counsell, “Early Web Size 
Measures and Effort Prediction for Web Costimation”, 
Proceedings 
Ninth 
International 
Software 
Metrics 
Symposium, pp. 18-39, 2003. 
P5 has 74 relevant citations in Google Scholar. 37 of these 
citations have already been examined and 36 of the citations were 
excluded based on the information available in Google Scholar. 
Thus, only one abstract was investigated and it was decided to 
exclude the paper. 
36 citations are found for P6. A majority of these have already 
been examined (26 candidates citing P6), and the other 10 
candidates for inclusion are excluded based on the information 
available in Google Scholar. 
P7 has 47 citations in Google Scholar, and 31 of them have 
already been examined. The remaining 16 candidates are excluded 
based on the information available in Google Scholar. 
12 candidates for inclusion cite P8. 10 of these citations have 
already been examined and the other two citations can be 
excluded based on the information provided in Google Scholar. 
Only three citations are identified for P9. Two of them have 
already been examined and the third can be excluded based on 
information available in Google Scholar. 
Finally, P10 has 17 citations in Google Scholar. Eight of these 
citations have already been examined and the other nine citations 
can be excluded based on the information available in Google 
Scholar. 
In summary, 126 citations have been examined for these seven 
papers (51+37+10+16+2+1+9) after having removed those that 
have already been examined. Most of the papers were excluded 
based on information available in Google Scholar and only 12 
abstracts were read to make the decisions. At the end, only one 
paper was included based on the forward snowballing in Iteration 
2. 
4.5 Iteration 3 
Given that Iteration 2 only identified one paper, the backward and 
forward snowballing become easy in the third iteration. In the 
backward snowballing, it is noted that P11 has 39 references.  
Four of them are excluded based on the publication year, and 13 
references have already been examined. The remaining 22 
references are excluded based on the title. Moving on to forward 
snowballing, P11 is cited by seven candidates for inclusion. All 
seven of them are excluded based on information available in 
Google Scholar. 
In summary, the second iteration resulted in examining 33 
(4+22+7) additional candidates for inclusion. 
4.6 Efficiency 
One important efficiency measure for systematic literature studies 
is the number of included papers in relation to the total number of 
candidate papers examined. It is well known that there is a large 
risk for noise, i.e. papers that preferably should never have been 
examined since they were not included at the end. If looking at the 
efficiency in the different steps: 
Number of investigated papers: 
• 
Start set: 13 candidates for start set and 3 papers were 
included, i.e. efficiency = 3/13 =23%. 
• 
Iteration 1: 25 candidates from snowballing from start set, 
and 7 papers were included, i.e. efficiency = 7/25 = 28%. 
• 
Iteration 2: 223 candidates for inclusion were generated in 
backward and forward snowballing, only one paper was 
included, i.e. efficiency 1/223 = 0.4%.  
• 
Iteration 3: 33 candidates were examined and no paper was 
included, and hence the efficiency becomes 0%. 
The overall efficiency becomes (3+7+1+0)/(13+25+223+33) = 
3.7%. It is important to note that the efficiency is calculated on all 
candidates. If removing those in backward snowballing where the 
decision is taken either on publication year (trivial) or title in 
reference list the efficiency increases. The papers in forward 
snowballing are handled in the same way, due to that they require 
either that the information in Google Scholar is read or going to 
the actual paper. Then the overall efficiency increases 
substantially. In the backward and forward snowballing from the 
three papers in the start set, the abstract was examined for 12 
papers and five of these were included. Here, four full papers 
were read that were not included. In Iteration 2, 12 abstracts were 
read and one paper was included. The total efficiency with this 
calculation becomes: 
Start set: 
• 
3 of 13 from Start set (as before) 
Backward:  
• 
7 of 12 from Iteration 1 (instead of 7 of 25) 
• 
0 of 3 from Iteration 2 (instead of 3 of 97) 
• 
0 of 0 from Iteration 3 (instead of 0 of 26) 
Forward: 
• 
1 of 133 (0+126+7) from the three different sets after the 
start set. 
If removing the candidates where they were removed either on 
publication year in the reference list or on title, the efficiency 
becomes: 
(10+1)/(28+133) 
= 
6.8% 
with 
the 
backward 
snowballing being very effective. 
However, it must be noted that it is a delicate balance to not be 
too restrictive on titles. If being very restrictive on titles, the 
following papers would not have been included: P4, P5, P7, P9 
and P11. 
4.7 Authors 
If following the snowballing procedure as described in Section 3 
and illustrated in Figure 1, authors of included papers should be 
contacted. Thus, snowballing should not only be on papers, but 
also on authors. This has not been done since several of the 

authors of the included papers also authored the systematic 
literature review being replicated here.  Furthermore, any 
responses from the authors may be biased by already having seen 
the published systematic literature review. Otherwise, the 
following authors would have been candidates to contact: 
• 
Authored more than one paper: Briand, Jeffrey, Kitchenham, 
Maxwell, Mendes, Ruhe and Wieczorek. 
• 
Authored one paper: Counsell, Dutta, El Emam, Harrison, 
Lefley, Lokan, Mosely, Shepperd, Surmann, Triggs and 
Wassenhove. 
Other complementary searches were not done either since the 
objective is to compare snowballing with a database-first-
approach in a similar way as in [19], although with a better 
specified procedure for using snowballing. 
4.8 Citation Matrix and Timeline 
To understand the referencing and citing between the papers, a 
citation matrix is created for illustration purposes. Table 1 shows 
how the eleven papers refer to each other, denoted with “X”. For 
example, it can be seen how P2 refer to P4-P8 (row 2), and how 
P10 is cited by P3, P4, P6 and P9 (column 10). For reason of 
space in the table, the paper numbers are given without the 
preceding “P”.  
In Table 1, it can be seen how P10 does not refer to any of the 
other papers, this is no surprise if looking at the timeline of the 
publications. The timeline is as follows: 
1999: 10 and 4; 2000: 5 and 6; 2001: 7; 2002: 8;  
 
2003: 9 and 11; 2004: 2 and 1 and 2005: 3 
The timeline means that Table 1 can be complemented with 
information about possibility to cite. Table 1 is complemented 
with this information by introducing “-“ when a paper cannot be 
referenced due to it not being published yet. For example, for P10 
the row is filled with “-“, since P10 could not refer to any of the 
other papers, and the column for P10 is left with empty cells since 
all other papers could have cited this paper given that it was 
published first. This may not be entirely true for two reasons: 1) it 
takes time for a paper to be published so although it looks like it 
should be available it may not have been at the point in time when 
another paper was written, and 2) authors are aware of their own 
papers and can cite them even if they are not officially published 
yet (as P2 is cited by P11). Independently, Table 1 provides some 
additional information by introducing “-“ as a sign for most likely 
not being able to cite another paper. 
A closer look at Table 1 provides some interesting observations: 
• 
The timeline together with Table 1 show that the three papers 
from the start set (P1-P3) are relatively new in the studied 
time frame. Thus, most other papers are found through 
backward snowballing. 
• 
P10 may not have received the citations it deserves despite it 
being the first study published, only four out of ten papers 
cite it. 
• 
P11 is not cited by any of the other papers, despite three 
papers being published after its publication. This is 
surprising in particular since P1-P3 have one author in 
common with P11. 
It is worth noting that finding one of the eleven papers in Table 1 
means that the other papers can be found with snowballing. It 
does not matter which paper is identified; the other papers will be 
found. This illustrates one of the strengths with snowballing, i.e. 
papers may be found even if they use different terminology but 
the authors within the area refer to each other despite these 
differences. 
Table 1. Citation matrix. 
 
Cited 
Ref. 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
1 
 
X 
- 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
 
 
 
2 
- 
 
- 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
 
 
 
3 
X 
X 
 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
- 
4 
- 
- 
- 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
X 
- 
5 
- 
- 
- 
X 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
 
- 
6 
- 
- 
- 
X 
X 
 
- 
- 
- 
X 
- 
7 
- 
- 
- 
X 
X 
X 
 
- 
- 
 
- 
8 
- 
- 
- 
X 
X 
X 
X 
 
- 
 
- 
9 
- 
- 
- 
 
 
 
X 
 
 
X 
- 
10 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
 
- 
11 
- 
X 
- 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
 
 
 
 
4.9 Reflections 
4.9.1 Ten Lessons Learned from Snowballing 
The actual use of the snowballing procedure presented in Section 
3 comes with ten lessons learned: 
1. 
Direct exclusion in reference lists are very quickly done 
when it comes to basic criteria such as, for example, 
language, publication year and type of publication. The extra 
work from these is negligible. 
2. 
A large number of references are found in several papers. It 
is particularly obvious when it comes to papers by the same 
authors. This has some implication, either it means that a 
good portion of the papers in the area has been captured or a 
cluster of papers has been found (e.g. overlap in authors), 
and other clusters may exist. This comes back to the 
necessity to identify a good start set, i.e. to avoid bias. 
3. 
It is very difficult to decide whether or not to exclude a paper 
or evaluate it on the next level, for example, to exclude a 
paper based on its title, or read the abstract or even read the 
full paper. This is an important balance. On the one hand, it 
generates a lot of work to read the full text of papers that are 
excluded, but on the other hand, it is important to not exclude 
papers early that actually should be included. 
4. 
In backward snowballing, it is recommended to iterate 
between the reference list and the place and context for the 
reference in the paper. Once a paper is found for inclusion, 
then look at other papers referred to in a similar way. They 
may be strong candidates for inclusion too. 
5. 
In forward snowballing, for papers included, look where the 
paper leading to the new paper is referenced and identify 
papers referenced in a similar way. This is easily missed in 
backward snowballing since the paper leading to the new 
paper (through forward snowballing) is already found and 
hence it is typically not looked at in the backward 
snowballing.  

6. 
The papers to be examined for a specific paper may very 
depending on the order in which the papers are investigated. 
In other words, a paper is examined the first time it is found, 
which means that the number of papers to be investigated 
varies. However, the number of papers in each step in the 
snowballing procedure should be stable. 
7. 
The frequency of papers identified in each step (Start set, 
Iteration 1, Iteration 2 and so forth) should be tracked. If 
having a good start set, the number of new papers to be 
included ought to decrease for each step.  
8. 
If the frequency of detecting new papers is not decreasing 
substantially consider doing a new search with synonyms to 
the words used from the research question, since it may 
indicate that a cluster of papers has been missed, see also 
item 2. 
9. 
It is recommended to create a citation matrix, since it 
provides information about citation patterns. A citation 
matrix with many blank cells is an indication that other 
papers may have been missed. This analysis does not help if 
an independent cluster of papers exists. 
10. A timeline helps in establishing possibilities for citations and 
it also gives some indications on the activities in relation to 
the area studied in the systematic literature study. 
In summary, the replication was straightforward, and the actual 
case was very suited for snowballing given that finding one of the 
papers finally included papers meant that all the other papers 
would be found through snowballing. 
4.9.2 Validity Threats 
The main threat is that the researcher read the original study 
before deciding to conduct the replication. However, this is very 
hard to avoid since the main reason to replicate the study was 
driven by having read it and being convinced that it would be an 
interesting case to both illustrate and evaluate the snowballing 
approach to conducting systematic literature studies. 
Having said this, the replication was run 6-12 months after 
reading the paper, which means that the researcher does not 
remember all details of the original study. However, the 
researcher did remember approximately the expected number of 
papers to find. The researcher did not remember the exact number, 
but remembered that the number of papers found in the original 
studies were in the interval 10-19 papers. This may have affected 
the decisions on inclusion and exclusion. Independently, if it has 
affected the outcome it has only affected where the decisions are 
taken and not the actual number of papers examined in the 
replication. 
4.10 Comparison 
The same papers are identified. Nine studies are in common with 
both previous systematic literature reviews presented in [11]. In 
[11], it is noted that one study should have been excluded due to 
the type of analysis conducted. The analysis was not conducted to 
this detail here, since the main objective is to evaluate the 
snowballing procedure. However, it is interesting to note that the 
paper to exclude is P11, which somewhat surprisingly was not 
cited by P1-P3. Thus, the citation matrix may indicate some issues 
that need a more detailed investigation. 
It is difficult to compare efficiency numbers. What does it mean to 
look at a paper in the reference list?  Should papers denoted 
“retrieved” in [11] be compared with all papers in the reference 
list, or should those being removed based on publication year, 
non-peer reviewed papers or papers that have already been 
included not be counted? The papers denoted “Detailed reviewed” 
in [11] are compared with those where either place of reference, 
abstract or full paper were evaluated here. This gives the results in 
Table 2. 
Table 2. Efficiency comparison. 
 
Review 1 [11] 
Review 2 [11] 
Snowballing 
Detailed 
24 
38 
38 
 
If using the papers studied in detail as a efficiency measure, then 
the different approaches requires about the same effort. 
Unfortunately, the actual effort for conducting the different 
reviews is not available for comparison. However, further studies 
are needed to better understand the advantages and disadvantages 
with different approaches and how they may complement each 
other in the best possible way. One of the main benefits with 
snowballing is its focus on papers actually referenced or papers 
citing papers included, and hence there is a possibility that the 
noise is less than using a database approach. 
5. DISCUSSION SNOWBALLING 
One of the main advantages of snowballing is that it starts from 
relevant papers and then uses these to drive the further study. 
Reference lists are quite easily examined and when combined 
with the place and context of the reference, it becomes in most 
cases quite straightforward to identify relevant papers. The 
citation analysis may result in examining a large number of papers 
(when a paper is highly cited), but the information in Google 
Scholar is in most cases quite helpful to make a decision about 
tentative inclusion or exclusion.  
Snowballing should not necessarily be seen as an alternative to 
database searches. Different approaches to identifying relevant 
literature should preferably used to ensure the best possible 
coverage of the literature. Future research is needed when it 
comes to several areas: 1) Identification of a good start set of 
papers for snowballing, 2) Evaluation of the efficiency for 
different approaches to systematic literature searches, and 3) 
Determination of advantages and disadvantages of different 
approach, in particular in different type of literature searches (e.g. 
broad area or very focused area), and 4) Formulation of a good 
hybrid approach where different approaches to identifying the 
relevant research literature complement each other. 
In particular, it should be noted that snowballing is particularly 
useful for extending a systematic literature study, since new 
studies almost certainly must cite at least one paper among the 
previously relevant studies or the systematic study already 
conducted in the area. Thus, snowballing is by deduction a better 
approach than a database search for extending systematic 
literature studies. The actual evidence for this assertion is left for 
further research. 
6. SUMMARY 
The two objectives stated in Section 1 are both fulfilled. A 
procedure for snowballing has been formulated, and it has 
successfully been illustrated and evaluated. The snowballing 
procedure is detailed in several steps including both backward and 
forward snowballing. Ten lessons learned from using the 
snowballing procedure have been reported, which hopefully will 

help others using snowballing in their systematic literature 
studies.  
The replication illustrated the usefulness of the snowballing 
procedure, and the actual outcome from the replication was 
similar to the outcome of the original systematic literature 
reviews. The snowballing procedure was particularly suitable for 
this case, since it turned out that it was sufficient to find one of the 
10-11 papers to be able to find the other papers. 
To conclude, a systematic approach to snowballing as the 
procedure formulated here is definitively an alternative to use as a 
starting point for a systematic literature study instead of always 
start by searching different databases. The next challenge is to 
figure out under which circumstances the snowballing procedure 
is to prefer over the database approach. 
Finally, it should be noted that a key to success for using the 
snowballing procedure for systematic literature studies is the place 
and the context of the references in both backward and forward 
snowballing. In addition, a citation matrix and a timeline have 
been proposed to get a better overview of papers in the area of the 
systematic literature study. 
7. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 
The author wishes to express his sincere thanks to Samireh Jalali, 
Deepika Badampudi and Rafael Prikladnicki for inspiring and 
valuable discussion regarding systematic literature studies in 
general and the use of snowballing in particular.  
The Industrial Excellence Center EASE – Embedded Applications 
Software Engineering, (http://ease.cs.lth.se) partially funded this 
research. 
8. REFERENCES 
[1] Kitchenham, B. A., Dybå, T. and Jørgensen, M. 2004. 
Evidence-based software engineering. In Proceedings of 27th 
IEEE International Software Engineering Conference, 273-
281, IEEE Computer Society, 2004.  
[2] Webster, J. and Watson, R. T. 2002. Analyzing the past to 
prepare for the future: Writing a literature review. MIS 
Quarterly 26, 2, xiii-xxiii. 
[3] Pickard, L., Kitchenham B. A. and Jones P. 1998. Combining 
empirical results in software engineering. Information & 
Software Technology 40, 14, 811–821. 
[4] Miller, J. 1999. Can results from software engineering 
experiments be safely combined?. In Proceedings IEEE 6th 
International Symposium on Software Metrics, 152-158. 
[5] Hayes, W. 1999. Research synthesis in software engineering: 
A case for meta-analysis. In Proceedings 6th IEEE 
International Software Metrics Symposium, 143–151. 
[6] Basili V. R., Shull F. and Lanubile F. 1999. Building 
knowledge through families of experiments. IEEE 
Transactions on Software Engineering 25, 4, 456–473.  
[7] Kitchenham B. A. and Charters S. 2007. Guidelines for 
performing systematic literature reviews in software 
engineering. Version 2.3, EBSE Technical Report, EBSE-
2007-01, Keele University. 
[8] Petersen K., Feldt R., Mujtaba S. and Mattsson M. 2008. 
Systematic mapping studies in software engineering. In 
Proceedings 12th International Conference on Evaluation 
and Assessment in Software Engineering. 
[9] Kitchenham B. A., Budgen, D. and Brereton, O. P. 2011. 
Using mapping studies as the basis for further research – a 
participant-observer case study. Information and Software 
Technology 53, 6, 638-651.  
[10] Wohlin C. and Prikladnicki R. 2013. Systematic literature 
reviews in software engineering. Information and Software 
Technology 55, 6, 919-920. 
[11] MacDonell, S., Shepperd, M., Kitchenham, B. A. and 
Mendes, E. 2010. How reliable are systematic reviews in 
empirical software engineering?. IEEE Transactions on 
Software Engineering 36, 5, 676–687. 
[12] Wohlin, C., Runeson, P., da Mota Silveira Neto, P. A., 
Engström, E., do Carmo Machado, I. and de Almeida, E. S. 
2013. On the reliability of mapping studies in software 
engineering. Journal of Systems and Software 86, 10, 2594-
2610. 
[13] Kitchenham, B. A., Brereton, O. P., Budgen, D., Turner, M., 
Bailey, J. and Linkman, S. 2009. Systematic literature 
reviews in software engineering: A systematic literature 
review. Information and Software Technology 51, 1, 7-15. 
[14] Kitchenham, B. A., Pretorius, R., Budgen, D., Brereton, O. 
P., Turner, M., Niazi, M. and Linkman, S. 2010. Systematic 
literature reviews in software engineering: A tertiary study. 
Information and Software Technology 52, 8, 792-805. 
[15] Greenhalgh T. and Peacock, R. 2005. Effectiveness and 
efficiency of search methods in systematic reviews of 
complex evidence: Audit of primary sources. BMJ 331, 
7524, 1064–1065. 
[16] Skoglund, M. and Runeson, P. 2009. Reference-based search 
strategies in systematic reviews. In Proceedings 13th 
Evaluation and Assessment in Software Engineering, 31-40. 
[17] Kitchenham, B. A., Brereton, O. P., Li, Z., Budgen, D. and 
Burn, A. 2011. Repeatability of systematic literature reviews. 
In Proceedings of the 15th International Conference on 
Evaluation and Assessment in Software Engineering, 46–55. 
[18] Zhang, H., Babar, M. A. and Tell, P. 2011. Identifying 
relevant studies in software engineering. Information and 
Software Technology 53, 6, 625-637. 
[19] Jalali, S. and Wohlin, C. 2012. Systematic literature studies: 
Database searches vs. backward snowballing. In Proceedings 
6th International Symposium on Empirical Software 
Engineering and Measurement, 29-38. 
[20] Jalali, S. and Wohlin, C. 2012. Global software engineering 
and agile practices: A systematic review. Journal of 
Software: Evolution and Process 24, 6, 643-659.  
[21] Smite, D., Wohlin, C., Galvina, Z. and Prikladnicki, R. 2012. 
An empirically based terminology and taxonomy for global 
software engineering. Empirical Software Engineering: An 
International Journal 19, 1, 105-153.
 
