agronomy
Review
Technologies for Forecasting Tree Fruit Load and Harvest
Timing—From Ground, Sky and Time
Nicholas Todd Anderson 1,*
, Kerry Brian Walsh 1
and Dvoralai Wulfsohn 2


Citation: Anderson, N.T.; Walsh,
K.B.; Wulfsohn, D. Technologies for
Forecasting Tree Fruit Load and
Harvest Timing—From Ground, Sky
and Time. Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409.
https://doi.org/10.3390/
agronomy11071409
Academic Editor: Xiangjun Zou
Received: 27 May 2021
Accepted: 8 July 2021
Published: 14 July 2021
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral
with regard to jurisdictional claims in
published maps and institutional afﬁl-
iations.
Copyright: © 2021 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed
under
the
terms
and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
1
Institute for Future Farming Systems, Central Queensland University, Rockhampton 4701, Australia;
k.walsh@cqu.edu.au
2
Geco Enterprises Ltd., San Vicente de Tagua, Tagua 2970000, Chile; dvor.wulfsohn@gmail.com
*
Correspondence: nicholas.anderson@cqumail.com
Abstract: The management and marketing of fruit requires data on expected numbers, size, quality
and timing. Current practice estimates orchard fruit load based on the qualitative assessment of
fruit number per tree and historical orchard yield, or manually counting a subsample of trees. This
review considers technological aids assisting these estimates, in terms of: (i) improving sampling
strategies by the number of units to be counted and their selection; (ii) machine vision for the direct
measurement of fruit number and size on the canopy; (iii) aerial or satellite imagery for the acquisition
of information on tree structural parameters and spectral indices, with the indirect assessment of
fruit load; (iv) models extrapolating historical yield data with knowledge of tree management and
climate parameters, and (v) technologies relevant to the estimation of harvest timing such as heat
units and the proximal sensing of fruit maturity attributes. Machine vision is currently dominating
research outputs on fruit load estimation, while the improvement of sampling strategies has potential
for a widespread impact. Techniques based on tree parameters and modeling offer scalability, but
tree crops are complicated (perennialism). The use of machine vision for ﬂowering estimates, fruit
sizing, external quality evaluation is also considered. The potential synergies between technologies
are highlighted.
Keywords: yield; estimation; machine vision; remote sensing; correlative; models; fruit; tree; review
1. Introduction
1.1. The Need for Fruit Load Forecast
This review considers advances in methods for the yield forecast of tree fruit. Such
forecasts can be made at a tree, orchard, whole farm or regional level, depending on
the management task. At a farm level, forecasts can inform grower decisions around
in-season agronomic practices such as thinning, postharvest requirements such as harvest
labor, transportation, storage, and requirements for consumables such as trays and inserts.
Improved monitoring also offers great potential for the accumulation of reliable data across
time. An experienced agronomist will be able to utilize such a resource, combining this
information with knowledge of fruit and tree physiology to provide current season advice
and to advise on management practices to optimize orchard development.
Forecasts are also critical to the value chain to inform marketing strategy and prac-
tice. For example, a typical advertising campaign is planned over four weeks ahead of
harvest. In general, the longer or more involved the value chain, the more demand for
accurate forecasts.
A general target for yield forecast is for an estimate within ±5% to 10% of the actual
yield, with greater accuracy required for industries tied to processing industries or to other
markets of set size, e.g., export markets. For example, winemakers desire errors of no more
than 2–3% on forecast production, while a tree fruit producer supplying multiple and easily
accessed domestic markets might accept a 10–20% forecast error, depending on production
volumes, or operate without a forecast.
Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409. https://doi.org/10.3390/agronomy11071409
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/agronomy

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
2 of 37
Yield forecast has multiple components, including the at-harvest fruit number, size
and quality, and harvest timing. Fruit number is the primary determinant of yield, while
fruit size and quality are key attributes in terms of consumer acceptability, and therefore,
achievable pricing. In-ﬁeld measurements allow for the forward estimation of the propor-
tions of fruit class distributions on these attributes at harvest, and thus for market planning.
The timing of fruit maturation is determined by the timing of ﬂowering and subsequent
growth conditions. The combination of harvest timing and fruit load information can be
used to estimate a weekly harvest schedule. Advances in techniques for the forecasting of
each of these components of yield are presented in the current review.
1.2. Literature Base
In this document, the term ‘orchard’ is used to refer to a management block of fruit
trees, i.e., of a common genotype, planting date, irrigation scheduling, management history,
harvest unit, etc. A ‘typical’ orchard size is around 1000 plants in 2 ha, but this is dependent
on commodity and management practice.
A recent review of the use of machine learning for crop yield prediction reported 567
relevant studies; however, this work primarily refers to annual crops [1]. For the narrower
topic of tree fruit yield forecast, the scientiﬁc publication rate has risen steeply from a low
base in the last decade [2] (Figure 1).
 
Figure 1. Annual scientiﬁc paper publication rate as indexed by Scopus records (doa 18/4/2021) for
the keywords ‘tree AND fruit AND yield AND estimation’.
Publications on tree fruit yield estimation have focused on the major crops of apple
and citrus, and the tropical crop, mango (68% of records), with researchers primarily located
in China, the USA and Australia (Table 1). The majority of work has addressed the use of
machine vision using RGB cameras (65% of records), but attention has also been given to
the correlation of fruit load to tree structural parameters, as measured proximally (in ﬁeld)
or remotely (by an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle, UAV, or satellite), and to the use of time series
and climate data. Work on the use of stereology to streamline manual sampling methods
was dominated by the work of Wulfsohn and co-workers. However, to our knowledge, the
only reviews on tree fruit crop load estimation published in the last decade have been on
the use of deep learning for tree fruit detection using machine vision [3] rather than fruit
load estimation per se.

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
3 of 37
Table 1. Literature base as indexed by Scopus records (doa 8/2/2021) for the keywords ‘fruit AND
yield AND estimation’ for the years 2010–2021. # represents number.
Crop
# of Records
%
Country
# of Records
%
Apple
32
33
China
38
21
Mango
19
20
United States
34
19
Citrus
17
18
Spain
29
16
Other
16
16
Australia
20
11
Kiwi
4
4
India
16
9
Grape
3
3
Germany
14
8
Olive
3
3
Brazil
11
6
Tomato
3
3
France
11
6
Italy
9
5
Method
# of records
%
Estimation level
# of records
%
MV RGB
65
59
image
36
38
Satellite
10
9
tree
28
30
MV
Hyperspectral
8
7
orchard
19
20
Proximal indirect
8
7
region
11
12
UAV
7
6
Historical/climate
6
5
Manual
6
5
With respect to the topic of the prediction of the time of harvest maturity, a Scopus
keyword search (doa 9/4/2021) using the keywords of ‘prediction AND fruit AND harvest
AND maturity AND timing’ yields 196 results over the ten-year period (2011–2020). Of
these reports, the majority refer to studies using a heat unit methodology, with a few papers
referring to the development of heat unit models, or to the use of other indices for the
estimation of harvest maturation.
1.3. Types of Models
An empirical model (also referred to as a descriptive model) achieves a forecast
through a correlation between measurable variables and the attribute of interest, without
regard to the mechanism of the relationship. Empirical models describe the data for the
conditions under which the data were collected, but may ‘break’ when used in predictions
of future populations, especially when seasonal conditions differ signiﬁcantly to those for
the populations used in development of the model. A mechanistic model (also known as
an explanatory model) is based on physical, chemical, or biological laws describing the
behavior of constituting parts. Mechanistic models are useful in developing an understand-
ing of a system, but predictive power is limited by the understanding of the system and
the complexity of the model.
In a 1998 review of forward estimation of biomass production and yield of horticultural
crops, Marcelis et al. [4] noted that attempts to produce mechanistic models of production
were generally based on modeling photosynthetic capacity through inputs of leaf area
development, light interception, photosynthesis and respiration. In subsequent decades,
further attempts have been made to develop mechanistic models of tree fruit production,
with notable progress made, e.g., in the QualiTree model for peach trees [5]. These models
typically predict fruit growth through the consideration of the tree as a set of subunits
competing for resources such as light, photo-assimilates and water. The QualiTree model is
probably the most advanced tree fruit mechanistic model, although attempts for other tree
crops are advancing, e.g., for mango [6,7].
However, the inﬂuence of previous growing cycles increases the complexity of tree
fruit systems, as seen in irregular bearing between seasons [8]. This complexity hampers
the development of a mechanistic model to estimate production and has prevented the
practical use of such models for the forecast of fruit load [9]. This review does not further
consider the use of fully mechanistic models in tree fruit forecast, but rather focuses on

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
4 of 37
the use of empirical models based on direct count, either manual or machine vision, or on
correlation to environmental conditions or canopy attributes.
Tree fruit producers currently commonly rely on empirical models for the prediction
of harvest dates [4]. These models rely on the estimation of thermal time since ﬂowering or
a measure of a fruit attribute that is related to maturity.
2. Measurement of Fruit Number
2.1. Benchmarking
2.1.1. Reference Estimates
Any analytical procedure involving the comparison of one method to a ‘reference’
method should include an assessment of the error in the reference method. Methods for
fruit load estimation need to benchmark to a reference measurement. Where method
validation involves a small number of sample trees in the orchard, the reference value is
typically a human count of fruit on-tree, or a human count of fruit harvested from the tree.
Such estimates are not error free.
To benchmark a fruit load prediction at a whole orchard level, the reference estimate
is commonly estimated from the fruit packout report. However, Paliwal and Jain [10]
cautioned that self-reported crop data were not accurate enough for predictive model
training for a small holder grain production system, even when the use of the data was
explained to the contributors. Similar issues hold for the tree fruit production system.
Packhouse record keeping is often lacking, particularly if fruit from several producers or
multiple orchards per farm are processed in the same shift, or if orchards are harvested over
several dates. Further, harvesting operations may move across several orchards at a time,
such that tree crop packout data may not be organized to easily provide orchard level data.
The increasing adoption of ﬁeld bin identiﬁcation systems and farm data management
systems is improving this situation.
Packout fruit numbers can be estimated from records of the number of trays of a given
fruit number per tray. While rejected fruit are not packed, a weight is generally taken. The
fruit number can then be estimated using an average fruit weight, although the use of the
average weight of packed fruit will typically result in an underestimation of the rejected
fruit number, as a low fruit weight is a criterion for rejection.
The packout count can be expected to be less than the orchard fruit load as fruit
drop may occur between the time of load estimation and harvest as a result of extreme
climatic events, disease or abortion. Further, fruit may be left on-tree either accidentally or
deliberately as harvesters avoid under or over mature and defect fruit, and low yielding
canopy areas if paid on a piece rate. In the authors’ experience, counts of fruit left in
orchard after harvest range from <1 to >50%, e.g., between a ‘strip pick’ in which all fruit is
harvested, with sorting in the packhouse, and a poor management of harvest resourcing.
Harvest efﬁciency can be added into a forecasting model., e.g., the Australian Grape
Forecaster tool (https://www.fairport.com.au/en/features-en/grape-forecaster; accessed
on 19 April 2021) applies a set of factors for different harvest conditions, e.g., 90% for very
efﬁcient machine harvest [11].
Few published studies on tree fruit estimation present data on the error of the reference
technique. The presentation of such data is recommended for future reports.
2.1.2. Evaluation Metrics
A range of metrics may be used in the comparison of predicted and actual fruit
loads. Most yield estimation studies employ the use of the parameters of Root Mean
Square Error (RMSE), Relative RMSE (RRMSE), Mean Squared Error (MSE), Coefﬁcient of
determination (R2), or Mean Absolute Error (MAE), with a few studies employing variants
of these parameters such as Mean Absolute Percentage Error (MAPE), Lin’s Concordance
Correlation Coefﬁcient (CCC), Simple Average Ensemble (SAE), Reference Change Values
(RCV), and Matthews Correlation Coefﬁcient (MCC) [1], as deﬁned in Table 2. Useful terms
for the characterization of population variability is the coefﬁcient of error (CE), deﬁned as

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
5 of 37
the standard error of mean divided by the mean and coefﬁcient of variation (CV), deﬁned
as the standard deviation divided by the mean.
Table 2. Deﬁnition of evaluation metrics.
Term
Meaning
Equation
RMSE
The standard deviation of the prediction
residuals
RMSE =
q
∑n
i=1( ˆyi−yi)2
n
where ˆyi is the estimated value, yi is the observed
value and n is the sample size
RRMSE
RMSE relative to mean
RRMSE = RMSE
x
MSE
The average squared errors of prediction
residuals
MSE = 1
n
n
∑
i=1
(yi −ˆyi)2
R2
The proportion of the variance of one variable
that can be explained by the variance of the
second variable
R2 = 1 −∑n
i=1 (yi−µy)2
∑n
i=1 (yi−ˆyi)2
where µy is the mean of observed values
MAE
The average of the absolute values of prediction
residuals
MAE = ∑n
i=1| ˆyi−yi|
n
MAPE
The average of the absolute values of prediction
residuals divided by the actual values
MAPE = 1
n
n
∑
i=1
 yi−ˆyi
yi

CCC
Interpreted similarly to R2, but used to compare
two methods predictions or to measure
repeatability of repeats of a single method
CCC =
2pσyσˆy
σ2y+σ2
ˆy+(µy−µ ˆy)2
where σy represents the variability of either the
observed value or another variable and σˆy and µ ˆy
the variability and the mean of either the estimated
value or another variable
RCV
The minimal signiﬁcant difference between
temporally different measurements
RCV = ±q
r
2

σ2y + σ2
ˆy

where q is the quantile for the desired probability
from a standard normal distribution
MCC
Measures the agreement of binary classiﬁcations
MCC =
TP × TN −FP × FN
√
(TP + FP)(TP + FN)(TN + FP)(TN + FN)
where TP is true positives, TN is true negatives, FP is
false positives and FN is false negatives of binary
classiﬁcation
While these evaluation metrics are all distinct, generally, a report will only include
two or three of the metrics. Importantly, reports should include more than a correlation co-
efﬁcient, which confounds information on predictive error with sample standard deviation.
It is recommended that all reports include a metric related to the absolute deviation from
observed values (e.g., MSE, RMSE or MAPE).
2.2. Tree Evaluation and Historical Knowledge
Grower estimates of fruit load for a given orchard are often based on a visual as-
sessment of current crop ﬂowering or fruit load relative to previous years knowledge of
historical yield for that orchard. For example, an experienced orchardist could associate
the proportional area of fruit on canopy to yields of 20, 100 and 150 fruit per tree, or 8, 40
and 60 tonnes per ha, given a tree density of 400 trees/ha (Figure 2). An experienced ‘eye’
is needed for such estimates, both to gauge fruit load for a given tree, and to judge the
average load per tree in the orchard. While such estimates can be very good, human error
can also result in poor estimates, especially in the evaluation of extensive plantings and/or
of large trees with dense canopies.

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
6 of 37
Figure 2. Images of canopies associated with mango fruit loads of (a) 60, (b) 40 and (c) 8 tonnes per ha, with tree density of
400 trees/ha.
Attempts have been made to adopt the use of a fruit load density factor within other
methods. For example, Sarron et al. [9] described the use of a human expert to categorize
fruit load density to one of four classes as one input to a model for fruit load estimation.
Koirala et al. [12] described a machine vision-based classiﬁcation of canopy images to three
crop load densities using a ‘Xception_classiﬁcation’ model and a Silhouette score as a ﬁrst
step in a pipeline for a machine vision-based estimation of tree fruit load (see later sections).
2.3. Manual Fruit Count
2.3.1. Sample Size and Variance
The manual count of fruit for estimation of orchard crop load is a labor intensive and
tedious task. Counting is typically restricted to a sample of units (trees or sections of rows)
to reduce effort, but the number and selection of these sample units must be representative
of the orchard in order to achieve an accurate assessment of orchard fruit load.
Thompson [13] provides details on sampling strategies and statistics. Under ran-
dom sampling (without replacement), the sample mean x is an unbiased estimator of the
population mean µ. The variance of the estimator is given by
var(x) = (N −n)σ2
Nn
= (1 −f )σ2
n
(1)
where n = sample size, N = population size, f = ‘sampling fraction’ (the inverse probability)
and σ = population standard deviation. An unbiased estimator of this variance is obtained
by replacing the population standard deviation by the sample standard deviation, SD [13].
It may be intuitively recognized that the greater the variation between units, the
more units that should be included in the estimate. The required sample size depends on
population variability and not population size, although in practice, a larger population
also involves a larger area, and thus potential for higher variability in growing conditions
and plant history, and thus in yield. If the population size N is large compared to the
sample size n, the ‘power calculation’ can be used to estimate the required sample size n to
achieve an estimate of the mean or the total of a population from a random sample within
an acceptable error (e) by
n =
z SD
e
2
(2)
where z denotes the z score for the upper α/2 point of the normal distribution, SD is
sample standard deviation and e is the maximal allowable error (i.e., difference between

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
7 of 37
the estimate and the true value). This relationship can be restated in terms of the coefﬁcient
of variation (CV) and maximal percentage error (PE), as
n =
z CV
e
2
(3)
where CV =100 SD/x (%), PE = 100 e/x (%) and x is the mean.
As the sample size, n, approaches the population size, N, the equation for the sample
size includes the ﬁnite population correction (FPC) = (N – n)/ N = 1 – f, and the required
sample size can be written as
n∗=
n N
N + n
(4)
where n is calculated using Equation (2) or Equation (3). Equation (4) is typically employed
if n is 5% or more of N (Table 3).
These calculations require an estimate of population σ, which may be available from
prior experience or may involve a ‘double sampling’ strategy. In this strategy, a preliminary,
smaller sample of size n1 is taken and the sample SD is used to estimate (approximately)
the necessary sample size n using Equations (2)–(4). Then, a further sample of size (n −
n1) is taken from the remaining unsampled (N −n1) trees. A simple jackknife-like error
estimation can also be employed by splitting the count data into two sets and computing
the variance of the two estimates to roughly predict the variance and its rate of decrease
with n (see [14,15]).
Table 3. Calculated sample sizes n (Equation (3)) and adjusted sample size n∗(Equation (4)) required for SRS with a 90%
conﬁdence and a PE of 10% based on an estimated SD from a preliminary sample taken from the population of N trees.
Data from Anderson et al. [16]. # represents number.
Site
N (# Trees)
Average (#
Fruit/Tree)
SD (# Fruit/Tree)
n
(# Trees)
Equation (3)
n* (# Trees)
Equation (4)
n*/N(%)
1
469
88
82
234
156
33
2
486
259
102
42
38
8
3
1017
240
160
120
107
11
4
1100
80
34
49
47
4
5
224
59
36
100
69
31
6
1205
97
65
121
110
9
7
1091
201
55
20
20
2
8
1818
106
51
62
60
3
9
1176
77
61
169
148
13
10
1115
85
40
60
57
5
Only half of the orchards required a sample size of 5% or less of the trees.
In practical use, a 90% conﬁdence limit, i.e., z = 1.64, is reasonable to apply in Equa-
tions (2) and (3). With this limit, a population with a coefﬁcient of error (CE) = stan-
dard error of the mean (SEM)/mean of ~6% will have 90% of realizations fall within
SEM × z = 6.1×1.64 = 10% of the mean value, and 30% of realizations within 5%.
By way of examples, the estimated SD of fruit numbers per tree for a subsample of
18 trees from each orchard varied between 34 and 160 across 10 mango orchards (Table 3).
For Simple Random Sampling (SRS), a 90% conﬁdence interval with a maximal error
of 10% of the mean, the required ﬁnite population adjusted sample sizes derived using
Equations (3) and (4) were between 20 and 156 trees (Table 3). Observe that as n / N →0,
the difference between n and n∗is small, but at larger n/ N, n is an overly conservative
prediction of sample size (Equations (3) and (4)).
An orchard with high intrinsic variability, sometimes referred to as ‘biological variabil-
ity’, will provide samples with high within-sample variability, even for precise estimators.

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
8 of 37
To illustrate this, we can decompose the estimator variance into terms expressing the
‘intrinsic’ (or ‘biological’) variability, SD2
bio and the sampling variance SE2:
Var = SD2
obs = SD2
bio + SE2
(5)
where SD2
obs is the observed variance as calculated from the sample, and the SE is the stan-
dard error. The biological variance imposes a lower bound on the observed total variance.
2.3.2. Sampling Approaches
Sampling in the context of the estimation of tree fruit load has been described by
Wulfsohn [14]. These methods provide an estimate of the average number of fruits per tree,
with the total orchard fruit load achieved by multiplication of the mean tree fruit load and
number of trees in the orchard. In systematic sampling, the orchard total load is estimated
by knowing the ‘proportion’ (inverse probability) of the trees the sample represents. Brieﬂy,
several ‘uniform random probability-based’ sampling strategies are relevant, in which all
units of the populations have an equal probability of being selected:
(i) Simple Random Sampling (RS) with replacement. This procedure is the most
inefﬁcient of sampling designs but provides independent samples, which simpliﬁes many
statistical analyses. An unbiased estimate of the population mean (e.g., mean fruit load per
tree) is obtained.
(ii) RS without replacement. This procedure is close to (i) in terms of efﬁciency. If the
population is large, then the probability of choosing a unit of the population more than
once is extremely low, and it can be shown that the results obtained from sampling with
replacement are very close to the results obtained using sampling without replacement.
An unbiased estimate of the population mean is obtained.
RS provides no mechanism to improve the sampling effort based on spatial variability,
which almost always exists at some level within orchards. The only parameter that can be
controlled is the sample size, to ensure that it is large enough to capture the variability of
the population, and as Table 3 shows, these numbers can be very large.
(iii) Systematic uniform random (SUR) sampling achieves a compromise between the
precision of the estimate and effort to obtain samples. This method is superior to RS for
spatially heterogeneous autocorrelated populations [14]. Every mth unit is chosen from
a uniform random starting point, where m is the sampling interval. For example, fruit
number could be counted on every 20th tree, starting from a tree randomly chosen between
1 and 20. Care must be taken to choose a sampling period that avoids a similar periodicity
in the population. For example, a sampling period of 20 in an orchard with rows of 100
trees would result in sampling of trees in the same positions within each row. An unbiased
estimate of the population total (the total number of fruits in the orchard) is also achieved
as sample size x inverse probability, without explicit knowledge of the number of trees in
the orchard. Equations (2)–(4) are biased (conservative) for SUR sampling [17].
(iv) Stratiﬁed sampling involves dividing the population into relatively homogeneous
regions or strata, and then treating each stratum as a population. The advantage of stratiﬁed
sampling is that different sampling fractions may be used in each stratum with the aim of
reducing the estimator variance, allowing decreased sampling effort for the same accuracy
of estimation as an unstratiﬁed sampling strategy. Stratiﬁcation on fruit load estimation
requires use of a tree attribute with correlation to fruit load.
A methodology caveat for any system requiring a randomized selection is that a
random number generator or table should be used. This is necessary as humans are poor
at random selection [18].
The aim of a good sampling strategy is to capture the spatial variability of the orchard
in a small sample number. Under independent sampling, the CE will decrease by a power
of n−0.5 approximately, where n is the sample size [15]. An efﬁcient sample design will
produce low between-sample variance (different realizations of the sampling design should
provide similar estimates) and will have a steeper rate of decrease in CE than n−0.5.

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
9 of 37
The use of RS, systematic RS and stratified sampling procedures for tree fruit yield pre-
diction has been described in a number of studies [15,19–23]. For example, Miranda et al. [22]
demonstrated a 20–35% decrease in the sample size required for peach fruit load estimation
by use of a stratiﬁed sampling based on tree size and canopy density compared to an SRS
strategy. Tree size and canopy density were estimated by means of multispectral indices
obtained from UAV imagery.
Anderson et al. [16] compared several sampling strategies for a mango orchard (site
1 in Table 1) in which the fruit load of every tree was known. Stratiﬁcation to three
classes based on canopy area or volume did not result in a reduced total sample number
(Equation (2)), due to the poor correlation of these attributes to fruit load on a per tree basis
in this orchard. Stratiﬁcation on the basis of fruit load resulted in a 10% reduction in the
overall sampling effort compared to classless random sampling. These data were reworked
for a comparison of the efﬁciency of RS and SUR sampling of trees for the prediction of
the total fruit load from counts of an RS of 26 trees and a sampling fraction of 1/18 using
SUR (providing an average sample size of 26 trees (Figure 3). Under RS, the true CE was
estimated to be 16.5%, whereas under SUR, it was 11.5%. Doubling the sampling size to
52 trees under RS decreased the CE from 16.5 to 11.6%, whereas increasing the average
SUR sample size to 47 by sampling more trees per row reduced the CE from 11.5 to 6.6%
(equivalent to a maximal error of 10.8% with 90% probability). Thus, in this case, an RS
sampling strategy requires double the sample size of that required by a SUR strategy, for a
similar sampling error, and increasing sample size reduced the error at a higher rate for
SUR than SR.
Figure 3. Comparison of two sampling strategies, RS and SUR, in estimation of total fruit load (N(fr)) in a mango orchard in
which the fruit number on every tree is known (site 1 in Table 3). The orchard has 469 trees and high variability in tree fruit
load, with an average of 88 and SD = 89 fruit per tree (CV = 81%). The boxplots present estimates of fruit loading based on
250 realizations of 26 random samples using RS, compared to SUR sampling of rows with period 2 and trees-in-rows with
period 9, for a mean sample size of 26 trees.
This example demonstrates the potential for SUR sampling to provide a signiﬁcant
decrease in sampling effort compared to RS in an orchard with high spatial variability. SUR
is most efﬁcient when units in a sample are as heterogeneous as possible. Procedures to
accomplish this aim based on systematic or non-uniform sampling designs and ancillary
measurements that do not require stratiﬁcation are reviewed by Wulfsohn [14].
A multistage approach to sampling trees was described by Wulfsohn [14] and Wulf-
sohn et al. [24]. Sampling effort was reduced using a nested SUR methodology for the
sampling of branches and subunits. Rather than counting all fruit on sampled trees, fruits
were counted on every jth primary branch and every kth secondary branch of those primary
branches of the sampled tree from uniform random starting positions. The extra effort of
distinguishing the fruit associated with the sub-canopy sections was claimed to be more

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
10 of 37
than offset by the reduced total sampling effort. The methodology avoids two sources of
sampling bias that are common in traditional methods used by the industry: the surveyor
does not decide what trees or fruit to sample, as that is decided by a sampling algorithm,
and low counts are made on small portions of plants spread over the three-dimensional
(3D) orchard space, avoiding counting errors common when many fruits must be counted.
A handheld app was developed to assist in-ﬁeld implementation, calculating the position
of the next sample and allowing for data entry, randomized start allocations and the use
of semi-empirical error models to predict the sample size required to achieve a desired
conﬁdence criterion, typically a CE of 6–10% [25]. Wulfsohn et al. [15] demonstrated
the methodology in the estimation of the fruit load of apple, grape and kiwifruit. Fruit
load estimates for orchard rows were within 10% of the harvest fruit number for 11 of
14 orchards.
When a measured attribute that is highly correlated with fruit loading is available,
further improvements are obtainable using more sophisticated sampling designs. Ranked
Set Sampling (RSS) is one such approach. Uribeetxebarria et al. [26] employed this method
with the input of fruit counts of 104 trees using RGB imagery from a UAV, with RS
sampling of homogeneous subpopulations derived according to a ranking of the trees using
ancillary measurements that correlated with fruit loading, i.e., the tree canopy projected
area derived from the images. The estimated average fruit load was 145 fruit/tree with
SD of 50 fruit/tree (CV = 36%) based on counts of 104 trees. Treating these 104 trees as the
entire population and their contents as the true total fruit load, the variance of fruit load
estimates was decreased by about half compared to RS. Sampling errors above the 10%
threshold were produced signiﬁcantly fewer times using RSS, regardless of the sample size,
and the sample size could be reduced by 50%, from n = 10 for RS to n = 5 for RSS for the
same error.
2.3.3. Examples
Some commercial sampling practices fail to adequately represent spatial variability
within the orchard and/or risk large measurement errors by counting large numbers of
fruit. For example, a typical practice in Chilean wine grape production is to count bunches
on 10% of vines in the orchard, within 30 m long row segments in systematically chosen
rows. In Chilean cherry production, a common practice is to count all fruit on each of
100 trees that appear ‘average’ for the orchard. In Australian mango production, the current
best commercial practice for orchard fruit load estimation involves the visual count of fruit
per tree of 5% of trees of the orchard (typically with about 1000 trees on 2 ha) [16], through
a fruit count of trees on transects through the orchard. In a Brazilian mango production
example, 5% of trees in the block are counted along a transect line, with the count increased
if SD is >10% of the mean.
In critique of the above practices, note that decisions on sample supplementation
should not be made based solely on the observed SD (or CVobs = SD/mean). The ob-
served variability of a sample is lower bound by the true or biological variability of the
population Equation (5), which means that it cannot by itself indicate the accuracy of an
estimate. A decision to supplement a sample can be made using the sample size calculation
(Equations (3) and (4)) for random samples and the SE of the estimator. As an example,
consider site 1 from Table 3, with an RS (without replacement) estimator. An estimator of
the variance of the sample mean is given by substituting SDobs for σ in Equation (1). As a
starting point, a single realization of n = 13 trees was taken. The resulting sample provided
an estimate of the mean as 69.5 fruits per tree (i.e., an error of −36.7%), a sample SD of 90.5
fruits, and an estimated sampling variance Equation (1) of 612 (for an estimated coefﬁcient
of error, CE = 35.6%). Substituting these values in Equation (5) and then rearranging to
solve for SDbio, the biological variability was estimated to be:
SDbio ≈
p
90.52 −890 = 87.1

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
11 of 37
compared to the true value of 82 fruit/tree. Supplementing this ﬁrst sample with an
additional random sample of 13 trees for a sample size of 26 trees provided an estimated
mean per tree of 110.3 (i.e., an error of only −4.6%) and an SDobs of 104.8. The estimated
CE was 18.1%, which compares well with the true CE of 16.5%, reported in the previous
subsection) but the estimated SDbio was 102.8 (an overestimate by 25%). The more precise
estimator based on 26 trees provided an even higher SD than the smaller 13 tree sample!
Increasing the sample size will reduce the sampling error (a property of an unbiased
estimator), but in this case, the observed SD will always be large because the biological SD
is high.
The prediction of sampling variance for systematic sampling is more complicated.
Wolter [17] reviews models and methods. Maletti and Wulfsohn [27] evaluated several
models for use under multistage systematic sampling of trees and concluded that a repeated
sampling procedure provided a promising approach.
The use of a transect is driven by the convenience of locating units in walking through
the orchard. Counts of trees in transects represent a form of systematic sampling and
so could be more efﬁcient than RS, if the variability of tree fruit load in the orchard was
captured. For example, a transect can be oriented with respect to an observable trend
for tree loading across the orchard, with a random starting position. However, a single
transect line is unlikely to capture all variation patterns within an orchard, and so is not
recommended.
Guidelines for the manual count-based estimation of fruit crop load are available for
some crops, notably for citrus, grape and nut crops. For example, the use of a frame for
citrus yield estimation was ﬁrst documented by Stout [28]. This method involves six steps:
(i) an estimation of the bearing surface of trees, (ii) the selection of sample trees, (iii) a
count of fruit in a frame of known dimensions (e.g., 1 m3) placed into the canopy of each
sample tree, (iv) the measurement of fruit size and (v) the measurement of fruit retention
rate. Falivene and Hardy [29] recommended a count of 20 frames per hectare, noting that
for more accurate and better representation, more units could be sampled. Lacey [30]
recommends counts of fruit in a frame of 60 trees per citrus block, with sampling of at least
two sides of the tree. The estimated time for this procedure was 60 min per block.
A technique for forecast of grape yields was documented by Martin et al. [31]. The
method involves: (i) the deﬁnition of patches, (ii) the counting of bunches within the patch,
(iii) the counting of berries in sampled bunches, and (iv) the weighing of sampled bunches.
Patches are groups of vines similar in cultivar, spacing and vine structure, which are
essentially an orchard in the context of this manuscript. Bunch counting may be performed
on a trellis segment basis, or by use of a counting frame. Berry counting can begin after the
fruit set. An initial assessment of 60 bunches per patch is recommended, with assessment
of more bunches to meet speciﬁc accuracy requirements. An RS strategy of selecting plants
before entering the orchard is recommended, with a stratiﬁed RS (strata based on equal
number of plants) for irregular-shaped blocks to prevent clumping of samples. Bunches
can be sampled after veraison for the assessment of weight, with a projected growth curve
and an estimation of time to maturation used to estimate ﬁnal yield.
The US Department of Agriculture (USDA) undertakes manual fruit load estimates
for an industry-wide harvest forecast in several crops. Almond forecasts based on crop
sampling two months before harvest have had an average error rate since 2001 of 7.3%,
with the worst annual error being 13.8%, while the average error rate over 34 years of the
hazelnut crop forecasts was reported to be 8.1% [32]. The hazelnut forecast, for example, is
based on a survey of 180 randomly selected orchards, with two randomly selected trees per
orchard. Each year, 50% of trees are retained from the previous year. Two primary scaffold
branches per tree are marked for sampling before nut set. Four months later, all nuts from
the sample scaffold branches are picked from the tree and sorted into eight size groups,
and for defects. The total industry yield is estimated as a product of the nuts picked per
tree, average nut size, the dry weight per ‘good’ nut and the number of trees in production.

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
12 of 37
Examples of commercial yield estimations using the SUR sampling method have been
provided by Martinez Vega et al. [33] and Wulfsohn and Lagos [34]. Surveys were carried
out by two-person teams, with one person counting fruit on small portions of the trees and
taking subsamples of fruit for the measurement of mass and other properties, the other
person guiding the sampling and recording counts and masses using the app [25]. Any
plants or branches selected by the algorithm that did not bear fruit were ignored (the next
fruit bearing unit selected instead) to increase efﬁciency. For sweet cherry orchards with
areas of 2 ha, less than 3 h were required to obtain projections to the date of harvest with
absolute errors of 0.5–10%. Six hours were required for a 6.7 ha orchard, and the resulting
estimation error compared to packhouse records was only 2%. A 50 ha vineyard was
sampled over two seasons. In the ﬁrst season, the survey of bunch counts and a subsample
for bunch weights took 9 h to complete, for an overall estimation error of 0.4% relative to
the harvested weight. The following season, a smaller sample, requiring 6 h, provided an
estimation of yield with a −3.3% error. In comparison, the winery’s estimation of bunch
counts for the same blocks required three days of effort by a ﬁve-person crew, equivalent
to 16 days by a two-person team. Similarly, Martinez Vega et al. [33] reported sampling
of a 17 ha apple orchard using an SUR approach in 5 h. A marketable yield estimate of
356.6 ± 89.2 t compared well to the 374.9 t packed for export.
2.4. Machine Vision Methods
2.4.1. Image Processing
The estimation of fruit yield for an orchard using a machine vision system has three
components: (i) the detection and count of fruit in images; (ii) relating image fruit count
to fruit load of an entire tree and (iii) the estimation of all trees, or a statistically relevant
sample of trees in the orchard. Most reports to date report on the ﬁrst stage, detection and
count in images, rather than report on accuracy at a whole tree or orchard level.
Great advances have been made in the detection algorithms, in terms of improved
speed, reduced computing requirements, with detection accuracies consistently over
95% [35]. The methodology of deep learning for on-tree fruit detection was reviewed
in 2019 [35] and is therefore not considered in depth in this review, but rather, attention is
given to the implementation of the technology in the orchard. In brief, initial attempts at
fruit detection in tree canopy images used image segmentation techniques based on color,
texture, shape and other fruit ‘features’ [36]. Within the last decade, the advent of ‘deep
learning’ using Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) has revolutionized machine vision
applications in general. For tree crops, the technology has been applied to the estimation of
ﬂower and fruit load [3,37–41] with accuracies well over 90% reported for the detection of
ﬂowers or fruit visible in images of tree canopies.
The deep learning architectures employed in fruit detection have evolved within the
past ﬁve years, e.g., from Faster Regional Convolutional Neural Networks (FRCNNs) to
lighter architectures such as You Look Only Once (YOLO). Current novelty lies in bench-
marking new architectures against the current ‘state of the art’ in terms of performance
in object detection and in speed and computing resources required. In general, deeper
architectures require more training and greater computing power for implementation but
provide improved accuracy compared to shallower architectures. However, given fruit
detection is a relatively simple single class task and as the fruit load estimation task for
large orchards requires the processing of large data volumes, the trend points towards the
use of lighter weight architectures.
However, not all fruit can be seen from outside the canopy, leading to ‘occlusion
error’ on machine vision estimates. This error forms the main limitation to the adoption
of machine vision technology for crop load estimation. Effort in machine vision research
should be directed to techniques for whole tree load estimation rather than into model
architecture redesign for small gains in object detection performance. Likely topics include
camera orientations and the use of features related to the proportion of occluded fruit. The
documentation of variability in occlusion error between seasons for a given orchard and to

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
13 of 37
canopy architectures that reduce occlusion error is also required. Such canopy architectures
will also suit robotic harvesting.
2.4.2. Hardware and Imaging Platform
One implementation of machine vision is within a handheld camera system, with the
assessment of a sample of trees in the orchard. These systems can use edge processing to
process images locally, using a shallow architecture, or rely on cellular network coverage or
Wi-Fi to transfer images for cloud processing where a deeper architecture can be employed.
Edge processing is attractive to give immediate results to the user, and to avoid the poor
connectivity issues experienced on many orchards. Fu et al. [42] described an Android
phone-based system for counting kiwifruit on vine, although the detection rate was only
76% of the human count across 100 images. Faye et al. [43] describe a mobile phone-based
system to count fruit in images of mango trees, coupled with the use of an occlusion factor
to estimate tree yield. Single point of view images of tree fruit canopies will, however,
have a high occlusion factor on the actual tree fruit load. There is the potential for the use
of video of a ‘walk around’ the tree, with post-processing for the counting of fruit in a
generated 3D image. Camera chest harness supports can be used to aid such a task.
Camera systems have been also mounted onto farm vehicles and used in the imaging
of entire orchards. The basic hardware required of such a system is an RGB camera of
adequate resolution to allow for the detection of fruit and a recording system able to tolerate
the rigors of ﬁeld use. Consideration must be given to camera pixel resolution, camera
ﬁeld of view, which requires consideration of lens focal length, camera to canopy distance
and canopy height. For example, when using a 5 MP camera with 2.2 by 2.2 um pixels at a
canopy distance of 2 m equipped with a lens with 6 mm focal length to achieve a ﬁeld of
view for imaging a 4 m high canopy, a 100 mm diameter fruit will be represented by an
image 12 pixels in width. A side facing camera mounted to a vehicle is appropriate for most
tree fruit crops, but some crops may require a different camera orientation. For example, for
the vine crop of kiwifruit, cameras can be mounted to look upwards to hanging fruit [44].
Multiple cameras may be also employed, for the purpose of either achieving views of both
rows when driving through an inter-row, or for stacking vertically to achieve coverage of a
high canopy. The use of cameras facing in opposite directions to image both rows from
one inter-row position requires a row spacing and tree height matched to the camera ﬁeld
of view. A GNSS device is typically employed to allow the geolocation of every acquired
frame. LiDAR has also been employed in addition to RGB imaging [37,38], allowing the
development of a canopy mask for associating detected fruits to individual canopies. To
reduce effort, there is potential to mount the imaging systems onto farm vehicles moving
through the orchard for other purposes, e.g., onto a tractor undertaking spraying, given
the camera enclosures are placed at a distance from the spray zone (Figure 4).

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
14 of 37
 
Figure 4. Example of a machine vision system employing LED lighting, GNSS for geolocation and
cameras facing in two directions, mounted to a tractor–spray rig.
Some researchers have trialed the use of aerial platforms, particularly UAVs, for
carriage of the imaging systems. Given weight and power constraints, imaging from such
platforms cannot utilize artiﬁcial lighting. Another issue for use of a UAV is the visibility
of ﬂowers or fruit in-tree when viewed from above, as opposed to a side of tree view. A
3D object-based method using multi view perspectives from drone imagery outperformed
a 2D top-view (R2 > 0.7 compared to 0.53, against ﬁeld-based counts) for the estimation
of pear ﬂower cluster number per tree [45]. Apolo-Apolo et al. [46] report that a 3D
reconstructed image from an aerial view accounted for only 27% of fruit on the 19 apple
trees assessed, with an R2 of 0.80, MAE of 129 and RMSE of 131 fruit per tree achieved for
a linear regression of machine vision estimated fruit counts against hand harvest counts.
Trees had an average of 255 fruit/tree. This accuracy was acknowledged as inadequate for
the task of yield prediction.
UAVs can also be ﬂown between rows to achieve side views of tree canopies, as
demonstrated in the detection of apple and citrus fruits [47]. However, further publications
from the same group have utilized ground vehicles for image collection [48,49]. One issue
in the use of UAVs between rows is the unreliability of the GNSS signal, thus requiring the
use of multiple cameras for navigation by vision.
2.4.3. Implementation on Ground Vehicles
Initially, machine vision technology on ground vehicles was used in orchard fruit load
estimation using a so-called ‘Dual View’ (DV) method, in which two images are collected
per tree, one from each interrow. This approach has been superseded by the use of multiple
frames of each side of each tree, obtained while driving through the orchard (‘Multi View’,
(MV)), e.g., Stein et al. [37] and Wang et al. [50]. In this method, fruits are detected in
each frame and the expected position of each fruit in subsequent frames is estimated. If

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
15 of 37
a fruit appears in the expected position, it is assumed to be the same fruit. If a fruit does
not appear in the expected position after a set number of subsequent frames, the fruit
is assumed to have passed from view, and the total fruit count is incremented by one.
Stein et al. [37] reported that the DV system achieved a higher repeatability (precision) but
a lower accuracy (i.e., greater difference to reference count) than the MV system.
Both DV and MV methods can suffer double counts of fruit, if seen from the two sides
of the tree. This error can be reduced by imposing a size limit on detected fruit, as more
distant fruit appear smaller, or by imposing a camera to fruit distance limit if the imaging
system provides for distance measurement.
Alternatively, fruit can be located in 3D space. For example, the localization of
apples in 3D space was achieved using cameras positioned on an over-the-row gantry
for viewing of both sides of the tree canopy simultaneously; however, a 21% error in
identifying duplicate apples was reported due to a position error [51]. Within a system
employing GNSS and an Inertial Navigation System, epipolar projection using the multiple
RGB images collected for each tree in driving the inter-row was used to assign a 3D
position, within 20 cm, to every fruit in a mango orchard [37]. Fruit in the same 3D
position as estimated from images from the two inter-rows were assumed to be the same
fruit. The same suite of technologies was compared to the use of a Semantic Structure
From Motion (SSFM) algorithm for the estimation of the 3D position of fruit based on
tracking between images acquired using a single camera [49]. The lower cost SSFM system
achieved an R2 = 0.78, RMSEP = 27.8 fruit/tree, and slope = 0.87 for fruit counts, relative to
manual counts of 18 trees, while the multi-sensor imaging system achieved an R2 = 0.88,
RMSEP = 19.8 and slope = 0.97.
Both DV and MV methods can fail to detect fruit occluded by other fruit or foliage,
although this error is greatly decreased when using the MV method. In the MV example
illustrated in Figure 5, estimates suffer a bias that represents 26.8% of the error, with
the remaining 73.1% associated with random noise (precision) on an orchard of smaller,
open trees, and a bias that represents 36.8% of the total uncertainty for an orchard with
denser canopies. MV estimates can be corrected using an ‘occlusion factor’ estimated
from the regression of a manual estimate of total fruit load to the machine vision estimate
of a set of ‘calibration’ trees in a given orchard. For example, Nuske et al. [52] used a
‘visibility function’ to relate the visible estimate of fruit to the total fruit of grapevines. The
relationship was site-speciﬁc, but consistent over seasons for a particular vineyard. Most
wine grape and table grape producers manage vines and grape loading (using pruning
and thinning) consistently from season to season, which would explain this ﬁnding.
However, the estimation of an occlusion factor requires the tedious, manual counting
of fruit on trees. There have therefore been attempts to develop a machine vision-based
estimation of proportion of occluded fruit, e.g., through correlation to foliage density or
the proportion of partly occluded fruit. An early attempt is demonstrated in the work
of Cheng et al. [53] who used a back propagation neural network model to associate the
actual tree fruit load to canopy characters derived from segmentation techniques. For the
prediction of fruit load in a different season to that used for model training, the RMSE and
R2 between estimated and harvested apple yield were 2.6 kg/tree and 0.62 for early fruit
growth (small, green fruit) and 2.5 kg/tree and 0.75 near harvest (red, large fruit), for trees
with an average 18 kg of fruit. In a later attempt in the direct prediction of total tree fruit
load, deep learning techniques were employed [12], and good predictions of current season
tree fruit loads were achieved, but predictions of fruit load per tree for a subsequent season
were poor. Further work should be undertaken to progress this concept.

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
16 of 37
Figure 5. Manual tree fruit counts plotted against multi view machine vision estimates of mango
tree fruit load for an orchard of smaller, open canopy trees (top panel) and larger, dense canopy trees
(bottom panel). Units for RMSE and bias are counts of fruit per tree.
Another issue in orchard imaging is lighting. Daytime orchard imaging can be com-
promised by sun glare in image and strong shadowing of fruit (Figure 6). Stein et al. [37]
and Underwood et al. [38] addressed this issue by use of an intense strobe light system and
a very short camera exposure time, such that the effect of sunlight was greatly diminished.
Gongal et al. [54] placed cameras under an over-the-row cover to eliminate direct sunlight.
Other researchers [3,40,41,50,55–57] avoided the daylight issue by imaging at night, using
artiﬁcial lighting.

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
17 of 37
 
Figure 6. Image of the same mango tree canopy at day and at night. Bounding boxes relate to tracking of fruit be-
tween frames.
Reports of the use of ground vehicle-based machine vision for tree or orchard fruit
load estimation are summarized in Table 4 in terms of commodity, algorithm, imaging
method, validation set used and result achieved.
Table 4. Example reported results of machine vision-based estimation of tree fruit load. Papers are ordered chronologically
within commodities. Single view refers to collection of one image per tree and one row side only. Dual view (DV) refers
to collection of one image per tree side from each interrow and multi view (MV) entails collection of several images in
succession per tree side.
Paper
Algorithm/Technique
Imaging Method
Validation Set
Result
Apple
Gongal et al. [54]
Color and shape
thresholding
DV on ground vehicle
with row cover
20 trees
20% error on fruit in
image, 18% error on
fruits per tree
Bargoti and
Underwood [58]
CNN
MV on ground vehicle,
day imaging
15 rows
10.8% error on fruit
counts per tree
Cheng et al. [53]
Color thresholding,
neural network
utilizing ancillary
variables (foliage area,
fruit area)
Single view on ground
vehicle, day imaging
Multi season cross
validations (2009–2011)
180 trees total.
10.7 and 8.9% MAPE
for estimations of fruit
per tree after fruit drop
and during ripening
period, respectively
Linker [57]
Speeded Up Robust
Features
DV (2014) and MV
(2016 set) ground
vehicle, night imaging
10 grabs of 20 random
trees (2014 and 2016
separately)
2014: 4.8% error and
2016: 5.4% error
(fruit/tree)
Kuznetsova et al. [59]
YOLOv3
Single view on
stationary platform
552 images
93% precision; 1% error
on fruit count per
image
Citrus
Gan et al. [60]
FRCNN
Fusion of thermal and
RGB, day imaging
1658 images
95.5% precision on
fruit/image
Apolo-Apolo et al. [46]
FRCNN
DV on UAV
20 trees, 3 seasons
11.5, 4.3 and 5.8% error
against harvested kg
for 2016, 2017, and
2018, respectively

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
18 of 37
Table 4. Cont.
Paper
Algorithm/Technique
Imaging Method
Validation Set
Result
Grape
Nuske et al. [52]
Shape, texture, color,
occlusion correction
MV at 6 fps on ground
vehicle; stereo camera
for position
1212 vines of 5 varieties
on 4 trellis types, for 4
seasons.
4% error in yield
prediction with use of
occlusion correction
Font et al. [55]
Color thresholding
and area or volume
modeling
Single view on ground
vehicle
25 bunches
16–17% error on bunch
weight.
Kiwifruit
Wijethunga et al. [44]
Color thresholding
Single view on ground
vehicle, night imaging
78 gold 42 green images
7.1 and 24.9% error for
gold and green
varieties, respectively,
for fruit in image
counts
Mango
Stein et al. [37]
FRCNN
DV and MV on ground
vehicle, day imaging
16 trees
1.4% error on fruit per
tree (MV)
Qureshi et al. [56]
Texture and shape
segmenting
DV ground vehicle,
multiple light
conditions
Multiple validations
(10–74 trees)
Multiple validations
from 0.5 to 40% error
on fruit per tree
estimate (mean = 18.6
and sd = 15.6%)
Anderson et al. [16]
FRCNN
DV and MV on ground
vehicle, night imaging
1 orchard
9 and 6% error on
packhouse count (DV
and MV, respectively)
Koirala et al. [3]
MangoYOLOv3
DV on ground vehicle;
night imaging
5 orchards
3% error on packhouse
count (5 orchards
combined)
Imaging of every row of an orchard allows for the production of a yield map of
the orchard, which can have farm management uses such as guiding early harvest or
understanding the impact of an environmental variable on yield. However, imaging of
every row represents over sampling for the estimation of orchard yield. Workload can
be reduced by driving every ith row, where i depends on tree load variability across
the orchard.
2.5. Correlative Methods
2.5.1. What Determines Tree Fruit Load?
Correlative methods aim to avoid the direct count of fruit through use of a relationship
between a relatively easily measured attribute and fruit load. To inform the choice of
attribute, the determinants of tree fruit yield are brieﬂy reviewed. For some crops, there is
a direct allometric relationship between the harvested component and the biomass of the
whole crop, such that crop yield can be estimated by ‘indirect’ measurements of more easily
assessed attributes. For example, sugarcane crop height and density are correlated to cane
yield [61]. For tree fruit, a given tree will have a genetically and physiologically determined
maximum fruit biomass that it will tend towards. For example, Mizani et al. [62] reported
that the removal of a proportion of mango panicles at the anthesis stage resulted in the set
of more fruit on the remaining panicles, such that the yield was unaffected.
The ﬁnal tree fruit load, however, reﬂects a series of events that include ﬂowering,
pollination, fruit set, fruit retention and fruit growth (sizing). Each step is affected by an
interplay of endogenous and exogenous factors, with limitations not always compensated,
as in the example of Mizani et al. [62]. Further, as a perennial crop, management and
environmental conditions of previous seasons can impact the yield of the current season,

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
19 of 37
and some genotypes have a strong two-year cycle in yield. The yield potential of a given
tree is therefore often not reached, with the extent of inﬂuencing effects varying between
seasons, between orchards, between trees in an orchard and even between branches on a
tree. Management actions operations that do not impact tree size or shape can also alter
the yield, such as the chemical thinning of fruit or timing and extent of irrigation. Thus, the
relationship between fruit load and other characters of the tree can vary – in brief, bigger
trees do not necessarily have more or larger fruit. The difference between the crop potential
and the actual load in a given year has been termed a ‘yield gap’.
A number of studies have attempted to relate fruit load to the number of ﬂowers or
blooming intensity, e.g., Braun et al. [63], Bulanon et al. [64], but such relationships are
dependent on a range of conditions. In the case of mango, each stem terminal has the
potential to convert from the vegetative to reproductive mode, producing a panicle. Thus,
the reproductive potential of a tree is set by the number of branch terminals on the tree
that are of reproductive age. However, the conversion to the reproductive mode requires a
period of ‘cold’ weather, i.e., temperatures under 18◦C, or applications of chemicals such
as KNO3 and paclobutrazol [65,66]. the timing of pruning is also important, as juvenile
stems (<4 weeks of age) are not able to convert to the reproductive mode. Further, only
a proportion of the panicles that form on a mango tree set fruit, and of those, only a
proportion will hold fruit through to harvest, with these proportions varying between trees
and seasons as pollination and growth conditions vary. If these factors are not optimal, a
yield gap will exist between the actual and potential yield.
2.5.2. Prediction of Yield in Cropping
A number of empirical yield models have been developed based on within-season
remote sensing-derived vegetation indices (VIs), particularly for broadacre annual crops.
These models anticipate a relationship between yield and canopy characteristics, such as
leaf area index (LAI), biomass, and chlorophyll content, which are indexed by VIs. Com-
monly used VIs which have been related to canopy structure include the Normalized Dif-
ferential Vegetation Index (NDVI), a simple ratio, the Enhanced Vegetation Index (EVI) and
the Optimized Soil-Adjusted Vegetation Index (OSAVI). These VIs are calculated from re-
ﬂectance in the red (R) and near-infrared (NIR) bands, e.g., NDVI = (R −NIR)/(R + NDVI).
Other VIs have been used to index chlorophyll content, such as the red edge chlorophyll
index [67].
The results for the use of spectra reﬂectance information to estimate annual crop yield
provide an incentive to assess the technique with tree fruit crops, given the scalability of the
technique. Examples of results with annual crops follow: cotton yield was estimated using
the canopy reﬂective indices of NDVI and EVI at ﬂowering [68]. Wheat yield was predicted
(R2 = 0.91 and RMSE = 0.54 t/ha) of a set of ﬁelds independent to that used in training
using OSAVI, CI and ‘stress index’ from Sentinel 2 imagery by Zhao et al. [67]. Soybean
and corn yield was predicted (R2 = 0.92 and 0.88, respectively) using neural network and
Multiple Linear Regression (MLR) models with a combination of Landsat and SPOT image
data from early to mid-season crop growth stages [69].
Other work has related crop yield to environmental and management parameters. A
recent review reported 567 relevant studies on the use of machine learning for crop yield
prediction, with reports on annual crops predominating [1]. The features most commonly
used as inputs for a yield model were temperature, solar radiation, humidity, rainfall,
nutrient level and soil type, and the most commonly used modeling method was an
Artiﬁcial Neural Network (ANN). Of studies employing deep learning, the CNN was the
most used algorithm. For example, with inputs of soil type, varieties, planting spacing,
cane ﬁeld age, average number of cuts, rainfall and temperature and yield of sugarcane
was predicted using several data mining techniques (random forest, boosting and support
vector machines) based on [70], with the best model returning a prediction RMSE that was
20.0 t ha−1, for yields around 70 t ha−1, i.e., 29% RRMSE.

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
20 of 37
A recent focus is the combination of climate and satellite data to predict crop yield.
For example, the prediction using a neural network model of wheat yield across Australia
over 14 years was improved by the combination of climate data and the EVI from MODIS
(R2 ~ 0.75) for prediction two months before crop maturity [71]. It was suggested that time
series satellite data allows for the tracking of crop growth, capturing the variability of yield
through the growing season, with the contribution to yield prediction saturating at the time
of maximum vegetative growth. In contrast, climate data provided added value across the
whole season.
2.5.3. Prediction Based on Correlation to within-Season Attributes
Attempts have been made to correlate tree fruit load to within-season estimates of tree
structural parameters, such as crown area or volume, and/or reﬂectance indices related
to canopy chlorophyll or health. These parameters can be assessed manually or by using
tools such as LiDAR on ground or aerial platforms, or imagers on ground, aerial or satellite
platforms. Satellite-derived data are desirable for its potential to provide yield predictions
at a regional scale.
2.5.4. Correlation to Canopy Structural Attributes
The data of Anderson et al. [16] and Stein et al. [37] on mango fruit load and canopy
volume per tree (re-plotted as Figure 7) provides a useful example of the limitations of
correlation to canopy volume. There appears to be a maximum number of fruits per unit
volume of tree canopy, at around 18 fruits per m3, but many trees fail to achieve this
maximum, i.e., a yield gap is demonstrated (Figure 7). Thus, while the potential for mango
fruit number is set by the number of vegetative terminals, the correlation between fruit
load and tree structure parameters can be poor, e.g., Anderson et al. [16] reported an R2 of
0.21 and 0.17 for the correlation of fruit load to canopy volume measured using LiDAR
and trunk circumference, respectively. For trees with a greater range in canopy volume,
Sarron et al. [9] reported an R2 of 0.63 to 0.76 (p-values < 0.05) between mango fruit load
and canopy volume, as measured using a UAV photogrammetry method.
Figure 7. Relationship between tree fruit load and tree canopy volume as assessed using LiDAR for
494 trees of a single mango orchard. Line with slope of 18 fruit/m3 bounds 99% of observations.
An MLR model was used for the prediction of mango orchard yield, utilizing six
tree attributes (height, canopy size, stock girth, scion girth, and shoot length) and four
meteorological parameters (maximum temperature, minimum temperature, rainfall, and
sunshine hours) at ﬁve different development stages (ﬂushing, bud differentiation, ﬂow-

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
21 of 37
ering, fruit set and fruit development stage) of 20 treatments at 10 sites across 9 seasons
(n = 1800) [72]. The calibration R2 for the fruit load prediction was 0.53, which the author
noted was unsatisfactory. The identiﬁed constraints included the smallholder practice of
interplanting tree crops and varieties and mixtures of tree ages in a given orchard and the
reliability of yield data from growers.
Similarly, while a relatively good correlation (R2 = 0.80) was demonstrated for cit-
rus canopy size and yield in a single season [73], another study demonstrated that the
relationship was not consistent between seasons, orchards, time of imagery acquisition
(twice per season) and the combined features of canopy area (pixel based) and spectral
band, for a canopy area estimated from 0.2 m spatial resolution satellite imagery [74].
Sarron et al. [9] devised a methodology for yield modeling based on mango tree structural
parameters and a fruit ‘load index’. Mango tree structure parameters of height, crown area
and volume were assessed by images collected by a UAV. These parameters were used
together with cultivar information and a human-assessed ‘fruit load index’ per orchard
as inputs to a second-degree polynomial predictive model. The fruit load index involved
a visual assessment of the orchard to one of four classes (null, low, medium, high) based
on the area of visible fruits to the overall crown area. This assessment was made of 50
trees located on a transect through the orchard, although this was recognized as a potential
source of sampling error. Cultivar-speciﬁc models were developed, with an R2 of 0.77 to
0.87 and RRMSE from 20–29% reported on validation sets. The load index was weighted
higher than tree structure variables in all models.
2.5.5. Correlation to Spectral Indices
Another focus is the use of within-season vegetation indices extracted from remote
imaging. There are many indices that can be trialed, utilizing visible, far red, or thermal
bands. For example, a 2007 study reported on the relationship between canopy temperature
estimated from airborne imagery (2 m resolution) minus air temperature and stem water
potential, and a correlation of olive yield (kg/tree) to canopy temperature (R2 = 0.84
and 0.77 for images captured at 09:30 and 11:30 h in 2004) [75]. Olive and peach fruit
weight (g) were also correlated to canopy temperature (R2 = 0.91 and 0.92 in 2004 and 2005,
respectively, for olive, and R2 = 0.82 and 0.81 in 2004 and 2005 seasons, respectively).
Maselli et al. [76] reported the development of a mechanistic orientated model of
regional olive yield using data for ten seasons (2000–2009) across 10 regions of Tuscany.
The NDVI from the MODIS satellite and meteorological data were used as inputs to a
parametric model (C-Fix) for the prediction of daily tree Gross Primary Production (GPP).
The GPP estimates were joined to respiration estimates from a bio-geochemical model
based on climatic variables and descriptors of local conditions to estimate Net Primary
Production (NPP). The NPP accumulated over the fruiting periods of each season was
then related to fruit yield, with comparison to provincial statistics. The methodology
was reported to partly capture yield variability at a province level, but more accurately
forecast inter-year yield variation over the entire region. The C-Fix model achieved an
R2cv = 0.83 and an RMSEcv = 299 kg/ha for the ten regions across the ten seasons, while
the C-Fix + respiration model achieved an R2cv = 0.89 and an RMSEcv = 224 kg/ha (cross
validation based on use of yearly datasets), on an average yield of 1600 kg/ha, and thus an
MAE of 14%.
High-resolution satellite imagery (WorldView (WV)-2 and WV-3; ~46 and 30 cm
panchromatic resolution, respectively, used in segmentation of canopies, and 1.24 and
1.8 m multispectral resolution, respectively, used in reﬂectance index calculation) was
utilized for the prediction of avocado and mango yield [77,78]. For each orchard block to
be assessed, an NDVI classiﬁcation of trees was undertaken, with six trees selected from
each of low, medium and high NDVI classiﬁcations. Manual measurements of fruit count
and/or weight for these trees (n = 18) were used in correlation to 18 different VIs. The
best model was then used for the prediction of yield (kg/tree) of the whole block. In the
avocado study, the best calibration correlations across ﬁve blocks and three seasons were

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
22 of 37
obtained with the index RENDVI1, calculated as (NIR1-RE)/(NIR1+RE), where NIR1 is
the 774–874 nm band and RE is the red edge band 698–749 nm (R2 = 0.45, 0.28 and 0.29;
n = 90 trees). Better results were obtained by using models developed for individual blocks,
using the VI with the highest correlation to yield in each case (R2 = 0.21 to 0.89). Yield
predictions of orchard blocks using the correlations developed on 18 trees were within
0.1 to 3.4 t ha−1 of actual harvest (packhouse data), with average totals around 8 t/ha. In
the mango study, Rahman et al. [78] utilized ANN models based on WV-3 image-derived
tree crown area and all spectral bands. For a model across all orchards and seasons, the
highest correlation (R2 = 0.30) to fruit count was achieved with the NDVI red-edge band.
As for the avocado work, superior results were obtained with use of local (orchard) models
compared to use of a generic model. For individual orchard models, the best result of 18
VIs gave R2 of between 0.56 to 0.63. Yield estimations within 1 to 7% of harvested yield for
each orchard were reported.
Bai et al. [79] examined the correlation of NDVI calculated from Landsat 8 satellite
imagery obtained at multiple times of the year to the yield of 181 jujube orchards across
two seasons (2016–2017). A maximum calibration R2 = 0.84 (average of 2016 and 2017) was
obtained using data from within the period mid to late July. However, in validation (using
2016 to predict 2017 and vice versa) the best result was obtained by combining the captures
from late July and early August (R2 = 0.35 and 0.43, PE = 14.8 and 13.3% for 2016 and 2017
seasons, respectively). The modiﬁed WOrld FOod STudies (WOFOST) model, which used
the satellite-estimated leaf area index from the maximum vegetative period (per year) as
an additional input, achieved an improved validation result (R2 = 0.62 and 0.59, PE = 10.9
and 11.1% for 2016 and 2017, respectively).
Chang et al. [80] utilized measurements of canopy cover, canopy volume, and veg-
etation indices obtained from weekly RGB and bi-weekly multispectral UAS imagery in
the prediction of tomato yield. Crop growth and growth rate curves were ﬁtted to time
series data, and a ﬁrst derivative used to estimate maximum growth rate, day at a speciﬁc
event, and duration of growth periods. Yield prediction models explained 65 percent of the
variance in actual harvest yields, with information on phenotypic features derived from
RGB images carrying more weight in the model than the multispectral data (NDVI and
Excess Green (ExG), where ExG = 2g-r-b, where r, g and b are red, green and blue channels
normalized to the sum of these three variables).
In summary, the correlations of within-season attributes to yield is higher for annual
than perennial fruit crops. The use of individual orchard, season-speciﬁc models has
been recommended.
2.5.6. Prediction Based on Multiple Season Attributes
A time series across seasons of yield data from one orchard may display autocorrela-
tion, reﬂecting the size and health of trees. Such a time series can therefore be useful in the
prediction of future yield, adjusted for current conditions. The fruit yield of an orchard
can be expected to trend upwards in the establishment years of an orchard, and down-
ward during the decline of an over-mature orchard, and in relation to seasonal limitations
ranging from pollination to water stress.
Tree fruit yield also sometimes demonstrates a marked ﬂuctuation between seasons.
A biennial bearing pattern can be described by a bearing pattern index [81], deﬁned as:
I =
n
∑
i=2
|Yi −Yi−1|/(Yi + Yi−1)
(n −1)
(6)
where Yi is the ith observed yield over n years, and |Yi −Yi−1| is the absolute difference
in yield between successive years. The index, I, can vary between 0 and 1, where 0 is
associated with equal yield in alternate years and 1, zero yield in alternate years.
For example, the fruit yield of 18 mango trees reveals a level of bi-annual variation in
fruit load at an individual tree level, with enough synchronicity between trees such that

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
23 of 37
the 18-tree average demonstrates a biennial cycle, mirroring variation in the packhouse
count for the orchard (Figure 8).
Figure 8. Fruit load per tree of 18 mango trees from one orchard, over 6 years. Top panel: trees
demonstrating synchronicity in biennial bearing, with ‘on’ years in odd years; middle panel: trees
demonstrating biennial bearing with ‘on’ years in even years or a non-biennial bearing pattern;
bottom panel: average fruit load of 18 trees and the packhouse count for the orchard (494 trees).
Maselli et al. [76] note that climatic events (such as extreme temperatures or drought)
can act to synchronize the beginning of a period biennial bearing, markedly so at a local
level but increasingly less so moving from local to regional scales if the climactic event
is patchy. Thus, the relevance of alternate year bearing is lessened at wider scales. An
example was described for table grapes in which the initiation of a 7-year period of
synchronous biennial bearing of vines was ascribed to an abnormally hot period during
bud formation that resulted in a low fruit yield in all vines in the following year, with an
increase in carbohydrate availability during the ‘off’ year proposed to have supported a
strong ﬂowering in the next year, which in turn resulted in depleted reserves and a weak
ﬂowering in the following year [82]. It was postulated that over time, the physiology of the
vines varied, such that synchronicity was dampened or lost.

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
24 of 37
An empirical model can be ﬁt to existing time series data and used in extrapolation
to forward predict the yield of the next season. For example, Sakai et al. [83] presented
a method based on nonlinear time series analysis for a forward prediction of yield of
citrus in the next year from relatively short duration time series sets based on evidence of
description of deterministic chaos behind the alternate bearing pattern. Using an ensemble
dataset of fruit counts on 48 citrus trees followed for 6 years, they were able to forward
predict the ﬁnal three seasons’ yield for each tree based on previous years’ counts for the
ensemble with acceptable accuracy, while correctly predicting the biennial bearing pattern
of the orchard.
2.5.7. Prediction Based on Yield Across Multiple Seasons, Climatic Variables and
Canopy Characteristics
The production of tree fruit crops generally increases over a half decade or more as
trees mature and canopy size increases, allowing yield to be predicted based on tree age
and tree spacing. For example, almond yield increased each season for the ﬁrst seven
years post planting, then stabilized, albeit with year-to-year ﬂuctuations [84]. Higher
mean maximum temperatures during April–June were associated with increased yield in
southern California orchards, while a larger amount of precipitation in March reduced the
yield, especially in northern orchards. Annual maximum vegetation indices were dominant
variables in the prediction of yield potential.
Light (photosynthetically active radiation, PAR) interception is a key component
affecting both the quality and quantity of yield [85]. Jin et al. [86] noted that at any given
level of light interception of an almond orchard, yield can fall markedly below full yield
potential because of factors such as tree age, tree density, location, winter temperature and
summer mean daily maximum Vapor Pressure Deﬁcit (VPDmax). Warmer winter conditions
and summer VPDmax beyond 40 hPa resulted in decreased yield. A random forest model
based on these inputs explained 82% of yield variation in a sixfold cross validation, with
an RMSE of 88.3 kg/ha, for average orchard yields around 3000 kg/ha. When light
interception was not used as an input, the model still explained 78% of yield variation.
In another example, the national coconut production of Sri Lanka was forecast through
prediction in seven production regions based on climate variables [87]. The absolute error
on production estimates for 2003 and 2004 was 6.5 and 7.0%, respectively.
Mayer et al. [88] reported the prediction of macadamia yield using a large number
(90+) of climate measures for times of the year related to key physiological events for
macadamia trees, with a target of ±10% of actual. Of general linear models, partial
least squares regression and Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO)
penalized regression models, and ensembles of these models; LASSO models performed
best. The lowest MAE rates were 9.0% and 5.9% for two Australian production regions,
respectively. Region 1 was noted to predominantly rely on rainfall, while region 2 farms
were mostly irrigated. The six key variables for region 1 were price (lagged-two-years),
rainfall (Jan in previous year), rainfall (Apr/May), rain—days (Sep/Oct), solar radiation
(Dec) and soil water index (summer). For region 2, the key variables were price, annual
soil water index, winter solar radiation, day—degrees from optimal through Sep/Oct,
minimum temperature (Nov) and maximum temperature (Dec). It was rationalized that
price (lagged-two-years) was a useful variable as orchard management inputs decrease
during periods of low prices, resulting in a later season yield decrease.
Brinkhoff and Robson [89] also reported on the use of climate data and remote sensing
vegetative indices in the prediction of macadamia yields. Imagery in the second, third
and fourth quarters of the year was associated with ﬂower initiation, spring ﬂush and nut
growth, respectively. The variable with the highest correlation was the green normalized
difference vegetation index (NIR/Green) collected in the ﬂower initiation period. A ridge
regularized regression was recommended over the machine learning algorithms of LASSO,
support vector regression and random forest. Most information came from the remote
sensing variables (79%), with little improvement in model performance noted from the
addition of meteorological variables (1%). At the orchard level, the RMSE of the 2019

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
25 of 37
forecast was 0.8 t/ha, with a mean absolute percentage error of 20.9%. At the region
level, aggregating block level predictions, prediction errors were between 0–15% across the
2016–2019 seasons.
The potential for yield estimation without input of ground-collected inputs is encour-
aging, providing for scalability in widespread implementation. However, such models are
indirect estimates of yield, and will fail if seasons’ conditions exceed that encompassed by
the training set.
3. Measurement of Fruit Size
3.1. Current (Manual) Methods
The size of fruit on-tree can be assessed non-invasively using calipers for lineal
dimensions or sizing rings for circumference measurements. Allometric relationships can
allow the estimation of fruit weight from such measurements (Table 5). However, such
measurements are typically made some weeks before harvest and as fruit growth continues
until harvest it is necessary to establish a growth model for the prediction of harvest size
or weight (Table 5). In commercial use, the estimated fruit weight distribution is typically
converted to a commercial box weight distribution, given a relationship between a range
of fruit mass and a given box size.
Table 5. Examples of allometric relations between fruit lineal dimensions and weight, and growth models for prediction of
size at harvest, for several commodities. Abbreviations are: W, fruit weight (g) at a given time, e.g., W60 DAB; where DAB is
days after full bloom; HW, weight of fruit at harvest (g), L, fruit length (mm), Wi, fruit width (mm), T, fruit thickness (mm).
Publication
Commodity
Allometry between Weight and
Lineal Dimensions
Prediction of Harvest Weight
Marini et al. [90]
Apple (Gala)
Quadratic
W = 17.03 – (1.48 × d) + (0.046 × d2)
R2 = 0.972
Linear
HW = −169.09 + (8.19 × W60 DAB)
R2 = 0.79
Lakso et al. [91]
Apple (Empire)
Linear
1.47 to 1.95 g/day
Ortega-Farias et al. [92]
Apple (Granny Smith)
Logistic growth curve
Verreynne [93]
Citrus (Navel Orange)
Linear
26.4 mm/day
Ellis et al. [94]
Grape
Bayesian predicted double
sigmoid growth curve
Hall et al. [95]
Kiwifruit
Linear
0.42 mL/day from 50 DAB
Spreer and Müller [96]
Mango (Chok Anan)
Linear
W = 0.000539 × L × Wi × T
R2 = 0.97
Wang et al. [97]
Mango (HoneyGold)
Linear
W = 0.42 × L × Wi2
R2= 0.96
Manual estimates of fruit size of fruit on-tree require a sampling strategy, with at-
tention to both variation between trees and to variation within a tree. The SUR sampling
methodology used by Martinez Vega et al. [33] provides one approach.
3.2. Machine Vision Methods
In an early attempt to use RGB-based machine vision in the estimation of grape
bunch weight, bunch pixel area and volume was estimated following object segmentation
based on color within images acquired from side views of vine rows [55]. Estimate errors
were relatively large, at 16 and −17% for area and volume-based estimates, respectively.
However, no correction was made for camera to fruit distance in this study.
Camera to fruit distance can be estimated given an object of known size is present in
the fruit plane. A sticker on each fruit can provide an object of known size. While labeling

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
26 of 37
is labor intensive, it can be carried out for a number of sample fruits through the orchard,
potentially identiﬁed by ﬂowering event. In a parallel approach, Wang et al. [97] described
use of mobile phone imaging of sampled mango fruit on-tree against a backing board with
a scale. The app was reported to achieve lineal measurements of fruit size with an RMSE
of 5 mm, for fruit of lineal dimensions between 50 and 130 mm.
Several camera technologies exist for the estimation of camera to object distance,
including stereo vision, structured light, and Time-of-Flight (ToF) cameras. Stereo vision,
which relies on the matching of images from paired cameras, provides the least accurate
assessment of distance of these methods. The structured light method is based on the
distortion of a pattern of light projected onto the ﬁeld of view. ToF technology is based
on an estimation of the time taken for photons to traverse from an emitter in the camera
to the object and back to a detector in the camera. Structured light and ToF cameras
typically project a near infrared wavelength around 760 nm, and consequently, there can be
operational issues in sunlight, which also contains radiation in this region. LiDAR employs
a ToF technology to provide a point cloud presentation of a given scene. If the point cloud
were dense enough, fruit could be recognized and lineal dimensions measured; however,
this would require a long scanning time. Point cloud density is sparse in LiDAR images
acquired using moving vehicles, but the LiDAR point cloud can be merged with RGB
imagery, with the LiDAR distance obtained for objects detected as fruit in RGB images.
Gongal et al. [51] documented the use of a ToF camera (PMD CamCube 3.0) for the
estimation of apple fruit sizes (n = 150 fruits on 25 random trees). The method tended to
under-predict fruit size (bias = −9.6 mm, on actual diameter of 74.0 mm), with an average
MAE of 15.2%. The largest source of error was poor segmentation of fruit in images,
particularly for partially occluded fruits, leading to an estimate of dimensions not related
to fruit. Wang et al. [97] utilized a Microsoft Kinectv2 ToF camera for the estimation of
mango fruit size from a moving farm vehicle-mounted platform, reporting an RMSE of 4.9
and 4.3 mm (RRMSE of 4.9 and 5.3%) for length and width, respectively, against a manual
measurement with calipers. An ellipse was ﬁtted to the detected objects (fruit), and objects
were discarded if ellipse parameters did not match those expected for a fruit, thus rejecting
partly occluded fruit. An allometric relation was established relating fruit weight to fruit
length width (Table 5). Example data from this system are presented in Figure 9.
Figure 9. Estimated weight of mango fruit on-tree, based on lineal dimensions of fruit assessed using
a ToF camera for estimation of camera to fruit distance and an RGB camera for estimation of fruit
size in pixels.

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
27 of 37
3.3. Prediction of Size at Harvest
Unlike fruit number, fruits continue to increase in size in the weeks before harvest.
Fruit size taken some time before harvest can be used in a forward estimate of fruit size at
harvest using a growth model.
The growth of tree fruit is characterized by three chronological stages: a cell division
stage, which will set the potential size of the fruit, a cell expansion phase and a reserve
accumulation phase. Across these stages, fruit size growth typically follows a double
sigmoid curve. The ﬁnal fruit size is inﬂuenced by the ratio of fruit (sinks) to photosynthetic
capacity as determined by leaf area, photosynthetic conditions, and tree water relations.
Growth models have been presented for a number of fruits, including apple [90–92],
grape [94], kiwifruit [95], mango [96], orange [93] and tomato [98,99] (Table 5). Growth
rate (mm/day or g/day) is highly dependent on species and variety, locale (climate) and
management. Under irrigated conditions, the growth curves for some fruit, such as apples
and pears, can be relatively stable across localities, but growth patterns of other fruit, e.g.,
grapes, can vary widely between localities. Without irrigation, size growth is much more
variable. For example, in a rainfed production system, grape bunch mass increase was less
than 1 g/d growth (stage II) in a dry year, and 3–5 g/d after rainfall (unpublished data).
An empirical model for fruit sizing must therefore be based on size data collected of a
given cultivar and a given locality, under ‘standard’ growing conditions of that site. In the
mango fruit example of Figure 10, a linear model ﬁtted to fruit size data between 32 and 11
days before harvest predicted a harvest fruit weight of 604 g, while the mean actual weight
at harvest was 607 g.
Figure 10. Fruit mass (g) estimated using lineal dimensions temporally up to harvest for mango, cv.
Honey Gold. A linear regression model has been ﬁtted to data between 32 and 11 days before harvest
(dotted line): slope = 3.41 g/day, intercept = 604 g, R2 = 0.99.
More sophisticated models of fruit sizing allow for variations in growing conditions.
For example, Miller et al. [100] reported kiwifruit growth to be most sensitive to water stress
early in fruit development (6-day stress, 14 DAB), while stress in late fruit development
had more impact on improved carbohydrate levels.
4. Measurement of Fruit External Quality
The proportion of fruit with external defects is another critical parameter in the
marketing of fruit. Fruit packlines employ manual and machine vision technology in the
sorting of fruit for such defects, creating product lines (e.g., ﬁrst, second and third grades).

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
28 of 37
Machine vision was ﬁrst used in general color sorting of fruit on packlines in the 1970s,
and was ﬁrst used for major defects on fruit in the 1990s [101]. Modern packlines allow the
operator to collect images of defects and effect training ‘on the go’. A progression from
the use of hard coded features for object segmentation to use of machine learning in these
systems has been reviewed by Li et al. [102] and Naik and Patel [103]. Guo et al. [104]
provide a description of a trainable smart phone-based system, also intended for use in a
postharvest setting.
The pre-sorting of fruit before the ﬁnal grading operation can improve the efﬁciency
of the ﬁnal grading, and earlier knowledge of the proportion of quality graded can inform
marketing decisions. The machine vision techniques used on-line can be extended into the
orchard, for the assessment of grade proportions of fruit while on-tree, albeit under less
controlled imaging conditions. The in-ﬁeld assessment of the proportion of fruit grades
can be used to inform the in-ﬁeld consolidation of harvest bins with similar-quality fruit.
In another step, Pothula et al. [105] report on the development of an in-ﬁeld pre-sorting
machine in which machine vision is employed on a harvest aid to separate fruit by quality
into separate ﬁeld bins.
In another use case, a machine vision system was developed for counting dropped
citrus fruit on trees infected with Huanglongbing disease, with the classiﬁcation of fruit on
the basis of the extent of decay (Choi et al. [106]). The application was intended to inform
management for the control of the disease.
5. Commercial Systems for Fruit Number, Size and External Quality
Commercial adoption occurs when a technology achieves a level of effectiveness,
robustness, ease of use and a cost point that is attractive to users. For example, a number of
providers have commercialized methods for the estimation of grain crop yields, utilizing
remote sensing inputs. Barchart (Chicago, IL, USA) (https://www.barchart.com/cmdty/
markets/agriculture) (accessed on 13 July 2021) produces yield forecasts every day from
June to the end of harvest based on vegetation indices derived from satellite imagery
and recent weather data of each growing area. This private provider forecast extends the
traditional yield forecasts for the major grain crops of wheat, corn and soybean based on
the USDA [107] objective yield surveys. The objective yield surveys involve more than
100 ‘scouts’ that sample crops on set survey routes across the main production regions at
several stages during each crop.
For tree fruit crops, several of the yield forecasting technologies mentioned in the
above review have advanced to the point where commercial adoption is nascent. Exam-
ples include:
Pronofrut (San Fernando, Chile) (https://pronofrut.cl/en) (accessed on 6 May 2021)
provides a yield estimation service using multistage systematic designs and manual sam-
pling for bud, ﬂower and fruit counts and sizing. Estimation errors of 10% or less at the
orchard scale are claimed for estimates of fruit, nuts, berries, vegetables, seeds, and leaf
crops. The sampling is directed using a dedicated smartphone app. For tree fruit yield
estimation, the selection of trees for counting based on ancillary variables that are correlated
with fruit loading and/or quality is also claimed, using software for the detection of tree
canopies and extraction of canopy vegetation indices and characteristics, such as crown
area from high-resolution UAV images (Wulfsohn et al. [108]).
Several machine vision-based systems for tree crop load have been developed.
Intelligent Fruit Vision (Long Bennington, UK) (http://www.intelligentfruitvision.
com/) (accessed on 1 March 2021) offers a vehicle-mounted multi view machine vision
system for apple fruit count and sizing. Geolocation data are recorded, enabling the
production of fruit density maps.
Fruitometry (Bay of Plenty, New Zealand) (https://fruitometry.com/) (accessed on
1 March 2021) provides a vehicle-mounted machine vision system for the detection of
kiwifruit buds, ﬂowers, fruit and canopy characteristics. A minimum imaging rate of
3 hectare/hour is claimed.

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
29 of 37
Green Atlas (Sydney, Australia) (https://greenatlas.com.au/) (accessed on 1 March
2021) offers a farm vehicle-mounted machine vision service for the detection and mapping
of fruits and ﬂowers for apples, almonds, cherries, kiwifruit and wine grapes. The system
also utilizes LiDAR to provide additional measurements of tree attributes (canopy area,
tree height, etc.). An imaging rate of 8 hectares an hour is claimed.
Adroit Robotics (São Paulo, Brazil) (https://adroitrobotics.com) (accessed on 1 March
2021) offers an RGB camera system that can be mounted to a farm tractor. The system has
been used in citrus orchards for fruit counting, sizing and maturity evaluation based on
color, and detection of pests and diseases on leaves.
FruitSpec (Tel Aviv, Israel) (https://www.fruitspec.com/) (accessed on 14 April 2021)
offers a vehicle-mounted multispectral imaging system allowing the display of vegetation
index ratios, which are claimed to allow for the better detection of green fruit. Use with
grapes, citrus, stone and pome fruit for fruit count and fruit sizing is claimed.
Plantai (São Paulo, Brazil) (https://plantai.net/) (accessed on 8 January 2021) offers a
smartphone app for citrus yield estimation from images of citrus trees.
PixFruit (Montpellier, France) is being developed by Faye et al. [43] as a commercial
outcome of CIRAD research. A smart phone image is processed to identify the cultivar of a
mango and count fruit visible in the image, with a factor used to convert to an estimate of
the total fruit load of the tree. A yield gap is calculated to the achievable yield, as deﬁned
by canopy structure, tree age and variety.
Crop Tracker (Kingston, ON, Canada) (croptracker.com/product/harvest-quality-
vision.html) (accessed on 1 March 2021) offers a system in which photogrammetry is used
to create a 3D model of fruit in a harvest ﬁeld bin from images collected with a smart tablet.
Distribution data of fruit size and color are produced. Hectre (https://www.hectre.com/
spectre/) (accessed on 1 May 2021) also targets the sizing of fruit in ﬁeld bins.
6. Measurement of Fruit Maturity
Knowledge of the quantity of fruit expected at harvest is important but knowing when
that fruit will be harvest-mature is equally important to the supply chain. Harvest date
variation is a result of variation in both ﬂowering time and fruit developmental time. Devel-
opmental time is primarily a function of temperature. Thus, tools for the assessment of time
of ﬂowering and a temperature integral can be used to forward estimate the time of harvest
maturity. Alternatively, or additionally, harvest maturity can be gauged using certain
commodity-speciﬁc fruit attributes, such as internal ﬂesh color or dry matter content.
6.1. Thermal Time from Flowering
6.1.1. Heat Units/Growing Degree Days
Plant development is sensitive to temperature, and many models exist for crop matu-
ration based on accumulated heat units, also known as Growing Degree Days (GDDs). The
GDD value is typically calculated using the average of the daily minimum and maximum
temperature minus a base temperature. Some models also include a maximum temper-
ature limit. Daily GDD values are accumulated for the development period of the plant
organ of interest and a total GDD requirement is established for the development of a
plant organ from one phenological stage to another. This requirement is commodity- and
cultivar-speciﬁc.
The estimation of fruit maturation time using heat units has two sources of measure-
ment error. The ﬁrst source is the assessment of the start and end points of the maturation
period, i.e., estimation of the time of ﬂowering and of harvest maturity. Potential methods
to improve these assessments are discussed in the next sections. The second error source is
in the measurement of temperature. Temperatures from previous seasons can be used to
forward predict when fruits will reach an established GDD threshold for maturity, with
the use of current season data up to the current date in season. Obviously, an error is
introduced to the harvest timing estimation if temperatures in the current season differ
to the historical record. Another error relates to the measurement of current season tem-

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
30 of 37
perature, in terms of the device used and its location relative to the block. The advent of
low-cost, remotely logged temperature sensors opens potential for more localized inputs
to GDD estimates.
The use of GDD with wine grapes has been heavily documented, in terms of the
required GDD to reach multiple phenological stages of the crop and the use of GDD in
combination with other inputs. For example, grape cultivar-speciﬁc GDD 10 models that
incorporated information on calendar day of soil thaw, photoperiod, and solar accumula-
tion achieved validation results of 1.9, 1.3, 1.0 and 1.7 days to achieve budbreak, bloom,
veraison and harvest, respectively, compared to the use of models based on cultivar and
GDD 10 alone (10.1, 2.5, 4.2 and 5.0 days, respectively) [109].
For other fruit crops, more work is required to clarify GDD requirements. For ex-
ample, GDD documented for the major Australian mango cultivars vary in terms of the
ﬂower stage taken as the start point for the GDD measurement, and uncertainties on the
assessment of time of ﬂowering and harvest maturity likely account for the variation in
estimates of GDD requirements of a single cultivar [110–112].
6.1.2. Identifying Flowering Events
A goal of farm management is to optimize ﬂowering in terms of extent and period,
using tools such as timing of pruning, water stress followed by relief of stress, trunk
application of paclobutrazol, etc. However, ﬂowering is rarely synchronous across a tree
or between trees in an orchard. The ﬂowering of a canopy or of an orchard may occur in
‘waves’ of different magnitudes. Commercial practice for identifying ﬂowering events is
typically periodic (e.g., weekly) visual observations of several rows in each orchard block to
identify the date of the main ﬂowering events. However, human assessment is dependent
on the expertise and condition of the assessor.
Machine vision has been used in the estimation of ﬂowering level in several crop
types, including apple, almond and mango [38,40,45,113–116]. Darwin et al. [117] provide
a short review of the deep learning models used in the recognition of ﬂowers across all
crop types. Considerable work has been undertaken for the estimation of ﬂowering load in
apple, although the focus of this work is the control of ﬂower thinning methods, which is
undertaken to regulate fruit size, rather than as input to a harvest maturation time model.
Broadly, two approaches have been applied—the measurement of ﬂower to canopy area in
images following the segmentation of ﬂower and vegetative components of the canopy,
and the detection of ﬂowers or inﬂorescences as objects within an image.
In an early attempt, free palmate trained apple trees were photographed from the side
against a black background although 137 of 250 acquired images were not able to be used
due to lighting problems related to sunlight [113]. The extent of ﬂowering was based on
the estimation of the area of ﬂowers in each image, as derived from a segmentation based
on grayscale values. Flower pixel count was correlated to fruit yield. The correlation of
the ratio of pixel counts of inﬂorescences and of canopy per tree to a human assessment
of % of terminals with an inﬂorescence across 48 trees was described by an R2 = 0.87
and an RMSEP = 10.9% [118]. The use of FRCNN and SURF algorithms allowed the
detection of mango panicles instead of pixel counts with a result of R2 = 0.79 and an
RMSEP = 35.3 panicles per tree against a ﬁeld count of panicles of 48 trees [40]. Similarly,
in recent work, a pixel-based classiﬁcation of a 3D point cloud was recommended over
an object-based estimation for the level of apple ﬂowering. However, this approach
depends on synchronous ﬂowering, as pixel area per ﬂower cluster will vary with the
developmental stage of ﬂowering. This was recognized by Vanbrabant et al. [45] who
noted that ‘preconditions of the transferability of the developed method are the ﬂower
phenology stage’.
The detection and count of mango panicles at three developmental stages was achieved
using YOLOv3, a deep learning architecture, for the same dataset as used for panicle pixel
area estimation by Wang et al. [40]. The linear correlation of machine vision count to human
count of panicles per tree across 48 trees was described by an R2 = 0.80 and RMSEP = 35.6

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
31 of 37
panicles per tree for total panicle count per tree, with a precision of 69, 78, and 61% and
a F1 score of 75, 79 and 70 for the three maturation stages, respectively. A time series of
the frequency of the three stages was used to identify the times of peak ﬂowering. Flower
detection and count in apple canopy images has also been achieved using a CNN, with
an average precision of 68% [114] and 59% [115] reported, and with YOLOv4, with mean
average precision of 97.3% [116].
There is thus potential for use of machine vision to augment human assessment of
ﬂowering. Beyond the assessment of the timing of peak ﬂowering events in a block, the
technology also has the capacity to map ﬂowering load across a block. Such information
can inform ﬂower thinning and selective early harvest operations.
6.2. Fruit Attributes
The fruit attributes associated with harvest maturity vary with fruit commodity. The
assessment of such attributes can be used to ‘ﬁne tune’ the timing of harvest time ﬁrst
approximated with heat units. Relevant attributes include fruit shape, skin color, soluble
sugar content (SSC), dry matter content (DMC), titratable acidity, ﬂesh color, ﬁrmness, and
indices of combinations of these attributes, noting that only some of these attributes will
be relevant for a given fruit type, where minimum levels on such attributes have been
incorporated into wholesaler and retailer speciﬁcations (e.g., minimum DMC standards for
mango cultivars, [119]).
Skin color and fruit shape can be assessed visually, and thus are candidates for
estimation in-orchard using a machine vision system. An example application is the
assessment of the maturity of tomato and citrus fruit based on skin color.
Other attributes related to harvest maturity have required a destructive assessment of
fruit. However, two non-invasive techniques have seen adoption for these assessments over
the last decade. Handheld near infrared spectroscopy is now used for the in-orchard non-
invasive assessment of fruit SSC and DM content in thin-skinned fruit, e.g., in apple [120],
avocado [121] and mango [122]; as recently reviewed [101]. For mango, the rate of increase
in fruit DMC has been used to forward predict optimal harvest timing [122]. However, the
level of storage reserves in a fruit, be that starch and sugar in a mango or apple fruit, sugar
in a stone fruit or oil in avocado fruit, can be impacted by growing conditions within a
season. Thus, the target reserve level for optimal harvest maturity should be established in
association with other maturity parameters. For example, in mango, the DM associated
with a desired ﬂesh color can be established for a given growing condition.
A related technology relates to pigment analysis, typically via a two-wavelength
measurement of light transmission through part of the fruit. For example, the DA meter
(TR Truoni, Italy) offers a non-invasive assessment of chlorophyll and anthocyanin content
using a partial transmission optical geometry. As for the NIRS technique, however, the
absolute levels of the DA index associated with harvest maturity should be established
for a given growing condition. Other in-ﬁeld devices are based on proximal ﬂuorescence
sensing, providing a non-invasive assessment of ﬂavonoid and pigment content. For
example, the Multiplex 2 (Mx) ﬂuorescence sensor (Force-A, Orsay, France) has been used
for mapping fruit ripening to support selective harvesting in precision viticulture [123].
7. Conclusions
Long supply chains require careful management, and management needs data—for
tree fruit crops, this includes data on expected fruit numbers, size, quality and timing. The
translation of the remarkable technical advances occurring in many ﬁelds to horticultural
applications is occurring. Sometimes, however, there is a danger of ‘playing with new toys’,
and it is important for researchers not to lose track of the agronomic goal in exploring the
uses of the new technologies.
For fruit number estimation, the rigorous application of a statistical sampling design
can greatly improve the efﬁciency and effectiveness of estimates based on manual counts
of a sample of trees from a given block. Machine vision can provide fruit counts of whole

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
32 of 37
orchards, with the caveat that canopy architecture must allow for the fruit to be visible from
the interrow. The data can also be used to provide yield maps. The indirect correlation of
fruit load to remotely sensed vegetation indices can also provide tree crop load estimates
and maps, but there is a requirement for manual counts for the calibration of the method
at a farm and season level. Yield models can also be based on time series data of past
yields, climatic variables and vegetation spectral indices. Further implementation studies
are required for all methods.
Machine vision techniques also offer promise for the in-orchard estimation of fruit
size, quality and ﬂowering level. Again, with development tools now available, the task is
to undertake implementation activities for each commodity.
For harvest timing, the estimation of ﬂowering extent and timing using machine
vision offers the promise of a quantitative assessment of peak ﬂowering time, providing
input to harvest maturity estimates. The development of IoT technologies is providing
scope for a ﬁner spatial resolution on temperature monitoring, allowing for the improved
implementation of heat unit estimation of time of maturity. Proximal optical sensors
are also allowing for the non-invasive assessment of attributes related to fruit maturity,
augmenting the thermal time estimation. As reviewed by Balafoutis et al. [124], there
are many sensors available that can plug into such a network to ﬁne tune estimates of
harvest timing and quality, from soil and plant water status sensors to dendrometers, and
a developing capacity to use deep learning approaches in the use of these data.
Optimal orchard design is a complex interplay of sociological, economic, political and
technological factors. This interplay results in the need for local optimizations. General
trends are, however, evident in the adoption of systems that reduce labor requirements
while increasing production and/or facilitate mechanical management, e.g., smaller trees,
whether by dwarﬁng or training. The forecast technologies discussed in this review
represent one element in this puzzle. The choice of technology will also require local
optimization on the basis of commodity, production condition, e.g., protected cropping or
open ﬁeld, and market need, e.g., export or local farmers’ market.
In short, this is an exciting period to be involved in the development and application
of tools for the forecast of tree fruit load and harvest timing.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, N.T.A., K.B.W. and D.W.; investigation, N.T.A., K.B.W.
and D.W.; resources, N.T.A., K.B.W. and D.W; writing—original draft preparation, N.T.A., K.B.W. and
D.W.; writing—review and editing, N.T.A., K.B.W. and D.W.; visualization, N.T.A., K.B.W. and D.W.;
supervision, K.B.W. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: K.W. and N.A. received funding support from the Australian Federal Department of Agri-
culture and Water through Horticulture Innovation Australia (project ST19009, Multiscale monitoring
tools for managing Australian tree crops).
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
Conﬂicts of Interest: CQUniversity is involved with Felix instruments in the development of hand-
held near infrared spectrometers used in assessment of fruit maturation. D.W. is linked to Pronofrut,
a provider of yield estimation services in Chile and Spain.
References
1.
van Klompenburg, T.; Kassahun, A.; Catal, C. Crop yield prediction using machine learning: A systematic literature review.
Comput. Electron. Agric. 2020, 177, 105709. [CrossRef]
2.
Scopus. Scopus Document Search. 2021. Available online: https://www.scopus.com/ (accessed on 1 April 2021).
3.
Koirala, A.; Walsh, K.; Wang, Z.; McCarthy, C. Deep learning for real-time fruit detection and orchard fruit load estimation:
Benchmarking of ‘MangoYOLO’. Precis. Agric. 2019, 20, 1107–1135. [CrossRef]
4.
Marcelis, L.F.M.; Heuvelink, E.; Goudriaan, J. Modelling biomass production and yield of horticultural crops: A review. Sci.
Hortic. 1998, 74, 83–111. [CrossRef]

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
33 of 37
5.
Rahmati, M.; Mirás-Avalos, J.M.; Valsesia, P.; Davarynejad, G.H.; Bannayan, M.; Azizi, M.; Lescourret, F.; Génard, M.; Vercambre,
G. Assessing the effects of water stress on peach fruit quality and size using the QualiTree model. In Proceedings of the
International Horticultural Congress IHC2018: International Symposium on Cultivars, Rootstocks and Management Systems of
1281, Istanbul, Turkey, 12–16 August 2018; pp. 539–546. [CrossRef]
6.
Normand, F.; Lauri, P.-E.; Legave, J.M. Climate change and its probable effects on mango production and cultivation. Acta Hortic.
2015, 1075, 21–31. [CrossRef]
7.
Boudon, F.; Persello, S.; Jestin, A.; Briand, A.-S.; Grechi, I.; Fernique, P.; Guédon, Y.; Léchaudel, M.; Lauri, P.-É.; Normand, F.
V-Mango: A functional–structural model of mango tree growth, development and fruit production. Ann. Bot. 2020, 126, 745–763.
[CrossRef] [PubMed]
8.
Dambreville, A.; Lauri, P.-É.; Trottier, C.; Guédon, Y.; Normand, F. Deciphering structural and temporal interplays during the
architectural development of mango trees. J. Exp. Bot. 2013, 64, 2467–2480. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
9.
Sarron, J.; Malézieux, É.; Sané, C.A.B.; Faye, É. Mango yield mapping at the orchard scale based on tree structure and land cover
assessed by UAV. Remote Sens. 2018, 10, 1900. [CrossRef]
10.
Paliwal, A.; Jain, M. The accuracy of self-reported crop yield estimates and their ability to train remote sensing algorithms. Front.
Sustain. Food Syst. 2020, 4, 25. [CrossRef]
11.
Dunn, G.M. Grape and Wine Research and Development Corporation. Yield Forecasting. 2010. Available online: https:
//www.wineaustralia.com/getmedia/5304c16d-23b3-4a6f-ad53-b3d4419cc979/201006_Yield-Forecasting.pdf (accessed on 20
April 2021).
12.
Koirala, A.; Walsh, K.B.; Wang, Z. Attempting to Estimate the Unseen—Correction for Occluded Fruit in Tree Fruit Load
Estimation by Machine Vision with Deep Learning. Agronomy 2021, 11, 347. [CrossRef]
13.
Thompson, S.K. Sampling, 3rd ed.; Wiley: Hoboken, NJ, USA, 2012; ISBN 978-0-470-40231-3.
14.
Wulfsohn, D. Sampling techniques for plants and soil. Landbauforsch. Völkenrode 2010, 340, 3–30.
15.
Wulfsohn, D.; Zamora, F.A.; Téllez, C.P.; Lagos, I.Z.; García-Fiñana, M. Multilevel systematic sampling to estimate total fruit
number for yield forecasts. Precis. Agric. 2012, 13, 256–275. [CrossRef]
16.
Anderson, N.; Underwood, J.; Rahman, M.; Robson, A.; Walsh, K. Estimation of fruit load in mango orchards: Tree sampling
considerations and use of machine vision and satellite imagery. Precis. Agric. 2019, 20, 823–839. [CrossRef]
17.
Wolter, K.M. Introduction to Variance Estimation; Springer: New York, NY, USA, 1985; ISBN 978-0-387-35099-8.
18.
Wagenaar, W.A. Generation of random sequences by human subjects: A critical survey of literature. Psychol. Bull. 1972, 77, 65.
[CrossRef]
19.
Jessen, R.J. Determining the fruit count on a tree by randomized branch sampling. Biometrics 1955, 11, 99–109. [CrossRef]
20.
Allen, R.D. Evaluating Procedures for Estimating Citrus Fruit Yield. Fruit Counts, Ground Photography, Remote Sensing. In
Statistical Reporting Services; US Department of Agriculture: Washington, DC, USA, 1972.
21.
Forshey, C.G.; Elfving, D.C. Estimating yield and fruit numbers of apple trees from branch samples. J. Am. Soc. Hortic. Sci. 1979,
104, 897–900.
22.
Miranda, C.; Santesteban, L.G.; Urrestarazu, J.; Loidi, M.; Royo, J.B. Sampling stratiﬁcation using aerial imagery to estimate fruit
load in peach tree orchards. Agriculture 2018, 8, 78. [CrossRef]
23.
De Silva, H.N.; Hall, A.J.; Cashmore, W.M.; Tustin, D.S. Variation of fruit size and growth within an apple tree and its inﬂuence
on sampling methods for estimating the parameters of mid-season size distributions. Ann. Bot. 2000, 86, 493–501. [CrossRef]
24.
Wulfsohn, D.; Maletti, M.; Toldam-Andersen, T.B. Unbiased estimator for the total number of ﬂowers on a tree. In Proceedings of
the VII International Symposium on Modelling in Fruit Research and Orchard Management, Copenhagen, Denmark, 20 June
2004; Volume 707, pp. 245–252. [CrossRef]
25.
Gardi, J.E.; Wulfsohn, D.; Nyengaard, J.R. handheld support system to facilitate stereological measurements and mapping of
branching structures. J. Microsc. 2007, 227, 124–139. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
26.
Uribeetxebarria, A.; Martínez-Casasnovas, J.A.; Tisseyre, B.; Guillaume, S.; Escolà, A.; Rosell-Polo, J.R.; Arnó, J. Assessing ranked
set sampling and ancillary data to improve fruit load estimates in peach orchards. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2019, 164, 104931.
[CrossRef]
27.
Maletti, G.M.; Wulfsohn, D. Evaluation of variance models for fractionator sampling of trees. J. Microsc. 2006, 222, 228–241.
[CrossRef]
28.
Stout, R.G. Estimating citrus production by use of frame count survey. J. Farm Econ. 1962, 44, 1037–1049. [CrossRef]
29.
Falivene, S.; Hardy, S. New South Wales Department of Primary Industries. Assessing Citrus Crop Load. 2008. Available online:
http://www.dpi.nsw.gov.au/__data/assets/pdf_ﬁle/0007/247813/Assessing-citrus-crop-load.pdf (accessed on 1 March 2021).
30.
Lacey, K. Department of Primary Industries and Regional Development. Estimating Your Citrus Crop. 2019. Available online:
https://www.agric.wa.gov.au/citrus/estimating-your-citrus-crop-load?page=0%2C1 (accessed on 26 April 2021).
31.
Martin, S.; Dunstone, R.; Dunn, G. Victoria Department of Primary Industries. How to Forecast Wine Grape Deliveries Using
Grape Forecaster. 2003. Available online: https://www.fairport.com.au/fairport/Help/How%20to%20forecast%20wine%20
grape%20deliveries%20Grape%20Forcaster.pdf (accessed on 12 April 2021).
32.
Olsen, J.; Goodwin, J. The methods and results of the Oregon Agricultural Statistics Service: Annual objective yield survey of
Oregon hazelnut production. In Proceedings of the VI International Congress on Hazelnut, Davis, CA, USA, 15 July 2001; pp.
533–538. [CrossRef]

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
34 of 37
33.
Martinez Vega, M.V.; Wulfsohn, D.; Clemmensen, L.H.; Toldam-Andersen, T.B. Using multilevel systematic sampling to study
apple fruit (Malus domestica Borkh.) quality and its variability at the orchard scale. Sci. Hortic. 2013, 161, 58–64. [CrossRef]
34.
Wulfsohn, D.; Lagos, I.Z. The use of a multirotor and high-resolution imaging for precision horticulture in Chile: An industry
perspective. In Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Precision Agriculture, Sacramento, CA, USA, 20–23 July 2014.
35.
Koirala, A.; Walsh, K.B.; Wang, Z.; McCarthy, C. Deep learning–Method overview and review of use for fruit detection and yield
estimation. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2019, 162, 219–234. [CrossRef]
36.
Payne, A.B.; Walsh, K.B.; Subedi, P.P.; Jarvis, D. Estimation of mango crop yield using image analysis–segmentation method.
Comput. Electron. Agric. 2013, 91, 57–64. [CrossRef]
37.
Stein, M.; Bargoti, S.; Underwood, J. Image based mango fruit detection, localisation and yield estimation using multiple view
geometry. Sensors 2016, 16, 1915. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
38.
Underwood, J.P.; Hung, C.; Whelan, B.; Sukkarieh, S. Mapping almond orchard canopy volume, ﬂowers, fruit and yield using
lidar and vision sensors. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2016, 130, 83–96. [CrossRef]
39.
Dias, P.A.; Tabb, A.; Medeiros, H. Apple ﬂower detection using deep convolutional networks. Comput. Ind. 2018, 99, 17–28.
[CrossRef]
40.
Wang, Z.; Underwood, J.; Walsh, K.B. Machine vision assessment of mango orchard ﬂowering. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2018, 151,
501–511. [CrossRef]
41.
Koirala, A.; Walsh, K.B.; Wang, Z.; Anderson, N. Deep Learning for Mango (Mangifera indica) Panicle Stage Classiﬁcation.
Agronomy 2020, 10, 143. [CrossRef]
42.
Fu, L.; Liu, Z.; Majeed, Y.; Cui, Y. Kiwifruit yield estimation using image processing by an Android mobile phone. IFAC-
PapersOnLine 2018, 51, 185–190. [CrossRef]
43.
Faye, E.; Sarron, J.; Diatta, J.; Borianne, P. PixFruit: Un outil d’acquisition, de gestion, et de partage de données pour une
normalisation de la ﬁlière Mangue en Afrique de l’Ouest aux services de ses acteurs. In Proceedings of the Symposium
Agriculture Numérique en Afrique, Dakar, Senegal, 28–29 April 2019; Available online: https://hal.umontpellier.fr/hal-02311106
(accessed on 1 May 2021).
44.
Wijethunga, P.; Samarasinghe, S.; Kulasiri, D.; Woodhead, I. Digital image analysis based automated kiwifruit counting technique.
In Proceedings of the 23rd International Conference Image and Vision Computing, Christchurch, New Zealand, 26–28 November
2008; pp. 1–6. [CrossRef]
45.
Vanbrabant, Y.; Delalieux, S.; Tits, L.; Pauly, K.; Vandermaesen, J.; Somers, B. Pear ﬂower cluster quantiﬁcation using RGB drone
imagery. Agronomy 2020, 10, 407. [CrossRef]
46.
Apolo-Apolo, O.E.; Pérez-Ruiz, M.; Martínez-Guanter, J.; Valente, J. A cloud-based environment for generating yield estimation
maps from apple orchards using UAV imagery and a deep learning technique. Front. Plant Sci. 2020, 11, 1086. [CrossRef]
47.
Chen, S.W.; Shivakumar, S.S.; Dcunha, S.; Das, J.; Okon, E.; Qu, C.; Taylor, C.J.; Kumar, V. Counting apples and oranges with deep
learning: A data-driven approach. IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett. 2017, 2, 781–788. [CrossRef]
48.
Liu, X.; Chen, S.W.; Aditya, S.; Sivakumar, N.; Dcunha, S.; Qu, C.; Taylor, C.J.; Das, J.; Kumar, V. Robust fruit counting: Combining
deep learning, tracking, and structure from motion. In Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent
Robots and Systems (IROS), Madrid, Spain, 1–5 October 2018; pp. 1045–1052. [CrossRef]
49.
Liu, X.; Chen, S.W.; Liu, C.; Shivakumar, S.S.; Das, J.; Taylor, C.J.; Underwood, J.; Kumar, V. Monocular camera based fruit
counting and mapping with semantic data association. IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett. 2019, 4, 2296–2303. [CrossRef]
50.
Wang, Z.; Walsh, K.; Koirala, A. Mango Fruit Load Estimation Using a Video Based MangoYOLO—Kalman Filter—Hungarian
Algorithm Method. Sensors 2019, 19, 2742. [CrossRef]
51.
Gongal, A.; Karkee, M.; Amatya, S. Apple fruit size estimation using a 3D machine vision system. Inf. Process. Agric. 2018, 5,
498–503. [CrossRef]
52.
Nuske, S.; Gupta, K.; Narasimhan, S.; Singh, S. Modeling and calibrating visual yield estimates in vineyards. In Field and Service
Robotics; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany; Cham, Switzerland, 2014; pp. 343–356. [CrossRef]
53.
Cheng, H.; Damerow, L.; Sun, Y.; Blanke, M. Early yield prediction using image analysis of apple fruit and tree canopy features
with neural networks. J. Imaging 2017, 3, 6. [CrossRef]
54.
Gongal, A.; Silwal, A.; Amatya, S.; Karkee, M.; Zhang, Q.; Lewis, K. Apple crop-load estimation with over-the-row machine
vision system. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2016, 120, 26–35. [CrossRef]
55.
Font, D.; Tresanchez, M.; Martínez, D.; Moreno, J.; Clotet, E.; Palacín, J. Vineyard yield estimation based on the analysis of high
resolution images obtained with artiﬁcial illumination at night. Sensors 2015, 15, 8284–8301. [CrossRef]
56.
Qureshi, W.S.; Payne, A.; Walsh, K.B.; Linker, R.; Cohen, O.; Dailey, M.N. Machine vision for counting fruit on mango tree
canopies. Precis. Agric. 2017, 18, 224–244. [CrossRef]
57.
Linker, R. Machine learning based analysis of night-time images for yield prediction in apple orchard. Biosyst. Eng. 2018, 167,
114–125. [CrossRef]
58.
Bargoti, S.; Underwood, J.P. Image segmentation for fruit detection and yield estimation in apple orchards. J. Field Robot. 2017, 34,
1039–1060. [CrossRef]
59.
Kuznetsova, A.; Maleva, T.; Soloviev, V. Using YOLOv3 algorithm with pre-and post-processing for apple detection in fruit-
harvesting robot. Agronomy 2020, 10, 1016. [CrossRef]

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
35 of 37
60.
Gan, H.; Lee, W.S.; Alchanatis, V.; Ehsani, R.; Schueller, J.K. Immature green citrus fruit detection using color and thermal images.
Comput. Electron. Agric. 2018, 152, 117–125. [CrossRef]
61.
Xu, J.-X.; Ma, J.; Tang, Y.-N.; Wu, W.-X.; Shao, J.-H.; Wu, W.-B.; Wei, S.-Y.; Liu, Y.-F.; Wang, Y.-C.; Guo, H.-Q. Estimation of
Sugarcane Yield Using a Machine Learning Approach Based on UAV-LiDAR Data. Remote Sens. 2020, 12, 2823. [CrossRef]
62.
Mizani, A.; Ibell, P.; Bally, I.S.E.; Wright, C.L.; Kolala, R. Effects of the percentage of terminal ﬂowering on postharvest fruit
quality in mango (Mangifera indica)’Calypso’™. In Proceedings of the XI International Mango Symposium, Darwin, Australia,
28 September–2 October 2015; pp. 181–186. [CrossRef]
63.
Braun, B.; Bulanon, D.M.; Colwell, J.; Stutz, A.; Stutz, J.; Nogales, C.; Hestand, T.; Verhage, P.; Tracht, T. A Fruit Yield Prediction
Method Using Blossom Detection. In Proceedings of the 2018 ASABE Annual International Meeting; American Society of
Agricultural and Biological Engineers, Detroit, MI, USA, 29 July–1 August 2018; p. 1.
64.
Bulanon, D.M.; Braddock, T.; Allen, B.; Bulanon, J.I. Predicting Fruit Yield Using Shallow Neural Networks. Preprints 2020.
[CrossRef]
65.
Davenport, T. Floral manipulation in mangoes. In Proceedings of the Conference on Mango, Manoa, HI, USA, 9–11 March 1993;
pp. 54–60. Available online: http://hdl.handle.net/10125/16483 (accessed on 1 May 2021).
66.
Winston, E.C. Evaluation of paclobutrazol on growth, ﬂowering and yield of mango cv. Kensington Pride. Aust. J. Exp. Agric.
1992, 32, 97–104. [CrossRef]
67.
Zhao, Y.; Potgieter, A.B.; Zhang, M.; Wu, B.; Hammer, G.L. Predicting wheat yield at the ﬁeld scale by combining high-resolution
Sentinel-2 satellite imagery and crop modelling. Remote Sens. 2020, 12, 1024. [CrossRef]
68.
Zhao, D.; Reddy, K.R.; Kakani, V.G.; Read, J.J.; Koti, S. Canopy reﬂectance in cotton for growth assessment and lint yield prediction.
Eur. J. Agron. 2007, 26, 335–344. [CrossRef]
69.
Sayago, S.; Bocco, M. Crop yield estimation using satellite images: Comparison of linear and non-linear models. AgriScientia 2018,
35, 1–9. [CrossRef]
70.
Hammer, R.G.; Sentelhas, P.C.; Mariano, J.C.Q. Sugarcane yield prediction through data mining and crop simulation models.
Sugar Tech. 2020, 22, 216–225. [CrossRef]
71.
Cai, Y.; Guan, K.; Lobell, D.; Potgieter, A.B.; Wang, S.; Peng, J.; Xu, T.; Asseng, S.; Zhang, Y.; You, L. Integrating satellite and
climate data to predict wheat yield in Australia using machine learning approaches. Agric. For. Meteorol. 2019, 274, 144–159.
[CrossRef]
72.
Yadav, I.S.; Rao, N.K.S.; Reddy, B.M.C.; Rawal, R.D.; Srinivasan, V.R.; Sujatha, N.T.; Bhattacharya, C.; Rao, P.P.N.; Ramesh, K.S.;
Elango, S. Acreage and production estimation of mango orchards using Indian Remote Sensing (IRS) satellite data. Sci. Hortic.
2002, 93, 105–123. [CrossRef]
73.
Zaman, Q.U.; Schumann, A.W.; Hostler, H.K. Estimation of citrus fruit yield using ultrasonically-sensed tree size. Appl. Eng.
Agric. 2006, 22, 39–44. [CrossRef]
74.
Ye, X.; Sakai, K.; Asada, S.I.; Sasao, A. Inter-relationships between canopy features and fruit yield in citrus as detected by airborne
multispectral imagery. Trans. ASABE 2008, 51, 739–751. [CrossRef]
75.
Sepulcre-Cantó, G.; Zarco-Tejada, P.J.; Jiménez-Muñoz, J.C.; Sobrino, J.A.; Soriano, M.A.; Fereres, E.; Vega, V.; Pastor, M.
Monitoring yield and fruit quality parameters in open-canopy tree crops under water stress. Implications for ASTER. Remote
Sens. Environ. 2007, 107, 455–470. [CrossRef]
76.
Maselli, F.; Chiesi, M.; Brilli, L.; Moriondo, M. Simulation of olive fruit yield in Tuscany through the integration of remote sensing
and ground data. Ecol. Model. 2012, 244, 1–12. [CrossRef]
77.
Robson, A.; Rahman, M.M.; Muir, J. Using worldview satellite imagery to map yield in avocado (Persea americana): A case study
in Bundaberg, Australia. Remote Sens. 2017, 9, 1223. [CrossRef]
78.
Rahman, M.M.; Robson, A.; Bristow, M. Exploring the potential of high resolution worldview-3 Imagery for estimating yield of
mango. Remote Sens. 2018, 10, 1866. [CrossRef]
79.
Bai, T.; Zhang, N.; Mercatoris, B.; Chen, Y. Improving jujube fruit tree yield estimation at the ﬁeld scale by assimilating a single
landsat remotely-sensed LAI into the WOFOST model. Remote Sens. 2019, 11, 1119. [CrossRef]
80.
Chang, A.; Jung, J.; Yeom, J.; Maeda, M.M.; Landivar, J.A.; Enciso, J.M.; Avila, C.A.; Anciso, J.R. Unmanned Aircraft System-(UAS-)
Based High-Throughput Phenotyping (HTP) for Tomato Yield Estimation. J. Sens. 2021. [CrossRef]
81.
Hoblyn, T.N.; Grubb, N.H.; Painter, A.C.; Wates, B.L. Studies in Biennial Bearing.—I. J. Pomol. Hortic. Sci. 1937, 14, 39–76.
[CrossRef]
82.
Dahal, K.C.; Bhattarai, S.P.; Midmore, D.J.; Oag, D.R.; Walsh, K.B. Temporal yield variability in subtropical table grape production.
Sci. Hortic. 2019, 246, 951–956. [CrossRef]
83.
Sakai, K.; Noguchi, Y.; Asada, S.-I. Detecting chaos in a citrus orchard: Reconstruction of nonlinear dynamics from very short
ecological time series. Chaos Solitons Fractals 2008, 38, 1274–1282. [CrossRef]
84.
Zhang, Z.; Jin, Y.; Chen, B.; Brown, P. California almond yield prediction at the orchard level with a machine learning approach.
Front. Plant Sci. 2019, 10, 809. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
85.
Lampinen, B.D.; Udompetaikul, V.; Browne, G.T.; Metcalf, S.G.; Stewart, W.L.; Contador, L.; Negrón, C.; Upadhyaya, S.K. A
mobile platform for measuring canopy photosynthetically active radiation interception in orchard systems. HortTechnology 2012,
22, 237–244. [CrossRef]

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
36 of 37
86.
Jin, Y.; Chen, B.; Lampinen, B.D.; Brown, P.H. Advancing agricultural production with machine learning analytics: Yield
determinants for California’s almond orchards. Front. Plant Sci. 2020, 11, 290. [CrossRef]
87.
Peiris, T.S.G.; Hansen, J.W.; Zubair, L. Use of seasonal climate information to predict coconut production in Sri Lanka. Int. J.
Climatol. A J. R. Meteorol. Soc. 2008, 28, 103–110. [CrossRef]
88.
Mayer, D.G.; Chandra, K.A.; Burnett, J.R. Improved crop forecasts for the Australian macadamia industry from ensemble models.
Agric. Syst. 2019, 173, 519–523. [CrossRef]
89.
Brinkhoff, J.; Robson, A.J. Block-level macadamia yield forecasting using spatio-temporal datasets. Agric. Forest Meteorol. 2021,
303, 108369. [CrossRef]
90.
Marini, R.P.; Schupp, J.R.; Baugher, T.A.; Crassweller, R. Relationships between fruit weight and diameter at 60 days after bloom
and at harvest for three apple cultivars. HortScience 2019, 54, 86–91. [CrossRef]
91.
Lakso, A.N.; Corelli Grappadelli, L.; Barnard, J.; Gofﬁnet, M.C. An expolinear model of the growth pattern of the apple fruit. J.
Hortic. Sci. 1995, 70, 389–394. [CrossRef]
92.
Ortega-Farias, S.; Flores, L.; León, L. Elaboration of a Predictive Table of Apple Diameter cv. Granny Smith Using Growing
Degree Days. 2002. Available online: https://tspace.library.utoronto.ca/handle/1807/24073 (accessed on 1 May 2021).
93.
Verreynne, S. Fruit Size and Crop Load Prediction. Chapter 5, Part 7, Integrated Production Guidelines; Citrus Research International:
Port Elizabeth, South Africa, 2010; Volume 2, Available online: https://www.citrusres.com/system/ﬁles/documents/production-
guidelines/Ch%205-7%20Fruit%20size%20and%20crop%20load%20prediction%20Sep%202010.pdf (accessed on 12 April 2021).
94.
Ellis, R.; Moltchanova, E.; Gerhard, D.; Trought, M.; Yang, L. Using Bayesian growth models to predict grape yield. OENO ONE
2020, 54, 443–453. [CrossRef]
95.
Hall, A.J.; McPherson, H.G.; Crawford, R.A.; Seager, N.G. Using early-season measurements to estimate fruit volume at harvest
in kiwifruit. N. Z. J. Crop Hortic. Sci. 1996, 24, 379–391. [CrossRef]
96.
Spreer, W.; Müller, J. Estimating the mass of mango fruit (Mangifera indica, cv. Chok Anan) from its geometric dimensions by
optical measurement. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2011, 75, 125–131. [CrossRef]
97.
Wang, Z.; Walsh, K.B.; Verma, B. On-tree mango fruit size estimation using RGB-D images. Sensors 2017, 17, 2738. [CrossRef]
98.
Monselise, S.P.; Varga, A.; Bruinsma, J. Growth analysis of the tomato fruit, Lycopersicon esculentum Mill. Ann. Bot. 1978, 42,
1245–1247. [CrossRef]
99.
Caballero, B.; Trugo, L.C.; Finglas, P.M. Encyclopedia of Food Sciences and Nutrition; Academic Press: Cambridge, MA, USA, 2003;
ISBN 012227055X.
100. Miller, S.A.; Smith, G.S.; Boldingh, H.L.; Johansson, A. Effects of water stress on fruit quality attributes of kiwifruit. Ann. Bot.
1998, 81, 73–81. [CrossRef]
101. Walsh, K.B.; Blasco, J.; Zude-Sasse, M.; Sun, X. Visible-NIR ‘point’spectroscopy in postharvest fruit and vegetable assessment:
The science behind three decades of commercial use. Postharvest Biol. Technol. 2020, 168, 111246. [CrossRef]
102. Li, J.B.; Huang, W.Q.; Zhao, C.J. Machine vision technology for detecting the external defects of fruits—A review. Imaging Sci. J.
2015, 63, 241–251. [CrossRef]
103. Naik, S.; Patel, B. Machine vision based fruit classiﬁcation and grading-a review. Int. J. Comput. Appl. 2017, 170, 22–34. [CrossRef]
104. Guo, Z.; Zhang, M.; Lee, D.-J.; Simons, T. Smart Camera for Quality Inspection and Grading of Food Products. Electronics 2020, 9,
505. [CrossRef]
105. Pothula, A.K.; Zhang, Z.; Lu, R. Design features and bruise evaluation of an apple harvest and in-ﬁeld presorting machine. Trans.
ASABE 2018, 61, 1135–1144. [CrossRef]
106. Choi, D.; Lee, W.S.; Ehsani, R.; Schueller, J.; Roka, F.M. Detection of dropped citrus fruit on the ground and evaluation of decay
stages in varying illumination conditions. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2016, 127, 109–119. [CrossRef]
107. USDA. United States Department of Agriculture. Objective Yield Survey. 2020. Available online: https://www.nass.usda.gov/
Surveys/Guide_to_NASS_Surveys/Objective_Yield/index.php (accessed on 13 April 2021).
108. Wulfsohn, D.; Cohen, O.; Lagos, I.Z. OrchardMapper: Application for creating tree scale maps from high resolution orthomosaics.
In Proceedings of the AgEng 2018, Wageningen, The Netherlands, 8–11 July 2018.
109. Schrader, J.A.; Domoto, P.A.; Nonnecke, G.R.; Cochran, D.R. Multifactor Models for Improved Prediction of Phenological Timing
in Cold-climate Wine Grapes. HortScience 2020, 1–14. [CrossRef]
110. Henriod, R.; Sole, D. Development of maturity standards for a new Australian mango cultivar, ‘NMBP-1243’. In Proceedings of
the XI International Mango Symposium, Darwin, Australia, 28 September–2 October 2015; pp. 17–22. [CrossRef]
111. Hofman, P.; Macnish, A.; Duong, H.; Bryant, P.; Winston, T.; Scurr, R.; Joyce, D. Department of Agriculture and Fisheries, QLD.
Improving Consumer Appeal of Honey Gold Mango by Reducing under Skin Browning and Red Lenticel Discolouration. 2017.
Available online: http://era.daf.qld.gov.au/id/eprint/6545/1/MG13016%20ﬁnal%20report-581.pdf (accessed on 1 March 2021).
112. Moore, C. Northern Territory Government. Mango Heat Sums Instructions. 2013. Available online: https://nt.gov.au/__data/
assets/pdf_ﬁle/0009/267678/heat-sum-instructions.pdf (accessed on 21 April 2021).
113. Aggelopoulou, A.; Bochtis, D.; Fountas, S.; Swain, K.C.; Gemtos, T.; Nanos, G. Yield prediction in apple orchards based on image
processing. Precis. Agric. 2011, 12, 448–456. [CrossRef]
114. Farjon, G.; Krikeb, O.; Hillel, A.B.; Alchanatis, V. Detection and counting of ﬂowers on apple trees for better chemical thinning
decisions. Precis. Agric. 2019, 1–19. [CrossRef]

Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409
37 of 37
115. Tian, Y.; Yang, G.; Wang, Z.; Li, E.; Liang, Z. Instance segmentation of apple ﬂowers using the improved mask R–CNN model.
Biosyst. Eng. 2020, 193, 264–278. [CrossRef]
116. Wu, D.; Lv, S.; Jiang, M.; Song, H. Using channel pruning-based YOLO v4 deep learning algorithm for the real-time and accurate
detection of apple ﬂowers in natural environments. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2020, 178, 105742. [CrossRef]
117. Darwin, B.; Dharmaraj, P.; Prince, S.; Popescu, D.E.; Hemanth, D.J. Recognition of Bloom/Yield in Crop Images Using Deep
Learning Models for Smart Agriculture: A Review. Agronomy 2021, 11, 646. [CrossRef]
118. Wang, Z.; Verma, B.; Walsh, K.B.; Subedi, P.; Koirala, A. Automated mango ﬂowering assessment via reﬁnement segmentation. In
Proceedings of the 2016 International Conference on Image and Vision Computing New Zealand (IVCNZ), Palmerston North,
New Zealand, 21–22 November 2016; pp. 1–6. [CrossRef]
119. Horticulture Innovation Australia, 2016 Mango Industry Quality Standards. Available online: https://www.horticulture.
com.au/globalassets/hort-innovation/resource-assets/mg15002-2016-mango-industry-quality-standards.pdf (accessed on 1
March 2021).
120. Peirs, A.; Tirry, J.; Verlinden, B.; Darius, P.; Nicolaï, B.M. Effect of biological variability on the robustness of NIR models for
soluble solids content of apples. Postharvest Biol. Technol. 2003, 28, 269–280. [CrossRef]
121. Clark, C.J.; McGlone, V.A.; Requejo, C.; White, A.; Woolf, A.B. Dry matter determination in ‘Hass’ avocado by NIR spectroscopy.
Postharvest Biol. Technol. 2003, 29, 301–308. [CrossRef]
122. Anderson, N.T.; Subedi, P.P.; Walsh, K.B. Manipulation of mango fruit dry matter content to improve eating quality. Sci. Hortic.
2017, 226, 316–321. [CrossRef]
123. Tuccio, L.; Cavigli, L.; Rossi, F.; Dichala, O.; Katsogiannos, F.; Kalfas, I.; Agati, G. Fluorescence-sensor mapping for the in vineyard
non-destructive assessment of crimson seedless table grape quality. Sensors 2020, 20, 983. [CrossRef]
124. Balafoutis, A.T.; Evert, F.K.V.; Fountas, S. Smart Farming Technology Trends: Economic and Environmental Effects, Labor Impact,
and Adoption Readiness. Agronomy 2020, 10, 743. [CrossRef]
