Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 211 (2023) 108051
Available online 13 July 2023
0168-1699/© 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
Object detection and tracking on UAV RGB videos for early extraction of 
grape phenotypic traits 
Mar Ariza-Sentís a,1, Hilmy Baja b,*,1, Sergio V´elez a, Jo˜ao Valente a 
a Information Technology Group, Wageningen University & Research, 6708 PB Wageningen, the Netherlands 
b Laboratory of Geo-Information Science and Remote Sensing, Wageningen University & Research, 6708 PB Wageningen, the Netherlands   
A R T I C L E I N F O  
Keywords: 
Viticulture 
Instance segmentation 
MOTS 
PointTrack 
YOLACT 
Spatial Embeddings 
UAV 
Video 
A B S T R A C T  
Grapevine phenotyping is the process of determining the physical properties (e.g., size, shape, and number) of 
grape bunches and berries. Grapevine phenotyping information provides valuable characteristics to monitor the 
sanitary status of the vine. Knowing the number and dimensions of bunches and berries at an early stage of 
development provides relevant information to the winegrowers about the yield to be harvested. However, the 
process of counting and measuring is usually done manually, which is laborious and time-consuming. Previous 
studies have attempted to implement bunch detection on red bunches in vineyards with leaf removal and surveys 
have been done using ground vehicles and handled cameras. However, Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV) 
mounted with RGB cameras, along with computer vision techniques offer a cheap, robust, and timesaving 
alternative. Therefore, Multi-object tracking and segmentation (MOTS) is utilized in this study to determine the 
traits of individual white grape bunches and berries from RGB videos obtained from a UAV acquired over a 
commercial vineyard with a high density of leaves. To achieve this goal two datasets with labelled images and 
phenotyping measurements were created and made available in a public repository. PointTrack algorithm was 
used for detecting and tracking the grape bunches, and two instance segmentation algorithms - YOLACT and 
Spatial Embeddings - have been compared for finding the most suitable approach to detect berries. It was found 
that the detection performs adequately for cluster detection with a MODSA of 93.85. For tracking, the results 
were not sufficient when trained with 679 frames.This study provides an automated pipeline for the extraction of 
several grape phenotyping traits described by the International Organization of Vine and Wine (OIV) descriptors. 
The selected OIV descriptors are the bunch length, width, and shape (codes 202, 203, and 208, respectively) and 
the berry length, width, and shape (codes 220, 221, and 223, respectively). Lastly, the comparison regarding the 
number of detected berries per bunch indicated that Spatial Embeddings assessed berry counting more accurately 
(79.5%) than YOLACT (44.6%).   
1. Introduction 
Viticulture is relevant in many countries in Europe because of its 
large contribution to the European socioeconomic sector (Fraga et al., 
2012). Of the 7.3 million hectares devoted to vineyards worldwide, 45% 
of that, 3.3 million hectares, are located in Europe (International 
Organisation of Vine and Wine, 2021). In the last years, with the 
growing importance of precision agriculture and specifically precision 
viticulture, worldwide winegrowers are applying the newest advances in 
technology to their vineyards to increase accuracy in crop monitoring, 
precise fertilization and pesticide application, and yield forecasting, 
among other activities (Matese & Di Gennaro, 2015). 
To this extent, phenotyping is an important tool in agriculture, 
usually made through field inspections, which are time-consuming and 
laborious (Rahaman et al., 2015). However, advances in remote sensing, 
such as the usage of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) with multiple 
types of sensors onboard offer a time-saving alternative to traditional 
phenotyping. In this sense, computer vision techniques, such as object 
detection and tracking, come into play as analysis tools of the datasets 
acquired with the UAVs or Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGVs). 
Recent studies have focused on phenotyping, mostly on 3D point 
clouds. Rose et al. (2016) used a vehicle that had multiple cameras 
* Corresponding author. 
E-mail address: hilmy.baja@wur.nl (H. Baja).   
1 Authors contributed equally. 
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect 
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/compag 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2023.108051 
Received 11 April 2023; Received in revised form 5 July 2023; Accepted 6 July 2023   

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 211 (2023) 108051
2
mounted on it, capturing 3D data by reconstructing the stereo images of 
the grapes using point clouds in a vineyard setting to then obtain se­
mantic data of the berry phenotype. Milella et al. (2019) used a similar 
method to obtain the data using an RGB-Depth camera, which reached 
an accuracy of 91% of semantically segmenting grapes using the VGG19 
neural network architecture (Simonyan & Zisserman, 2014). Rist et al. 
(2019) utilized predictive modeling and 3D field phenotyping with 360◦
lab scans of grape bunches as Ground Truth (GT). 
Many studies have applied object detection in the field of woody 
crops, using one-stage or two-stage detection algorithms. For mangoes, 
Stein et al. (2016) deployed a Faster R-CNN detection algorithm, and 
Wang et al. (2019) deployed a YOLO-based detection algorithm. A study 
by Bargoti & Underwood (2017) looked into apples, mangoes, and al­
monds using Faster R-CNN. Apolo-Apolo et al. (2020) focused on orange 
detection using images captures from a UAV implementing Faster R- 
CNN. Fruit identification on canopies is difficult; occluded fruit-on-fruit 
and fruit-on-leaves is a scenario that simple bounding boxes may not be 
able to handle. Consequently, extra information is required for precise 
classification. Adding masks on top of the bounding boxes can signifi­
cantly increase accuracy as demonstrated by Santos et al. (2020) in a 
study about grapes. It was found that using Mask R-CNN achieved an F1 
score of 0.84 compared to 0.65 for YOLOv2 (considering an intersect 
over union, or IoU, of 0.5). In addition, Tian et al. (2019) found that 
while detecting apples, simple bounding boxes cannot precisely retrieve 
shape and contour information, which are important additional features 
for the recognition of fruits. In accordance, Jia et al. (2020) have also 
achieved similar results to Santos et al. while using Mask R-CNN for 
apple detection. A recent study from Li et al. (2023) focused on 
multitask-aware network for fruit bunch detection and region segmen­
tation, obtaining promising results for assisting cherry tomato harvest­
ing in greenhouses. 
Several studies in the agricultural field about the detection and 
tracking of fruits have utilized the Hungarian algorithm or Kalman filter 
(Kalman, 1960) to track different fruits, such as seedlings, mangoes, 
apples, and oranges (Jiang et al., 2019; X. Liu et al., 2018; Wang et al., 
2019) with positive results. However, the methods they use are not end- 
to-end trainable, since they add an additional tracking branch to the 
detection algorithm (Voigtlaender et al., 2019) (L. Yang et al., 2019). A 
standardized detection and tracking framework with an end-to-end 
trainable algorithm is needed in order to evaluate performance for 
different objects and research fields. 
Multi Object Tracking (Leal-Taix´e et al., 2015) is a popular computer 
vision task that has several existing state-of-the-art algorithms. How­
ever, the MOT framework is an object detection task, so it uses simple 
bounding boxes to track objects. Multi Object Tracking and Segmenta­
tion (MOTS) paved the way to much more accessible computer vision 
research pertaining to object tracking with instance segmentation. 
Voigtlaender et al. (2019) developed this computer vision task alongside 
the first novel end-to-end trainable MOTS detection and tracking 
framework, called TrackR-CNN. 
There are several state-of-the-art MOTS algorithms that have been 
developed such as ViP-DeepLab (Qiao et al., 2020), ReMOTS (F. Yang 
et al., 2021), and PointTrack (Xu et al., 2020). These algorithms have 
been tested on KITTI MOTS, a dataset of cars and pedestrians that has 
been annotated with the MOTS standard. ViP-DeepLab utilizes 3D point 
clouds (Nguyen & Le, 2013) to predict spatial location, temporal class, 
and a consistent temporal location for each 3D cloud. This temporal 
consistency helps increase tracking performance for the algorithm. 
ReMOTS uses a simple self-supervising refining of tracklets from pre­
dicted masks. PointTrack learns instance embeddings by converting 
images into 2D point cloud representations (Neven et al., 2019). These 
2D point clouds allow a tracking-by-points system that achieves quite 
accurate results. 
There have been previous studies on MOTS for woody crops. De Jong 
et al. (2022) implemented additional tracking branches on TrackR-CNN. 
The additional tracking branches are the Kalman filter, and optical flow 
(Horn & Schunck, 1981). Moreover, PointTrack (Xu et al., 2020) was 
also implemented showing promising results and potential in apple yield 
estimation. Nevertheless, they also revealed many challenges in using 
MOTS for fruit counting and tracking, such as the homogeneity of fruits, 
the size of the fruits, and the challenging orchard environment. Ariza- 
Sentís et al. (2022) showed the potential of PointTrack algorithm for 
grape bunch detection and tracking using UAV RGB videos. Neverthe­
less, they also faced the same problems of fruit homogeneity and com­
plex environment illumination. 
A common technique used in the studies mentioned is the usage of 
3D input data of grape bunches for accuracy. Santos et al. (2020) did a 
study about instance segmentation with grape bunches. The dataset used 
is a very well-made grape bunch annotated dataset called the Embrapa 
Wine Grape Instance Segmentation Dataset (WGISD), composed of 300 
images showing around 4000 grape bunches. The WGISD is a dataset 
composed of images from vineyards with a trellis system-based wine 
grape production, taken with two cameras. Hence, the images taken 
were very clear and close, with a 1-meter distance from the grapes. The 
clear and clean images of the grapes bring questions as to whether a 
model trained with this dataset will be robust enough for images ac­
quired from different platforms, e.g., UAVs. So far, there is a lack of 
datasets that were taken from UAVs. It is therefore interesting to test 
images acquired from UAVs, considering the many “all-in-one” uses they 
have (Tsouros et al., 2019), and their increasing research and use in 
agriculture (Rejeb et al., 2022). 
With respect to the berry counts, Nuske et al. (2011) explored the 
computer vision field with the Radial Symmetry Transform (Loy & 
Zelinsky, 2003), which employed the transform to find berry candidates 
in images. This is further filtered with a machine learning technique (K 
nearest neighbor classifier), which then finally performed linear 
regression on the detected berries. In a further study, Nuske et al. (2014) 
relayed the difficulty of berry and bunch association due to touching 
bunches adjacent grape bunches. Hence, a deep learning method that 
first detects bunches and subsequently detects berries from that bunch 
could potentially solve this problem. 
The main aims of this article are the following: 1) to detect and track 
green grape bunches and berries over UAV RGB videos recorded on a 
commercial vineyard, presenting challenging lighting conditions and 
leaf occlusion, and 2) provide phenotypic traits such as the bunch and 
berry length, width, and shape at a relatively early stage of bunch 
development, which is critical in viticulture. 
2. Materials and methods 
The workflow followed in this research is summarized in Fig. 1. The 
procedure started by acquiring the UAV RGB videos, with the posterior 
data cleaning and annotation with grape bunch and berry labels. Af­
terward, the workflow is subdivided into two main branches, the first, in 
red, devoted to detecting and tracking bunches, for which the Point­
Track algorithm was trained. The second main branch, in blue, aimed at 
detecting the berries within the already identified grape bunches. 
Finally, the outputs of the research are the automatically-extracted the 
International Organization of Vine and Wine (OIV) descriptors for 
bunches and berries. Further details of each step are provided in the 
following subsections. 
2.1. Data acquisition 
The flights were carried out on June 28th, 2021, over four rows of a 
1.06 ha and 8.1% slope commercial vineyard Vitis vinifera cv. Loureiro. 
The vineyard, property of “Bodegas Terras Gauda, S.A.” is located in 
Tomi˜no, Spain (X: 516989.02, Y: 4644806.53; ETRS89 / UTM zone 29 
N) (Fig. 2). The vines were planted in 1990 with a NE-SW orientation, 
and grafted on 196.17C rootstock. Spontaneous vegetation species, such 
as mint, were present between rows. The plants are trained in vertical 
shoot positioning and managed in vertical trellis system. The distance 
M. Ariza-Sentís et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 211 (2023) 108051
3
between plants and rows was 2.5 × 3 m, respectively. The vineyard is 
part of the “Rías Baixas AOP” (Appellation of Origin) and hence, the 
vineyard is managed following the protocol and legislation of the AOP. 
No leaf removal was carried out and therefore, the videos present leaf 
occlusion. 
The RGB videos were recorded using the UAV platform DJI Matrice 
210 (DJI Sciences and Technologies Ltd., Shenzhen, Guangdong, China) 
at a flight speed of 0.7 m per second and a flight altitude of 3 m above 
ground level. The flights were carried out on a sunny day, with wind 
velocity lower than 0.5 m/s. The camera mounted on the UAV was a DJI 
Zenmuse X5S. The specifications of the camera are shown in Table 1. 
In total, 40 videos were recorded over the four rows in which the 
flights were executed, reaching 7.49 gigabytes of video sequences. The 
rows over which the UAV flew were selected according to the ripening 
stage of the bunches, to have a representative sample of the ripening 
phase over the four rows. It can be observed in Fig. 2-right that no row 5 
was flown over. The main reason was that many plants of that row were 
affected by esca disease and hence, the vines did not count with many 
bunches. 
2.2. Annotation procedure 
During this research two annotation types were used: MOTS to detect 
and track grape bunches, and COCO to detect berries (Fig. 3). All the 
annotations were labeled using CVAT software2 (CVAT.ai Corporation, 
2022). 
2.2.1. Grape bunch dataset 
The grape bucnhes were annotated with a per-pixel accuracy, mak­
ing sure that only the grapes were annotated, without the peduncle of 
the bunch. A grape bunch was annotated if it was visible on the camera, 
even when it was under a shade. In total, 29 video sequences were 
labeled to detect and track bunches, with a total number of 679 anno­
tated frames. From those videos, an approximate 70/30 split was used 
for training and testing purposes. For reproducibility and to extend the 
research done in this field, the dataset and the MOTS labels of the grape 
bunches were made available (Ariza-Sentís et al., 2023). 
2.2.2. Berry dataset 
Each visible berry was annotated in each bunch, so occluded berries 
Fig. 1. Workflow diagram of this study. The common branch for all procedures, in white, consists of acquiring the dataset with the UAVs and the posterior cleaning 
and annotation of the bunches and berries. In red, is the grape bunch detection and tracking procedure. In blue, the detection of berries. Finally, in white again since 
it is a common branch, the outputs of the study, being the bunch and berry phenotypic traits and the extraction of OIV descriptors automatically. 
M. Ariza-Sentís et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 211 (2023) 108051
4
were ignored in the annotation process. The berries were not annotated 
across frames because they were not meant to be tracked, only detected. 
Hence, the dataset was composed of selected frames from the training 
sequences from the grape bunch dataset. The berry dataset consists of a 
total of 33 images including 4905 annotated berry masks. From those, an 
approximate 70/30 split was implemented for training/testing. 
2.3. Algorithms and model evaluation 
2.3.1. PointTrack for bunch detection and tracking 
For the detection and tracking of the bunches, PointTrack was 
implemented in two steps: (1) training the instance segmentation model 
(Spatial Embeddings), and (2) training the PointTrack model, for 
instance, embedding association. 
To train the instance segmentation model, an Adam optimizer 
(Kingma & Ba, 2017) was used with a learning rate of 5 × 10-5, and the 
finetune training used a learning rate of 5 × 10-6. These learning rates 
were the best values used in the original implementation of Spatial 
Embeddings. 
To start the pre-training, the image crops of the instance annotations 
were generated first, so the algorithm could learn from the instance 
crops. In practice, the authors of PointTrack used the KINS dataset (Qi 
et al., 2019) that was annotated in the COCO format to produce these 
instance crops. However, using a custom dataset to generate these 
instance crops required quite some work to convert them to the right 
COCO format files. 
Other parameters that needed to be defined at the start of the 
training session were (1) batch size and (2) epochs. A batch size of 20 
was used to train the instance crops, considering the high number of 
available instance crops, and the limitation of memory. A number of at 
least 50 epochs is needed to let the network learn all the instance crops, 
in accordance with the number of instance crops available and the batch 
size. Xu et al. (2020) also used this number when training KITTI MOTS. 
However, for the grape bunches, this number was not enough to show 
any meaningful improvement in segmentation performance, therefore, 
training in increments of 200 was done, then further increased until the 
performance was stagnating, or overfitting was observed. 
Transfer learning (Torrey & Shavlik, 2010) was used to train the 
Fig. 2. Left: Location of the vineyard over the Iberian peninsula (coordinates in WGS84). Right: Location of rows 4, 6, 7, and 8 within the vineyard (coordinates in 
ETRS89 / UTM zone 29 N). . 
Adapted from Ariza-Sentís et al. (2023) 
Table 1 
Camera specifications of the DJI Zenmuse X5S.  
Camera characteristics 
Values 
Focal aperture range 
f1.7 - f.16 
Shutter speed 
1/8000 
Frame width 
4096 
Frame height 
2160 
Frame rate 
59.94 frames/second  
Fig. 3. Example of the annotations produced with the CVAT software. Left: grape bunch dataset used for detection and tracking. Right: berry dataset used 
for detection. 
M. Ariza-Sentís et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 211 (2023) 108051
5
Spatial Embeddings model. Hence, pre-trained weights from the KITTI 
MOTS dataset were implemented to boost the identification of more 
general features such as shapes, edges, and textures (Neuhold et al., 
2017). 
Finally, to train PointTrack, Adam optimizer was also used with a 
learning rate of 2 × 10-3, in accordance with Xu et al. (2020). The batch 
size used was 64, considering the memory limitations of the hardware 
used. 
Two metrics were used to evaluate the tracking performance of 
PointTrack: MOTS (Multiple Object Tracking and Segmentation Accu­
racy) and sMOTSA (soft MOTSA) (Eq 1, 2). 
MOTSA = |TP| −|FP| −|IDS|
|M|
(1)  
sMOTSA =̃ TP −|FP| −|IDS|
|M|
(2) 
where: 
TP are true positives, number of masks mapped to ground truth 
masks (where IoU > 0.5). 
T̃P are soft true positives, sum of the IoU of all true positives. 
FP are false positives, the number of masks that are not mapped to a 
ground truth mask. 
IDS are id switches, ground truth mask in which its ID was switched 
in a previous frame. 
M is the number of ground truth masks. 
Concerning the detection performance, MOTSP (Multiple Object 
Tracking and Segmentation Precision) and MODSP (Multiple Object 
Detection and Segmentation Precision) were calculated (Eq. (3), 4). 
MOTSP =̃ TP
|TP|
(3)  
MODSP = TP
|TP|
(4)  
2.3.2. YOLACT and Spatial Embeddings for berry detection 
The implementation of YOLACT was straightforward since it was 
declared in the config file that contained various configurations such as 
backbone network, iterations, batch size, and dataset path, among 
others. 
The COCO detection metrics used mAP (mean average precision) as 
its ultimate metric, to determine how precise an instance segmentation 
model could predict the masks compared to a ground truth annotation. 
The mAP was calculated using Precision and Recall (Eq. (5), 6, 7). 
Precision =
TP
TP + FP
(5)  
Recall =
TP
TP + FN
(6)  
AP = i
∑
Recalli
Precision(Recalli)
(7)  
where FN is the false negatives, which is the number of segments from 
the precision-recall curve. 
2.4. Phenotyping assessment 
The International Organization of Vine and Wine (OIV) has many 
standards for the vineyard ecosystem, which include the classification of 
grape bunches and berries for several purposes, such as phenotyping.. 
One of these standardsis a characteristic that defines phenotyping of 
bunches and berries and is represented with an OIV code (International 
Organisation of Vine and Wine, 2009). OIV numbers are useful for 
winegrowers to determine the intrinsic characteristics of their varieties. 
The OIV codes can represent quantitative or qualitative characteristics, 
such as the number of consecutive tendrils or the degree of resistance to 
a certain disease, respectively. 
In this study, several OIV characters were extracted from the iden­
tified bunches and berries. For bunches, the length, width, and shape of 
the bunch are defined as OIV codes 202, 203, and 208, respectively. For 
berries, the length, width, and shape are defined as OIV codes 220, 221, 
and 223, respectively. Fig. 4 visually indicates how OIV codes 202 and 
203 are measured in the bunch. The guidelines to measure the rest of the 
OIV characters can be found in the descriptor list of the OIV (Interna­
tional Organisation of Vine and Wine, 2009). 
The OIV establishes that to determine descriptors, 10 bunches, and 
30 berries should be considered and therefore, a total of ten bunches and 
thirty berries were considered to extract their respective OIV 
descriptors. 
To automatize the extraction of the OIV descriptors, the length, and 
width of the bunch were obtained using two methods. The first one 
consisted of cropping the image to the mask size and extracting the 
length and width of the image properties to convert them to OIV 202 and 
203 descriptors. However, this method considered that the bunch was 
oriented downwards, which was not the case in all bunches and also at 
an early stage of development since the weight of the bunch was still not 
sufficient to drive the bunch in a downwards position. Hence, a second 
method was considered. This second method consisted of identifying the 
largest distance within the mask and rotating the mask so that it had a 0- 
degree-angle to the vertical axis. Afterward, the width was detected as 
the second largest distance perpendicular to the previous one identified. 
To obtain the OIV descriptors of the berries, because of their spherical 
nature, the first method mentioned for the bunch was implemented. To 
validate, all metrics were compared to the ones visually assessed and 
measured in the video frames that were annotated, mentioned as 
Fig. 4. OIV codes 202 (bunch length) and 203 (bunch width).  
M. Ariza-Sentís et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 211 (2023) 108051
6
Ground Truth data in the rest of the document. 
The conversion from pixels to cm was done by information on the 
pole width of each video sequence. Since the flights were performed in 
manual mode, each sequence had a slightly different length from the 
grape bunches, the ratio of conversion was different for each video 
sequence. The poles from the vineyard had a fix width of 9 cm. Hence, a 
ratio for each sequence was defined in Eq. (8). 
Ratio cm
/
pixel = Pole width (cm)
Pole width (pixel)
(8) 
To assess the bunch shape, the OIV establishes that the focus should 
be located between the third and fourth and fifth of the bunch. To 
automatize it, the already downward-oriented mask was cropped into 
five pices and the third and fourth starting from the top were selected. 
Afterward, the ratio between the top and bottom width was used to 
classify the shape of each bunch (Fig. 5). If the ratio was below 1.1, it 
was classified as level 1, bigger than 1.3 was level 2. Lastly, between 1.1 
and 1.3 was considered level 3. 
Regarding the berry shape, a visual inspection was performed firstly 
to corroborate that all berries of the Loureiro variety were spherical. 
Because of that, they could only belong to levels 1 to 4. The ratio be­
tween the length and the width was calculated to categorize the berries. 
If the ratio was below 0.95 it was classified as level 1, between 0.95 and 
1.05 level 2, between 1.05 and 1.25 level 3 and finally, larger than 1.25 
was considered level 4. These values were selected to quantify the 
qualitative levels of the OIV regulations. 
Finally, a comparison between the number of the berries annotated 
inside each bunch and the amount of berries identified by both YOLACT 
and Spatial Embeddings was calculated to asses the feasibility of berry 
counting for each algorithm. 
2.5. Hardware 
A high-performance computer (HPC) was used to implement the 
models of PointTrack, YOLACT, and Spatial Embeddings. It was equip­
ped with two Nvidia RTX Titan GPUs with 24 GB of GDDR6 memory, 
running on Linux, Ubuntu 20.04.1 LTS. Furthermore, it was also 
equipped with 64 GB of memory and an Intel© Core™ i9-10940X CPU @ 
3.30 GHz × 28 to support the training and testing process of the 
algorithm. 
3. Results 
3.1. Bunch detection and tracking 
In total, five models were generated with PointTrack (Table 2). In 
addition to the crop instance, the number of epochs were changed in the 
PointTrack training. The training schemes are shown, with detail on 
how they were deployed. The last model shown in Table 2, “Box­
App128_200 + 1200”, was trained with transfer learning from the apple 
dataset used by de Jong et al. (2022). 
The results of the bunch tracking with the PointTrack algorithm are 
shown in Table 3. The tracking metrics have a negative value due to false 
positives and hence, for the goal of phenotyping with the masks, the 
detection metrics are given more emphasis than tracking metrics. Across 
the models, the results of detection are quite consistent, with a 66% 
performance. The model “Rec128_800 + 3200” performed the best in the 
MODSA metrics, achieving a 10% increase compared to the second best. 
The second-best model was also the model trained with rectangular 
shaped crop instance, “Rec64_600 + 1200”. The model trained with 
transfer learning from APPLE MOTS, “BoxApp128_200 + 1200”, was one 
of the worst-performing models, indicating transfer learning did not 
improve 
inference 
for 
grape 
bunch 
detection. 
Additionally, 
“Rec128_800 + 3200” also had the least amount of ID switches, meaning 
that tracking of that model worked better than the rest. 
This grape bunch dataset presented a real, but very challenging 
environment for object detection and tracking due to the severe sunny 
conditions, which are common in traditional vineyard regions, such as 
southern Europe. Fig. 6 presents the grape bunch prediction using the 
model “Rec128_800 + 3200”, the one with the highest MODSA metrics. 
The white rectangles indicate false positives in the form of leaves 
detected as bunches. As can be observed, it is also quite difficult for the 
human eye to distinguish between grape bunches and surrounding 
vegetation. Moreover, in the example provided in Fig. 6, there are 
multiple vine rows, complicating the algorithm’s detection of bunches in 
the closest row. 
3.2. Berry detection 
The detection results on the berries are displayed in Table 4. Four 
models were trained for berry detection. The first two, starting with 
“YO” were trained with YOLACT, whereas the remaining two (“SE”) 
were trained with Spatial Embeddings. The numbers provided after the 
model name indicate the total number of training epochs, which were 
80.000, 1.500 and 2.300, respectively. It can be observed that the 
required time to train the models varied significantly from YOLACT to 
Spatial Embeddings models. Because of resource limitations, YOLACT 
models were trained with lower batch sizes (2 and 8, respectively). 
Table 5 presents the mean average precision of all the models 
trained. The low metrics can be explained by the challenging environ­
ment that surrounds each berry (Fig. 7). The metrics shown in Table 5 
indicate that SE models outperform YOLACT. There is a lack of “Box” 
Fig. 5. Selection of the third and forth fifth of the grape bunch to obtain OIV 
208. The red arrows represent the top and bottom width to calculate the ratio 
and classify it within an OIV level. 
Table 2 
Configuration of the five models generated with PointTrack.  
No. 
Model Name 
Time 
(h) 
Epoch 
Sizes 
1 
Rec64_600 + 1200 
~ 33 
600SE +
1200FT 
64 × 128 → 128 ×
256 
2 
Rec128_800 + 3200 
~ 60 
800SE +
3200FT 
128 × 256 → 256 
× 512 
3 
Box80_800 + 2400 
~ 48 
800SE +
2400FT 
80 × 80 → 160 ×
160 
4 
Box160_1000 + 2400 
~ 55 
1000SE +
2400FT 
160 × 160 → 320 
× 320 
5 
BoxApp128_200 +
1200 
~ 26 
200SE +
1200FT 
128 × 128 → 256 
× 256  
M. Ariza-Sentís et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 211 (2023) 108051
7
evaluation metrics for Spatial Embeddings since the algorithm does not 
generate bounding boxes.. Comparing the two YOLACT models, it can be 
observed that the model led to lower mAP50 results due to the down­
sizing of the images. 
Fig. 7 depicts how the model “YO_80000_original“ detected berries 
from a full-size image (4096 × 2160). The predictions contained false 
positives, which are depicted with the dots sprinkled throughout the 
image. However, there were also high quality detections, which are 
depicted by the small bounding boxes around the grape bunches. The 
main challenge of berry detection was largely due to the size of the 
detections compared to the images. Each berry represented 4–12 pixels, 
compared to the 4096 × 2160 pixels of the full image. Overall, the model 
was able to correctly detect the berries in the bunch. However, there was 
a significant number of false detections, which lowered the model’s 
performance. 
Fig. 8 indicates the workflow that Spatial Embeddings conducted to 
determine the berry predictions. Spatial Embeddings was trained to 
detect grape bunches only in the lowest part of the canopy since it is the 
area in which bunches develop (Reynolds, 2015). There were false 
positives in the lowest part of the canopy because the algorithm pre­
dicted every pixel that had a similar seed map size as a berry. Since the 
environment was similar in color to the berries, and the berries had a 
small size compared to the whole image, there were parts of the image 
that were mistaken for berries. 
3.3. Grape bunch phenotyping 
A comparison of the bunches as seen in the video and the bunch mask 
as detected by the algorithm is provided in Fig. 9. The phenotyping traits 
of the shown bunches were automatically extracted, which are discussed 
in the rest of this section. It can be observed that for Bunch 3, two 
bunches were identified as one and hence, the phenotyping 
measurements obtained differed from the ground truth values. 
The algorithm is able to properly detect the grape bunches, thus, the 
next steps correspond to extracting phenotyping traits of each bunch, 
starting from a comparison between their predicted and labeled size, 
and followed by the obtention of OIV levels for each of them. Fig. 10 
shows the comparison between the ground truth measurements of each 
bunch dimensions (length, width, and shape) and the predicted mea­
surements obtained with the two methods already explained (mask size 
and rotating the mask). It can be observed that the latter methodology 
proposed had a higher correlation and lower RMSE (R2 = 0.62, RMSE =
32.5) compared to the method of extracting the phenotyping traits with 
the mask size (R2 = 0.47, RMSE = 37.7). 
Once it is identified that the second proposed methodology leads to 
better results in bunch size compared to ground truth values, the com­
parison between OIV levels is assessed. Since the mask-rotation meth­
odology obtained more accurate results than the first process, that 
method was considered in the rest of the study. A comparison table 
between the ground truth OIV category of each grape bunch and the 
predicted levels following the mask-rotation methodology is provided in 
Table 6, where every row represents each single bunch shown in Fig. 9. 
Table 3 
Results of grape bunch tracking and detection with PointTrack. The model with 
the highest metrics, “Rec128_800 + 3200”, is highlighted in bold.  
No. 
Model Name 
sMOTSA 
MOTSA 
MOTSP 
IDS 
MODSP 
1 
Rec64_600 + 1200  
−14.37  
−7.61  
65.18 
80  
81.60 
2 
Rec128_800 þ 3200  
¡9.51  
¡8.17  
66.58 
19  
93.85 
3 
Box80_800 + 2400  
−28.43  
−21.97  
63.47 
71  
82.54 
4 
Box160_1000 + 2400  
−75.78  
−66.42  
64.75 
129  
80.08 
5 
BoxApp128_200 +
1200  
−55.12  
−46.70  
65.11 
155  
79.92  
Fig. 6. Grape bunch predictions using the model Rec128_800 + 3200. The white rectangles indicate false positives.  
Table 4 
Configurations of the four models trained with YOLACT (models 1 and 2) and 
Spatial Embeddings (models 3 and 4). The YOLACT models are trained in two 
stages. The SE models are trained in three stages.  
No. 
Model Name 
Time (h) 
Batch size 
Epoch 
1 
YO_80000_original 
~ 672 (26 days) 
2 
~ 80,000 
2 
YO_80000_downsized 
~ 437 (18 days) 
8 
~ 80,000 
3 
SE_1500 
~ 40 
32 
400 + 600 + 500 
4 
SE_2300 
~ 80 
32 
600 + 900 + 800  
Table 5 
Berry detection metrics for both YOLACT and Spatial Embeddings models. In the 
case of Spatial Embeddings, bounding boxes are not available and hence, only 
mask evaluations are provided. The best model of YOLACT and Spatial Em­
beddings are highlighted in bold.  
No. 
Model Name 
mAP50    
Box 
Mask 
1 
YO_80000_original  
0.68  
0.41 
2 
YO_80000_downsized  
0.02  
0.01 
5 
SE20_1500   
1.82 
6 
SE20_2300   
2.42  
M. Ariza-Sentís et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 211 (2023) 108051
8
The GT values correspond to the number of berries that were annotated 
and hence counted inside each grape bunch. However, it is important to 
remark that only visible grapes, meaning that they are seen from a front 
view, were annotated. 
It can be observed that for most of the cases, the bunch dimensions 
were properly classified, meaning that both ground truth and prediction 
have the same OIV level, for instance, level 3 in both cases (3/3). OIV 
202 and OIV 203 have 5 levels (International Organisation of Vine and 
Fig. 7. YOLACT detection of berries. On the top left it is zoomed in with the predicted grape masks, and in the bottom left with ground truth masks.  
Fig. 8. Spatial Embeddings process to properly detect berries. On the right side, zoomed-in snapshots to better visualize each of the steps that take place in a bunch to 
detect the berries it contains. 
M. Ariza-Sentís et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 211 (2023) 108051
9
Wine, 2009) and hence, the legend is split into 5 categories to indicate 
the number of in-between misclassified levels (1 to 5). For the case of 
OIV 208, there are only 3 levels, and therefore, a misclassification of 1 
level was already penalized as if they had 2 misclassified levels, for 
instance being GT level 2 and the prediction category 3 (2/3) is shown in 
orange instead of light yellow. 
3.4. Berry phenotyping 
The individual berries within each of the ten grape bunches shown in 
Fig. 9 were manually annotated and the two instance segmentation al­
gorithms were used to identify and count the number of berries present 
per bunch. Table 7 provides a visual representation of the detected 
berries using YOLACT and Spatial Embeddings, along with the ground 
truth number of berries that were manually labelled. It can be observed 
that, in general, Spatial Embeddings provides a better estimation of the 
berries inside each bunch, and also a better reconstruction of the shape 
of the bunch filled with berries. Bunch 3 includes two bunches in the 
same instance and hence, it can be observed that the berry count is 
divided into the left and right bunches to provide a better comparison 
between models. To determine how accurate the models were compared 
to the ground truth counts, an estimation ratio was calculated. Spatial 
Embeddings is the most accurate model for berry detection. All berry 
counts were better estimated using Spatial Embeddings compared to 
YOLACT. Bunches 3 right, 4, and 8 had less than 5% deviation from the 
ground truth values. Nevertheless, the highest accuracy for YOLACT was 
on Bunch 7, with a 7% deviation from the annotated value. Spatial 
Embeddings proved to assess the berry counting more accurately 
(79.5%) than YOLACT (44.6%). It has been observed that Spatial Em­
beddings better predicts the amount of berries per bunch and hence, 
those predictions were used in the rest of the study. 
Once it is corroborated that the algorithm, especially Spatial Em­
beddings, can identify each individual berry from the detected bunches, 
several traits such as the length, width, and shape of each berry is 
extracted and compared with the ground truth values, which were 
manually counted in the image and then labelled. The correlation be­
tween the ground truth measurements of the number of berries and the 
predicted values is provided in Fig. 11. There is a high correlation (R2 =
0.85) and low RMSE of 0.65, indicating that the dimensions were 
accurately predicted. 
The OIV characteristics of each individual berry are provided in 
Table 8, which provides a comparison table between the ground truth 
OIV levels of the berries and the predicted levels. Each row represents an 
individual berry. In 84% of the cases, the OIV level predicted was the 
Fig. 9. Grape bunch video snapshots (first and third column) and bunch mask detections obtained with PointTrack (second and forth column).  
M. Ariza-Sentís et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 211 (2023) 108051
10
same as the ground truth level allocated. In the other 16% of the cases, 
there was only a 1- level difference between ground truth and pre­
dictions, for instance, both being classified as level 1 (1/1). Therefore, it 
can be concluded that Spatial Embeddings provides accurate predictions 
for berry OIV categorization. 
4. Discussion 
This study was successful in reaching its objectives: 1) to detect and 
track grape bunches using PointTrack and to detect berries within the 
identified bunches using two state-of-the-art instance segmentation al­
gorithms (YOLACT and Spatial Embeddings), and 2) to extract pheno­
typic characteristics of the bunches and berries. 
4.1. Object detection and tracking 
The tracking performance for bunches was insufficient using Point­
Track, a state-of-the-art MOTS algorithm. The tracking metrics were 
negative due to the switches in ID and/or false positives. The model used 
in the evaluation had a relatively low number of ID switches, which is 
comparable to the results of Xu et al. (2020), the original authors of 
PointTrack. Hence, the low metrics problem lies in the predicted false 
positives. Based on the review and findings of instance segmentation 
deep learning techniques by Hafiz & Bhat (2020), there are two reasons 
why this is the case: (1) the challenging environment, and (2) the large 
image size compared to the grape bunches. 
Concerning the first possibility, the results of this study differed from 
the findings of de Jong et al. (2022), who tested PointTrack on a dataset 
of apples on an orchard, which also had the datasets obtained from 
UAVs. One factor that is quite crucial in why the apple dataset is more 
accurate is due to the colour of the objects compared to its surrounding 
environment (Bullinger et al., 2017). Apples have a distinct red colour, 
moreover, the PointTrack network emphasizes a data modality that is 
based on differentiating the colour of the target object (Xu et al., 2020). 
On the other hand, the bunches in this dataset are green, with leaves that 
have a similar shade of green surrounding them. Many studies have 
brought up the importance of good visual features in distinguishing 
objects, which puts this as a primary importance for object detection, 
especially instance segmentation (Garcia-Garcia et al., 2018; Girshick 
et al., 2014; Zhu et al., 2012). This lack of colour distinction between the 
target object and the environment hindered the model from correctly 
detecting grape bunches, despite the many different strategies applied to 
Fig. 10. Correlation between the ground truth measurements of the grape bunch dimensions (length, width, and shape) and the predicted measurements using two 
methodologies (1-obtaining the phenotyping traits based on the mask size, and 2- rotating the mask to the largest length of the bunch and obtaining the dimensions 
after the rotation). 
Table 6 
Comparison table between the Ground Truth and the predicted OIV levels of each grape bunch. Each row represents one grape bunch, corresponding to Fig. 9. In green, 
the cells that were classified as the same level for GT and prediction. The scale informs about the difference in level between ground truth and prediction. In the case of 
OIV 208, because there are only 3 possible levels, a difference of 1 level is classified as 2 missed levels.  
M. Ariza-Sentís et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 211 (2023) 108051
11
Table 7 
Berry detection and count within each grape bunch. The second column indicates the number of berries that were manually annotated per bunch and the following two 
columns are the prediction of the number of berries per bunch using the two instance segmentation algorithms (YOLACT and Spatial Embeddings) along with the 
percentage of berry count accuracy.  
ID 
Ground Truth berry count 
YOLACT count and estimated amount 
Spatial Embeddings count and estimated amount 
Bunch 1 
33 
2 (6%)  
10 (30%)  
Bunch 2 
43 
35 (81%)  
47 (109%)  
Bunch 3 
Left: 68 
Right: 56 
Total: 124 
Left: 39 (57%) 
Right: 7 (13%) 
Total: 46  
Left: 79 (116%) 
Right: 58 (104%) 
Total: 135  
Bunch 4 
22 
10 (45%)  
23 (105%)  
Bunch 5 
45 
13 (29%)  
39 (87%)  
Bunch 6 
31 
11 (35%)  
21 (68%)  
(continued on next page) 
M. Ariza-Sentís et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 211 (2023) 108051
12
train the dataset. Most of the current studies implementing deep 
learning instance segmentation techniques for grape bunch and berry 
detection use red grape varieties (S. Liu & Whitty, 2015; Torres-S´anchez 
et al., 2021; Zhang et al., 2022), which eases the computer vision task of 
detecting objects based on color instead of shape. Moreover, many 
studies work with leaf removal, fully observing the shape of the bunches 
(Nuske et al., 2014; Rose et al., 2016; Santos et al., 2020; Shen et al., 
2023). Nevertheless, in this study, the grape variety is white, compli­
cating the detection of the bunches in such a homogeneous environ­
ment. It should be tested if the trained algorithms are capable of 
detecting grape bunches and berries in a less challenging environment 
and with red grape varieties. Nevertheless, red grapes are also green 
before veraison, so algorithms that work properly with white grapes are 
completely necessary for early assessment. Another strength of this 
study is that the hardware used were commercial-grade UAVs and 
camera, easing winemakers and farm managers to use these technolo­
gies to monitor the bunch growth along the season. Lastly, working with 
UAVs permits the analysis of a bigger area than with UGV within the 
same amount of time, which is relevant in big vineyards to reduce the 
time window from robot inspection to result extraction and decision- 
making. 
In this study, images are of great size compared to the target objects: 
bunches. As explained by Hafiz & Bhat (2020), training object inference 
in CNNs is still an issue, due to the inherent way the layers are trained. In 
fully convolutional networks, higher CNN layers have lower resolutions 
but more robustness in different illuminations and poses, and on the 
other hand, lower CNN layers have higher resolutions but are less sen­
sitive to semantic detail (Long et al., 2015). This approach of creating 
Table 7 (continued) 
ID 
Ground Truth berry count 
YOLACT count and estimated amount 
Spatial Embeddings count and estimated amount 
Bunch 7 
15 
14 (93%)  
16 (107%)  
Bunch 8 
21 
31 (148%)  
22 (105%)  
Bunch 9 
21 
9 (43%)  
11 (52%)  
Bunch 10 
46 
13 (28%)  
19 (41%)  
Fig. 11. Correlation between the ground truth measurements of the berry di­
mensions (length, width, and shape) and the predicted measurements. 
M. Ariza-Sentís et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 211 (2023) 108051
13
weights in inference directly affects the ability to train on smaller size 
objects. Due to the small object sizes, the resolution in lower CNN layers 
is smaller, which results to higher CNN layers having even smaller res­
olutions, leading to inferior robustness compared to inference with 
bigger objects. 
Regarding the berry detection metrics, it can be observed in Table 5 
that the mAP50 of Spatial Embeddings is 5.9 times higher than the 
YOLACT’s value. Spatial Embeddings is a proposal-free instance seg­
mentation model that employs a sigma function that could resize 
instance learning boundaries based on its value, whether it is large or 
small. As Neven et al. (2019) points out, they treat instance segmenta­
tion as a pixel assignment problem, a so-called context aware detector, 
which is done by learning a seed map that locates the objects centre to 
learn an optimal clustering region for each object. This is practically 
achieved through the training of crop instances. The instance crops let 
the model learn features of the instance and the surrounding back­
ground. However, this convention does not let Spatial Embeddingslearn 
the surrounding environment of the berries. Hence, the many false 
positives that come around the image is due to the model never being 
exposed to the background, which in small part defeats the purpose of 
the ‘context-aware’ detection system. This problem is not present for the 
training of other larger objects, i.e., cars, because cars are larger, and its 
surrounding environment is normally on an urban road. An argument 
could be made to increase the crop size, so more of the surrounding 
environment could be learned by the model. However, the training on 
smaller crops gave a better advantage in shorter training time. To further 
improve the berry detection, it would be relevant to experiment on 
training bigger crops, to try and reduce the occurrence of false positives. 
4.2. Grape bunch and berry phenotyping 
With respect to the berry count, Spatial Embeddings performed 
better than YOLACT, with an average count accuracy of 79.5 and 44.6%, 
respectively. YOLACT counts range from 0% to 148%, undercounting 
the berries in most of the bunches. Nevertheless, Spatial Embeddings’ 
range from 30% to 116%. It is observed in Table 7 that berries inside 
bunch number 7 are as well counted by YOLACT than SE, which is due to 
the bunch having very well-defined berries. In general, Spatial Embed­
dings could segment and detect the berries quite well, except in cases 
where the berries are totally located under the shade. When the bunch is 
shaded (Grape 9 and 10), the algorithms do not properly detect the 
whole bunch. However, when the bunch is partly shaded (Grape 5), the 
algorithm performs better in the detection of the berries within the 
whole bunch. It can be argued that the detected bunches that do not 
have visible berries to count are not valid bunches, since it is also 
difficult for a person to count them by looking at the image. However, 
those bunches were included to boost robustness of the algorithm. It is 
observed in Table 7 that the outer shape of the detections with Spatial 
Embeddings is more similar to a grape bunch shape than the detections 
of YOLACT, which have irregular shapes in each prediction. Even if the 
inside detections of Spatial Embeddings might be missing, having an 
accurate perimeter of the bunch allows for future possibilities such as 
object reconstruction, which has widely been applied in medical disci­
plines (Lin et al., 2021; Singh et al., 2020). 
It is important to point out that the counts of the berry only represent 
one side of the bunch that is visible. Hence, if the model has a 100% 
estimation accuracy, it is still an underestimation of the real berry 
counts. Nuske et al. (2011) addressed this issue of berry occlusion by 
explaining that occlusion is not a problem if there are few false positives, 
saying that the portion of visible berries could be used to represent the 
total number of berries from abunch. Notwithstanding, their further 
research (Nuske et al., 2014) stated that their method gave difficulty in 
associating berries with bunches, due to many grapes that have close 
adjacent bunches. 
Concerning the phenotypic traits extracted, the main method is by 
obtaining pixel counts of the bunch measurements and subsequently 
converting those numbers to centimetres. Several studies reported 
reasonable accuracy when phenotyping using pixel conversions to 
metric (Cabrera-Bosquet et al., 2016; Komyshev et al., 2017; Zhang 
et al., 2018). The videos taken from a UAV are stable, however, the 
distance taken from the rows could produce a small variation of angles 
between different rows. Since the vine poles in the images were taken at 
different angles, there is a possibility that the pixel measurements are 
also skewed, generating slight errors between the conversion of different 
rows. Seethepalli et al. (2020) describe that if the images the pixel 
conversions would have up until millimeter accuracy if it had at least 10 
pixels/millimetre, which is not the case for this study. Hence, a range of 
~ 3 cm deviation from the real measurements is expected. In future 
studies, this issue can be overcome by flying the UAV following a path 
that respects a constant distance to the target row to decrease this error. 
This study offered two methodologies to automatically extract OIV 
descriptor 202 (bunch length) and 203 (bunch width). The first meth­
odology consisted on extracting the length and width of the mask 
without considering the orientation of the bunch, with resulted in an R2 
of 0.47 compared to the GT dimensions. Nevertheless, the second 
methodology proposed, which involves calculating the maximum dis­
tance within the bunch mask and rotating the bunch to the vertical angle 
had a higher R2 value of 0.62. This second methodology does not need to 
extract the dimensions of other fruits, for instance, with apples and or­
anges, because of their spherical nature. Nonetheless, because of the 
non-spherical shape of grape bunches, this methodology was relevant to 
increase the accuracy of those two OIV descriptors. 
This study offers great potential for object detection and tracking for 
automatizing the extraction of bunch and berry OIV descriptors. There 
were two more OIV descriptors (OIV 204 – bunch density, and OIV 222 – 
Table 8 
Comparison table between the Ground Truth and the predicted OIV levels of 
berries. Each row includes the characteristics of an individual berry. In green, 
the cells that were classified as the same level for GT and prediction. The scale 
informs about the difference in level between ground truth and prediction. In the 
case of OIV 223, because there are only 3 possible levels, a difference of 1 level is 
classified as 2 missed levels.  
M. Ariza-Sentís et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 211 (2023) 108051
14
uniformity of berry size) that could have been obtained if there was a 
lower lack of berry detections. OIV 204 consists of defining 5 levels for 
bunch density (from very loose to very dense). With the amount of 
detected berries per bunch, the length and width of the berries and the 
bunch, some threshold can be stablished to define in which level should 
the bunch be classified. However, due to the missed berry detections, 
that OIV descriptor was not provided. Moreover, OIV 222 refers to the 
uniformity of the berry size and it has two levels: not uniform and 
uniform. With the results from OIV 223 (berry shape), it can be 
automatized that if the OIV 223′s level is the same for the majority of 
berries inside the bunch, the result is uniformity in berry size (level 2 of 
OIV 223). Otherwise, the bunch receives the level 1. Nevertheless, 
because of the missed detections, this OIV descriptor was also skipped. 
For future work, when the berry detection metrics are higher, these two 
OIV descriptors can be provided and automatized. 
4.3. Future recommendations 
Most of the current studies on object detection focus on the computer 
vision task itself. Nevertheless, the first important step before training 
the state-of-the-art algorithms is to actually acquire the datasets in the 
most efficient way focusing on the future purpose of the dataset. For 
instance, in the case of grape bunch and berry detection, the location of 
the bunches is crucial to properly plan the path to be followed by the 
UAV. The size and shape of the leaves, as well as the development of the 
bunches in vineyards, depends on their position along the stem since it is 
a function of the node in which it is positioned (Reynolds, 2015). Thus, 
bunches are always inserted in front of a leaf, up to the tenth bud po­
sition or even only up to the eighth, depending on the vine variety, due 
to various factors such as the inhibitory influence of the apical meristem 
(Keller, 2020, p. 2). However, since bunches are generated the year 
before harvest, pruning systems not only regulate vine fruitfulness but 
also regulate the position of bunches (Eltom et al., 2014), limiting their 
position to the lower part of the stem or canopy. In a context of com­
mercial vineyards on trellises, the bunches would be located in the 
bottom part of the canopy, most probably in the first bottom half or the 
first bottom third of vegetation. 
As observed in Fig. 6, there are videos which count with multiple 
vine rows, which complicates bunch detection and increases the ratio in 
size from the target object and the whole frame. Therefore, for future 
work, it would be important to focus on recording videos in which only 
one vine row is present, enhancing the recording of the bottom part of 
the vegetation. 
Some authors have already optimized path planning for general 
purposes (Balampanis et al., 2016, 2017; Raptis et al., 2023; Valente 
et al., 2013). However, they focus on nadir flights, which have some 
limitations in agricultural purposes such as disease monitoring and 
bunch detection. Hence, future work should focus on optimizing image 
and video acquisition for computer vision purposes. In that way, it 
would facilitate grape bunch and berry detection in the areas in which 
the likelihood of finding bunches and berries is higher. 
5. Conclusions 
The objective of this study was to obtain measurements of the phe­
notyping traits of grape bunches and berries within detected bunches at 
an early stage by applying instance segmentation models with RGB 
videos obtained with a UAV. This study was carried out in a commercial 
vineyard presenting leaf-occlusion. The homogeneous background - 
green berries over green vegetation wall - and the high sunny conditions 
are challenging factors for bunch and berry detection. The proposed 
workflow outputs the detected bunch and berry masks along with their 
dimensions measurements (length, width, and shape) and the Interna­
tional Organization of Vine and Wine (OIV) levels of those descriptors, 
which are important for early assessment of yield prediction. Moreover, 
an evaluation of the berry count compared to the Ground Truth 
measurements is provided. Spatial Embeddings proved to assess the 
berry counting more accurately (79.5%) than YOLACT (44.6%). This 
work is interesting for early vineyard assessment since red and white 
grape are very similar at early stages. For future work, it would be 
relevant to focus not only on the computer vision task but also on data 
acquisition to optimize its collection. The dataset containing the UAV 
RGB videos and the MOTS grape bunch annotations used in this study 
are available online to boost reproducibility and future work in the field. 
CRediT authorship contribution statement 
Mar Ariza-Sentís: Conceptualization, Methodology, Software, 
Validation, Formal analysis, Investigation, Resources, Data curation, 
Writing – original draft, Visualization, Visualization. Hilmy Baja: 
Conceptualization, Methodology, Software, Validation, Formal analysis, 
Investigation, Resources, Data curation, Writing – original draft, Visu­
alization. Sergio V´elez: Conceptualization, Methodology, Software, 
Validation, Formal analysis, Investigation, Resources, Data curation, 
Writing – review & editing, Visualization, Supervision. Jo˜ao Valente: 
Conceptualization, Methodology, Software, Validation, Formal analysis, 
Investigation, Resources, Data curation, Writing – review & editing, 
Visualization, Supervision, Project administration, Funding acquisition. 
Declaration of Competing Interest 
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial 
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence 
the work reported in this paper. 
Data availability 
The dataset is available in Data in Brief (mentioned in the 
manuscript). 
Acknowledgements 
This work has been carried out in the scope of the H2020 Flexi­
GroBots project, which has been funded by the European Commission in 
the scope of its H2020 programme (contract number 101017111, 
https://flexigrobots-h2020.eu/). The authors acknowledge valuable 
help and contributions from ’Bodegas Terras Gauda, S.A.’ and all part­
ners of the project. 
References 
Apolo-Apolo, O.E., Martínez-Guanter, J., Egea, G., Raja, P., P´erez-Ruiz, M., 2020. Deep 
learning techniques for estimation of the yield and size of citrus fruits using a UAV. 
Eur. J. Agron. 115, 126030 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eja.2020.126030. 
Ariza-Sentís, M., V´elez, S., Baja, H., Valente, J., 2022. International Plant Phenotyping 
Symposium 2022 Conference Book. 231. https://www.plant-phenotyping.org/lw_ 
resource/datapool/systemfiles/elements/files/e1ab35a9-3eae-11ed-9086- 
dead53a91d31/current/document/Conference_Book_IPPS_2022_DRUKKER.pdf. 
Ariza-Sentís, M., V´elez, S., Valente, J., 2023. Dataset on UAV RGB videos acquired over a 
vineyard including bunch labels for object detection and tracking. Data Brief 46, 
108848. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dib.2022.108848. 
Balampanis, F., Maza, I., Ollero, A., 2016. Area decomposition, partition and coverage 
with multiple remotely piloted aircraft systems operating in coastal regions. 
International Conference on Unmanned Aircraft Systems (ICUAS) 2016, 275–283. 
https://doi.org/10.1109/ICUAS.2016.7502602. 
Balampanis, F., Maza, I., Ollero, A., 2017. Coastal areas division and coverage with 
multiple UAVs for remote sensing. Sensors 17 (4), Article 4. https://doi.org/ 
10.3390/s17040808. 
Bargoti, S., Underwood, J., 2017. Deep fruit detection in orchards. IEEE International 
Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA) 2017, 3626–3633. https://doi.org/ 
10.1109/ICRA.2017.7989417. 
Bullinger, S., Bodensteiner, C., Arens, M., 2017. Instance Flow Based Online Multiple 
Object Tracking. 
Cabrera-Bosquet, L., Fournier, C., Brichet, N., Welcker, C., Suard, B., Tardieu, F., 2016. 
High-throughput estimation of incident light, light interception and radiation-use 
efficiency of thousands of plants in a phenotyping platform. New Phytol. 212 (1), 
269–281. https://doi.org/10.1111/nph.14027. 
M. Ariza-Sentís et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 211 (2023) 108051
15
CVAT.ai Corporation, 2022. Computer Vision Annotation Tool (CVAT) (2.2.0). https:// 
github.com/opencv/cvat. 
de Jong, S., Baja, H., Tamminga, K., Valente, J., 2022. APPLE MOTS: detection, 
segmentation and tracking of homogeneous objects using MOTS. IEEE Rob. Autom. 
Lett. 7 (4), 11418–11425. https://doi.org/10.1109/LRA.2022.3199026. 
Eltom, M., Winefield, C.s., Trought, M.c.t., 2014. Effect of pruning system, cane size and 
season on inflorescence primordia initiation and inflorescence architecture of Vitis 
vinifera L. Sauvignon Blanc. Aust. J. Grape Wine Res. 20 (3), 459–464. https://doi. 
org/10.1111/ajgw.12097. 
Fraga, H., Malheiro, A.C., Moutinho-Pereira, J., Santos, J.A., 2012. An overview of 
climate change impacts on European viticulture. Food Energy Secur. 1 (2), 94–110. 
https://doi.org/10.1002/fes3.14. 
Garcia-Garcia, A., Orts-Escolano, S., Oprea, S., Villena-Martinez, V., Martinez- 
Gonzalez, P., Garcia-Rodriguez, J., 2018. A survey on deep learning techniques for 
image and video semantic segmentation. Appl. Soft Comput. 70, 41–65. https://doi. 
org/10.1016/j.asoc.2018.05.018. 
Girshick, R., Donahue, J., Darrell, T., Malik, J., 2014. Rich feature hierarchies for 
accurate object detection and semantic segmentation. In: Proceedings of the IEEE 
Computer Society Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 
580–587. https://doi.org/10.1109/CVPR.2014.81. 
Hafiz, A.M., Bhat, G.M., 2020. A survey on instance segmentation: State of the art. Int. J. 
Multimedia Inform. Retrieval 9 (3), 171–189. https://doi.org/10.1007/s13735-020- 
00195-x. 
Horn, B.K.P., Schunck, B.G., 1981. Determining optical flow. Artif. Intell. 17 (1), 
185–203. https://doi.org/10.1016/0004-3702(81)90024-2. 
International Organisation of Vine and Wine. (2021). State of the World Vitiviniculture 
Sector in 2020. 
International Organisation of Vine and Wine, 2009. OIV Descriptor List for Grape 
Varieties and Vitis Species (2nd ed.). 
Jia, W., Tian, Y., Luo, R., Zhang, Z., Lian, J., Zheng, Y., 2020. Detection and 
segmentation of overlapped fruits based on optimized mask R-CNN application in 
apple harvesting robot. Comput. Electron. Agric. 172 https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
compag.2020.105380. 
Jiang, Y., Li, C., Paterson, A.H., Robertson, J.S., 2019. DeepSeedling: Deep convolutional 
network and Kalman filter for plant seedling detection and counting in the field. 
Plant Methods 15 (1), 141. https://doi.org/10.1186/s13007-019-0528-3. 
Kalman, R.E., 1960. A new approach to linear filtering and prediction problems. J. Basic 
Eng. 82 (1), 35–45. https://doi.org/10.1115/1.3662552. 
Keller, M., 2020. The Science of Grapevines, 3rd ed. Academic Press. 
Kingma, D.P., Ba, J., 2017. Adam: A Method for Stochastic Optimization (arXiv: 
1412.6980). arXiv. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1412.6980. 
Komyshev, E., Genaev, M., Afonnikov, D., 2017. Evaluation of the seedcounter, a mobile 
application for grain phenotyping. Front. Plant Sci. 7. https://www.frontiersin. 
org/articles/10.3389/fpls.2016.01990. 
Leal-Taix´e, L., Milan, A., Reid, I., Roth, S., Schindler, K., 2015. MOTChallenge 2015: 
Towards a Benchmark for Multi-Target Tracking (arXiv:1504.01942). arXiv. https:// 
doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1504.01942. 
Li, Y., Feng, Q., Liu, C., Xiong, Z., Sun, Y., Xie, F., Li, T., Zhao, C., 2023. MTA-YOLACT: 
Multitask-aware network on fruit bunch identification for cherry tomato robotic 
harvesting. Eur. J. Agron. 146, 126812 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eja.2023.126812. 
Lin, D.J., Johnson, P.M., Knoll, F., Lui, Y.W., 2021. Artificial intelligence for MR image 
reconstruction: an overview for clinicians. J. Magn. Reson. Imaging 53 (4), 
1015–1028. https://doi.org/10.1002/jmri.27078. 
Liu, X., Chen, S. W., Aditya, S., Sivakumar, N., Dcunha, S., Qu, C., Taylor, C. J., Das, J., 
Kumar, V., 2018. Robust Fruit Counting: Combining Deep Learning, Tracking, and 
Structure from Motion (arXiv:1804.00307). arXiv. https://doi.org/10.48550/ 
arXiv.1804.00307. 
Liu, S., Whitty, M., 2015. Automatic grape bunch detection in vineyards with an SVM 
classifier. J. Appl. Log. 13 (4, Part 3), 643–653. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
jal.2015.06.001. 
Long, J., Shelhamer, E., Darrell, T., 2015. Fully Convolutional Networks for Semantic 
Segmentation (arXiv:1411.4038). arXiv. https://doi.org/10.48550/ 
arXiv.1411.4038. 
Loy, G., Zelinsky, A., 2003. Fast radial symmetry for detecting points of interest. IEEE 
Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell. 25 (8), 959–973. https://doi.org/10.1109/ 
TPAMI.2003.1217601. 
Matese, A., Di Gennaro, S.F., 2015. Technology in precision viticulture: a state of the art 
review. Int. J. Wine Res. 69 https://doi.org/10.2147/IJWR.S69405. 
Milella, A., Marani, R., Petitti, A., Reina, G., 2019. In-field high throughput grapevine 
phenotyping with a consumer-grade depth camera. Comput. Electron. Agric. 156, 
293–306. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2018.11.026. 
Neuhold, G., Ollmann, T., Bul`o, S.R., Kontschieder, P., 2017. The mapillary vistas dataset 
for semantic understanding of street scenes. IEEE International Conference on 
Computer Vision (ICCV) 2017, 5000–5009. https://doi.org/10.1109/ 
ICCV.2017.534. 
Neven, D., De Brabandere, B., Proesmans, M., Van Gool, L., 2019. Instance Segmentation 
by Jointly Optimizing Spatial Embeddings and Clustering Bandwidth (arXiv: 
1906.11109). arXiv. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1906.11109. 
Nguyen, A., Le, B., 2013. 3D Point Cloud Segmentation: A survey. In: 6th IEEE 
Conference on Robotics, Automation and Mechatronics (RAM), 225–230. 
Nuske, S., Achar, S., Bates, T., Narasimhan, S., & Singh, S. (2011). Yield estimation in 
vineyards by visual grape detection. 2352–2358. https://doi.org/10.1109/ 
IROS.2011.6095069. 
Nuske, S., Wilshusen, K., Achar, S., Yoder, L., Narasimhan, S., Singh, S., 2014. Automated 
visual yield estimation in vineyards. J. Field Rob. 31 (5), 837–860. https://doi.org/ 
10.1002/rob.21541. 
Qi, L., Jiang, L., Liu, S., Shen, X., Jia, J., 2019. Amodal Instance Segmentation With KINS 
Dataset. 3014–3023. https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_CVPR_2019/html/Qi_ 
Amodal_Instance_Segmentation_With_KINS_Dataset_CVPR_2019_paper.html. 
Qiao, S., Zhu, Y., Adam, H., Yuille, A., Chen, L.-C., 2020. ViP-DeepLab: Learning Visual 
Perception with Depth-aware Video Panoptic Segmentation (arXiv:2012.05258). 
arXiv. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2012.05258. 
Rahaman, M.M., Chen, D., Gillani, Z., Klukas, C., Chen, M., 2015. Advanced phenotyping 
and phenotype data analysis for the study of plant growth and development. Front. 
Plant Sci. 6. https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fpls.2015.00619. 
Raptis, E.K., Krestenitis, M., Egglezos, K., Kypris, O., Ioannidis, K., Doitsidis, L., 
Kapoutsis, A.C., Vrochidis, S., Kompatsiaris, I., Kosmatopoulos, E.B., 2023. End-to- 
end precision agriculture UAV-based functionalities tailored to field characteristics. 
J. Intell. Rob. Syst. 107 (2), 23. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10846-022-01761-7. 
Rejeb, A., Abdollahi, A., Rejeb, K., Treiblmaier, H., 2022. Drones in agriculture: a review 
and bibliometric analysis. Comput. Electron. Agric. 198, 107017 https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.compag.2022.107017. 
Reynolds, A.G., 2015. Grapevine breeding programs for the wine industry: Traditional 
and molecular techniques, 1st ed. Woodhead Publishing. 
Rist, F., Gabriel, D., Mack, J., Steinhage, V., T¨opfer, R., Herzog, K., 2019. Combination of 
an automated 3D field phenotyping workflow and predictive modelling for high- 
throughput and non-invasive phenotyping of grape bunches. Remote Sens. (Basel) 11 
(24), Article 24. https://doi.org/10.3390/rs11242953. 
Rose, J.C., Kicherer, A., Wieland, M., Klingbeil, L., T¨opfer, R., Kuhlmann, H., 2016. 
Towards automated large-scale 3D phenotyping of vineyards under field conditions. 
Sensors 16. https://doi.org/10.3390/s16122136. 
Santos, T.T., de Souza, L.L., dos Santos, A.A., Avila, S., 2020. Grape detection, 
segmentation and tracking using deep neural networks and three-dimensional 
association. Comput. Electron. Agric. 170, 105247 https://doi.org/10.1016/J. 
COMPAG.2020.105247. 
Seethepalli, A., Guo, H., Liu, X., Griffiths, M., Almtarfi, H., Li, Z., Liu, S., Zare, A., 
Fritschi, F. B., Blancaflor, E. B., Ma, X.-F., York, L. M., 2020. RhizoVision crown: an 
integrated hardware and software platform for root crown phenotyping. Plant 
Phenomics, 2020. https://doi.org/10.34133/2020/3074916. 
Shen, L., Su, J., He, R., Song, L., Huang, R., Fang, Y., Song, Y., Su, B., 2023. Real-time 
tracking and counting of grape clusters in the field based on channel pruning with 
YOLOv5s. Comput. Electron. Agric. 206, 107662 https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
compag.2023.107662. 
Simonyan, K., Zisserman, A., 2014. Very deep convolutional networks for large-scale 
image recognition. 3rd International Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR 
2015 - Conference Track Proceedings, 1–14. 
Singh, R., Wu, W., Wang, G., Kalra, M.K., 2020. Artificial intelligence in image 
reconstruction: the change is here. Phys. Med. 79, 113–125. https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.ejmp.2020.11.012. 
Stein, M., Bargoti, S., Underwood, J., 2016. Image based mango fruit detection, 
localisation and yield estimation using multiple view geometry. Sensors, 16(11), 
Article 11. https://doi.org/10.3390/s16111915. 
Tian, Y., Yang, G., Wang, Z., Wang, H., Li, E., Liang, Z., 2019. Apple detection during 
different growth stages in orchards using the improved YOLO-V3 model. Comput. 
Electron. Agric. 157, 417–426. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2019.01.012. 
Torres-S´anchez, J., Mesas-Carrascosa, F.J., Santesteban, L.-G., Jim´enez-Brenes, F.M., 
Oneka, O., Villa-Llop, A., Loidi, M., L´opez-Granados, F., 2021. Grape cluster 
detection using UAV photogrammetric point clouds as a low-cost tool for yield 
forecasting in vineyards. Sensors 21 (9), Article 9. https://doi.org/10.3390/ 
s21093083. 
Torrey, L., Shavlik, J., 2010. Transfer Learning. In Handbook of Research on Machine 
Learning Applications and Trends: Algorithms, Methods, and Techniques (transfer- 
learning; pp. 242–264). IGI Global. 
Tsouros, D.C., Bibi, S., Sarigiannidis, P.G., 2019. A review on UAV-based applications for 
precision agriculture. Information, 10(11), Article 11. https://doi.org/10.3390/ 
info10110349. 
Valente, J., Del Cerro, J., Barrientos, A., Sanz, D., 2013. Aerial coverage optimization in 
precision agriculture management: A musical harmony inspired approach. Comput. 
Electron. Agric. 99, 153–159. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2013.09.008. 
Voigtlaender, P., Krause, M., Osep, A., Luiten, J., Sekar, B.B.G., Geiger, A., Leibe, B., 
2019. MOTS: multi-object tracking and segmentation. IEEE/CVF Conference on 
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) 2019, 7934–7943. https://doi. 
org/10.1109/CVPR.2019.00813. 
Wang, Z., Walsh, K., Koirala, A., 2019. Mango fruit load estimation using a video based 
mangoYOLO—kalman filter—hungarian algorithm method. Sensors, 19(12), Article 
12. https://doi.org/10.3390/s19122742. 
Xu, Z., Zhang, W., Tan, X., Yang, W., Huang, H., Wen, S., Ding, E., Huang, L., 2020. 
Segment as points for efficient online multi-object tracking and segmentation. In: 
Vedaldi, A., Bischof, H., Brox, T., Frahm, J.-M. (Eds.), Computer Vision – ECCV 2020 
(pp. 264–281). Springer International Publishing. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3- 
030-58452-8_16. 
Yang, L., Fan, Y., Xu, N., 2019. Video Instance Segmentation. Proceedings of the IEEE/ 
CVF International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV), 5188–5197. 
Yang, F., Chang, X., Dang, C., Zheng, Z., Sakti, S., Nakamura, S., Wu, Y., 2021. ReMOTS: 
Self-Supervised Refining Multi-Object Tracking and Segmentation (arXiv: 
2007.03200). arXiv. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2007.03200. 
M. Ariza-Sentís et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 211 (2023) 108051
16
Zhang, C., Si, Y., Lamkey, J., Boydston, R.A., Garland-Campbell, K.A., Sankaran, S., 
2018. High-Throughput phenotyping of seed/seedling evaluation using digital image 
analysis. Agronomy 8. https://doi.org/10.3390/agronomy8050063. 
Zhang, C., Ding, H., Shi, Q., Wang, Y., 2022. Grape cluster real-time detection in complex 
natural scenes based on YOLOv5s deep learning network. Agriculture 12 (8). https:// 
doi.org/10.3390/agriculture12081242. Article 8.  
Zhu, X., Vondrick, C., Ramanan, D., Fowlkes, C. (2012). Do we need more training data 
or better models for object detection? Procedings of the British Machine Vision 
Conference 2012, 80.1-80.11. https://doi.org/10.5244/C.26.80. 
M. Ariza-Sentís et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
