An EKF-based Multi-Object Tracking Framework for a Mobile Robot in a
Precision Agriculture Scenario
Andrea Arlotta,
Martina Lippi,
Andrea Gasparri
Abstract— Many robotic applications require the ability to
locate multiple objects in the environment, but the use of instant-
by-instant identification techniques may be unreliable in variable
and poorly structured contexts, such as for the majority of
precision agriculture settings. Inspired by the needs of the H2020
CANOPIES projects, where robotic platforms are required to
perform harvesting operations in table-grape vineyards, in this
paper, we propose a framework for tracking objects of interest
over time using a mobile robotic platform equipped with RGB-D
camera. Specifically, we design a multi-object tracking module
based on an Extended Kalman Filter (EKF) which takes into
account the motion of the robot to update the estimate of the
localization of the objects. We validate the approach in a realistic
Unity-based simulator, where a mobile robot is tasked with
tracking table-grape bunches within a vineyard environment.
Additionally, we conduct preliminary tests in a laboratory setup.
I. INTRODUCTION
In many robotic applications, the ability to locate objects
within the environment is a fundamental skill that enables
various tasks such as monitoring and performing operations on
such objects [1]–[3]. For instance, in autonomous vehicles, the
ability to identify and localize other vehicles, pedestrians, and
obstacles is crucial for safe navigation and collision avoidance.
However, several application scenarios, such as in agricultural
settings, are often characterized by complex,dynamical, and
poorly structured environments, which can pose significant
challenges for object detection algorithms, thus resulting in
inadequate or unreliable performances. For example, occlu-
sions, changes in lighting conditions, and other environmental
factors can hinder the accuracy of object detection algorithms,
leading to incorrect or incomplete identification of objects.
To overcome these challenges, multi-object tracking sys-
tems can be realized [4]. These techniques allow updating
the estimate of the objects’ location, even when they are
temporarily occluded or move out of view. The classical
approach for multi-object tracking systems relies on the use
of cameras and tracking-by-detection paradigm [5], where an
object detector is usually employed to detect the objects of
interest and then a tracker is used to estimate their trajectories
over time. One of the seminal works in this regard is [6] which
relies on a multiple hypothesis tracking (MHT) approach.
Specifically, this is based on creating multiple hypotheses for
the identity and trajectory of each target, and then updating
these hypotheses as new observations become available.
A. Arlotta, M. Lippi, and A. Gasparri are with the Department of Civil,
Computer Science and Aeronautical Technologies Engineering, Roma Tre
University, Italy, 00146 e-mail: andrea.arlotta,martina.lippi@uniroma3.it,
gasparri@inf.uniroma3.it.
This work was supported by the European Commission under the grant
agreement number 101016906 – Project CANOPIES.
Fig. 1: Representation of the case study within a precision agriculture
context: the simulated vineyard with the robot (left), the RGB image
as seen from the robot (top right) and the point cloud obtained from
the robot RGB-D camera (bottom right) are reported.
The algorithm uses a Bayesian probabilistic framework to
calculate the likelihood of each hypothesis given the current
observations and previous hypotheses. Further examples of
tracking-by-detection methods include SORT (Simple Online
and Realtime Tracking) [7], DeepSORT [8], and IOU Tracker
[9]. Regarding the object detector, many popular approaches
can be used for tracking-by-detection, such as Fast Region-
based Convolutional Neural Network (R-CNN) [10] or Faster
R-CNN [11] as dual-stage detectors, and You Only Look Once
(YOLO) [12] or Single Shot Multibox Detector (SSD) [13]
as single stage detectors. More recently, another category of
methods for multi-object tracking is emerging which is based
on the tracking-by-regression paradigm, where the object’s
state is directly regressed from the image data. Examples
of direct regression methods include the recent CenterTrack
[14] and FairMOT [15]. However, these methods usually
require large amounts of labeled training data and can be
computationally expensive.
Despite the impressive results of recent methods for object
detection and localization, they mainly rely on computer
vision techniques and do not model the fact that the camera
may be mounted on a mobile robot, whose motion should
be taken into account for tracking. In this work, we design
a tracking-by-detection framework for multi-object tracking
using a mobile robot equipped with an RGB-D camera. Our
framework employs an Extended Kalman Filter (EKF) for
each tracked object, which is updated with velocity commands
from the robot and instantaneous measurements. Given a
detection module based on RGB-D data, we measure the
relative positioning of the detected objects with respect to
the robot. This instantaneous data is then processed through
a data association procedure, which determines whether each
measurement is associated with a tracked object or a new
979-8-3503-0704-7/23/$31.00 ©2023 IEEE
2023 European Conference on Mobile Robots (ECMR) | 979-8-3503-0704-7/23/$31.00 ©2023 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/ECMR59166.2023.10256338
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:44:29 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

one. Finally, the EKFs are updated using the respective
measurements and the robot’s velocity. This allows to address
potential inaccuracies in the detection process due to, for
instance, noise or occlusions. We validate the approach in a
precision agriculture context, as shown in Figure 1, where
the robot is deployed into a simulated realistic vineyard
and tasked with locating bunches. Furthermore, we perform
preliminary evaluations in a laboratory environment. The
framework proposed in this work is a crucial step toward
developing an autonomous mobile robot, with manipulation
capabilities, for harvesting applications. By accurately detect-
ing and tracking multiple objects, the robot can effectively
execute trajectories to harvest ripe fruits, even in situations
where they may be temporarily occluded by leaves or other
fruits, or are outside the camera’s field of view.
II. PRELIMINARIES
A. State and observation models
Let us consider a frame Σr attached to the mobile robot.
We denote the frame where a variable is computed using the
subscript index. If no frame is explicitly specified, we assume
that the reference frame is Σr. Based on the requirements
of the precision farming application of the H2020 project
CANOPIES, which involves the detection of grape bunches
to improve harvesting applications, we make the assumption
that the objects of interest are static while the robot navigates
within the environment. We denote the state of an object o
by the vector po = [px,o, py,o, pz,o]T ∈R3, which represents
the object’s position with respect to the robot frame. Thus, po
denotes the location of the object o with respect to the robot.
The evolution of the state variables over time is governed by
nonlinear equations, which can be written as follows:
po,k = f(po,k−1, uk−1) + wo,k−1,
(1)
where po,k is the state of the object at time step k, uk−1 ∈Rm
is the robot control input at time step k −1, f represents
the state dynamics function relating the current state to the
previous state and the control input, and wo,k−1 ∈R3 is the
process noise at time step k −1. The latter is modeled as a
zero-mean Gaussian process with covariance Qo,k−1 ∈R3×3.
We assume to have noisy measurements of the object state. In
detail, let zo,k ∈R3 be the measurement vector of the object
o at time k. The following observation model is considered:
zo,k = h(po,k) + vo,k,
(2)
where h(·) is a nonlinear function that maps the state variables
to the measurements, and vo,k ∈R3 is a zero-mean Gaussian
measurement noise with covariance Ro,k ∈R3×3. The
specific state dynamics f(·) and observation model h(·)
functions will be elaborated in the following sections with
regard to the considered case study.
B. Extended Kalman Filter
The Extended Kalman Filter (EKF) is a Bayesian filter
commonly used for state estimation of systems with nonlinear
dynamics and measurement models [16]. Briefly, it relies on
linearizing the nonlinear dynamics around the current state
estimate and then propagating the state estimate forward in
time using a recursive process. Two phases are recursively
executed: 1) Predict, where the current state estimate and
system dynamics in (1) are exploited to predict the next
state estimate; 2) Update, where new measurements and the
observation model in (2) are exploited to improve the state
estimate. In detail, let ˆxo,k be the object state estimate at time
k, and Po,k ∈R3×3 the error covariance matrix associated
with the state estimate. The prediction equations are
ˆx−
o,k = f(ˆx−
o,k−1, uk−1)
P −
o,k = Fo,k−1Po,k−1F T
o,k−1 + Qo,k−1,
(3)
where ˆx−
o,k represents the predicted state estimate at time k,
Po,k
−is the predicted error covariance matrix, and Fo,k−1
is the Jacobian matrix of the state model evaluated at ˆxo,k−1.
The update equations are
Ko,k = P −
o,kHT
o,k

Ho,kP −
o,kHT
o,k + Ro,k
−1
ˆxk = ˆx−
o,k + Ko,k

zo,k −h(ˆx−
o,k)

Po,k = (I3 −Ko,kHo,k) P −
o,k
(4)
where Ho,k is the Jacobian matrix of the observation function
evaluated at ˆx−
o,k, Ko,k is the Kalman gain and I3 is the 3×3
identity matrix.
C. Point cloud from RGB-D camera
RGB-D cameras are sensors that provide both color (RGB)
and depth (D) information about a scene. This information
can be used to generate a 3D point cloud, which represents
the spatial locations of points in the scene. Each point in the
point cloud corresponds to a pixel in the RGB image, and
its position in 3D space is determined by the depth value
at that pixel. More in detail, let Σc be the camera frame,
f = [fx, fy]T be the camera focal length, c = [cx, cy]T be
the principal point and sd be the the depth scale factor. We
consider a generic pixel i with coordinates [ui, vi]T and depth
value di. The respective 3D point pc
i = [xc
i, yc
i , zc
i ]T in the
camera frame is computed as follows:


xc
i
yc
i
zc
i

= di sd


1
fx
0
−cx
fx
0
1
fy
−cy
fy
0
0
1




ui
vi
1

.
(5)
The overall camera point cloud Pc is then formed by
collecting all such pc
i points associated with pixels having
non-zero depth value di.
D. Problem statement
Based on the above quantities, we are now ready to state the
main problem that we address in this work. Let us consider
a mobile robot, with frame Σr, which is equipped with
an RGB-D camera, with frame Σc and let T r
c
∈R4×4
be the homogeneous matrix of the camera frame with
respect to the robot one. Let us consider that the robot
navigates in an environment where n objects of interest are
present, e.g., bunches in a table-grape vineyard. We aim to
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:44:29 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Fig. 2: Examples of occlusions in a table-grape vineyard. On the left
leaves occlude a bunch, on the right a black grape bunch occludes
a white grape bunch behind.
develop a real-time framework for reliably estimating po,k
∀o ∈{1, ..., n}, which represent the location of objects with
respect to the robot frame, even when object measurements
are intermittent or affected by outliers. We reiterate that such
measurement inaccuracies are very frequent in unstructured
outdoor environments, such as in precision agriculture settings.
Figure 2 illustrates examples of occlusions in a table-grape
vineyard. In the first scenario (left), a grape bunch (highlighted
in a rectangle) is occluded by leaves. In the second scenario
(right), a white grape bunch (highlighted in a rectangle) is
occluded by a black grape bunch.
III. PROPOSED FRAMEWORK
Fig. 3: Architecture overview.
The proposed framework to solve the above problem
is represented in Figure 3 and structured into four main
modules: i) raw data acquisition, ii) object detection and
relative measurement computation, iii) data association, and
iv) EKF for relative multi-object localization tracking. In the
remainder of the paper, we omit the time dependency if not
strictly necessary to simplify the notation. In the following,
a description of each module is provided.
1) Raw data acquisition: This preliminary module, as
illustrated by the first block on the left in Figure 3, gathers at
each time step all the necessary data for multi-object tracking
on the mobile robot. Specifically, encoder measurements are
collected, which allow deriving the robot control input uk
in (3). This control input typically comprises the linear and
angular velocities of the robot, as well as color and depth
data from the RGB-D camera mounted on the robot.
2) Object detection and relative measurement computation:
This module, shown in the second block from the left in
Figure 3, is in charge of detecting the objects that are in the
robot field of view at each time step k and providing the
relative measurement vector zo,k for each detected object o.
Regarding the object detector, we consider that any off-
the-shelf object detector can be employed. For instance, in
our prior works for precision agriculture settings such as
[2], [3], [17], we employed the YOLO architecture, while,
for the H2020 CANOPIES project, a grape cluster detection
module was developed in [18] that is available for use. The
detector produces two primary outputs: bounding boxes that
enclose the objects of interest and a segmentation mask that
identifies, for each detected object, the associated pixels.
These outputs are leveraged to extract measurements for each
object, which are then utilized for tracking purposes. As
measurement function, we use
h(po,k) = po,k,
(6)
i.e., we measure the entire tracking vector. Measurements are
obtained as follows. For each detected object o, the respective
portion of the segmentation mask is used to obtain a masked
depth map, such that zero values are assigned to the pixels
not belonging to the object, while depth values are preserved
for the object pixels. Let Io be the set of pixel indices with
non-zero values in the masked depth map. The object point
cloud Pc
o is generated by applying (5) for the pixels in Io.
At this point, to retrieve the measurement vector zc
o,k in the
camera frame, we select the pixel [uo, vo]T at the center
of the top edge of the bounding box that surrounds the
object and approximate its depth value as ¯do =
1
|Io|
P
i∈Io di,
where |Io| denotes the cardinality of Io. Then, the object
measurement zc
o is obtained by using uo, vo, and ¯do in (5).
Note that the choice of the center of the top edge of the
bounding box is arbitrary and other choices might be made
depending on the task at hand. For instance, the center of the
bounding box might be used. In our case study, the ultimate
goal is to enable a robotic hand to execute harvesting, and
this choice of bunch position allows us to more likely locate
and target the bunch peduncle, that is the desired cutting
point for the robotic hand. Additionally, we use the average
depth value ¯do instead of the value do to calculate the object
position because depth maps can be noisy, and the value do
could even be zero. By utilizing this preprocessing step, we
enhance the robustness of the system, and as we approach
closer to the object of interest, more accurate perception data
can be expected. As a final step, a coordinate transformation
is applied to retrieve the object measurement zr
o in the robot
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:44:29 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

frame. Specifically, it holds
"
zr
o
1
#
= T r
c
"
zc
o
1
#
,
where T r
c is the homogeneous matrix of the camera frame
with respect to the robot one as stated in Section II-D. The
measurements zr
o obtained for all the objects detected at time
step k are collected in the set of current measurements Mk.
3) Data association: This module associates measurements
with specific tracked objects in the environment. More in
detail, given the set of tracked objects up to time k Tk,
collecting the states of the tracked objects, and the set of
current measurements Mk, it enables us to establish whether
the measurements are associated with any tracked object and
if so, the specific corresponding one. To this aim, we compute
a likelihood matrix Lk ∈R|Mk|×|Tk|, where each element
lij represents the Euclidean distance between measurement i,
i.e., zi, and tracked object j, i.e., pj. By computing the
minimum likelihood value l∗
i in each row i of Lk, i.e.,
l∗
i = minj∈Tk lij, we can identify the best match between
each new measurement i and the existing tracked objects.
If the minimum value l∗
i is below a predefined likelihood
threshold τ, we preliminarily assign the new measurement i to
the tracked object j∗= argminj∈Tk lij. If, on the other hand,
the minimum value is above the threshold, we add the measure
zi,k to the set Nk, collecting all the measures which need
to be associated with new objects. Once all measurements
have been analyzed, if multiple measurements are associated
with the same object, we only preserve the association with
minimum likelihood value. The third block from the left in
Figure 3 illustrates the current module, showing the tracked
objects in yellow and the measurements in red.
4) EKF-based Multi-Object Tracking: The objective of
this module is to update the set of tracked objects T . An EKF
is associated with each tracked object, as reported in Section
II-B. For each vector zn ∈Nk, a new EKF is initialized with
state pn,0 = zn and the respective state is added to the set
of tracked objects T . Then, the prediction and update steps
for each tracked object o are executed independently: the
prediction step is triggered whenever a control input uk is
available, while the update step is triggered whenever a new
measurement zo,k is available. This enables the estimation
of the relative object localization information even when a
measurement is unavailable at a certain time k. To define the
prediction model in (3), let us consider the expression of the
object position with respect to a fixed world frame Σw, i.e.,
pw
o = pw
r + Rw
r pr
o,
where pw
r is the robot position with respect to frame Σw, Rw
r
is the rotation matrix between frame Σw and robot frame Σr,
while pr
o is the relative position of the object with respect to
Σr. By deriving the previous equation, one obtains
˙pw
o = ˙pw
r + Rw
r ˙pr
o + ωw
r × Rw
r pr
o,
where ˙pw
r and ωw
r denote the linear and angular velocities
of the robot with respect to Σw, the operator × denotes
the vector product, and the expression of the time derivative
of rotation matrices has been exploited. By recalling the
assumption made for our application scenario of having static
objects, i.e., ˙pw
o = 0, the relative velocity of the object with
respect to frame Σr can be computed as
˙pr
o = Rr
w[−˙pw
r −ωw
r × Rw
r pr
o].
At this point, by considering as frame Σw the frame of the
robot at time step k −1, we derive the following dynamics
pr
o,k+1 = pr
o,k −Rr,k
r,k−1( ˙pr,k−1
r,k
+ ωr,k−1
r,k
× Rr,k−1
r,k
pr
o,k) · ∆t,
where ∆t represents the sampling time, Rr,k
r,k−1 expresses
the rotation of the robot frame at time k −1 with respect to
the one at time k, and ˙pr,k−1
r,k
and ωr,k−1
r,k
denote the linear
and angular velocities of the robot at time k with respect
to frame at time k −1. For instance, if the robot frame Σr
is oriented with the x-axis aligned with the sagittal axis in
the direction of motion (as shown in red in Figure 1) and
the z-axis aligned with the vertical axis (in blue), the vector
˙pr,k−1
r,k
have zero components along y and z axis, while the
vector ωr,k−1
r,k
will have zero components along x and y axis.
As far as the update phase is concerned, if a measurement
in Mk is associated with the object o, the update equations
in (4), using measurement model in (6), are used.
IV. VALIDATION RESULTS
To evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed approach, we
firstly conducted a numerical validation within a simulated
vineyard environment, purposely designed for the H2020
CANOPIES project, as depicted in Figure 1. Then, we
performed a preliminary validation with a real robot in a
laboratory setting. In both scenarios, the mobile robot was
required to track table-grape bunches in its own (moving)
frame. Validation results are shown in the video at the link1.
A. Setup description
1) Simulation setup: The Unity-based simulation setup
used in this study realistically simulates a vineyard with table-
grape pergola system and 3m×3m planting pattern. Different
dimensions, grape densities, light orientation and intensity
can be set to reproduce different operating conditions. Mobile
robots, and in particular Alitrak DCT-300P mobile bases, can
be included and equipped with a PAL Robotics humanoid
robotic torso. Notably, the simulated environment, including
the robotic platforms, is a reliable reproduction of the real-
world one available for the experiments of CANOPIES project.
Finally, the simulator generates ground truth data for object
positions and is integrated with the Robot Operating System
(ROS) middleware. In our experimental setup, we equipped
the robot with an RGB-D camera mounted as shown in
Figure 1. We validated the framework by having the robot
navigate through the vineyard. Specifically, we created a
grid of waypoints positioned at the center of each cell
between the vines, as depicted in Figure 4 where triangles
denote waypoints and the square denotes the start and final
1https://youtu.be/2s1Tz4dUbZ0
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:44:29 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Fig. 4: Example of path employed for testing tracking system. The
square marker indicates the initial waypoint and the triangle markers
indicate intermediate waypoints.
configuration. These waypoints were used to plan a path that
ensured complete coverage of the field.
Fig. 5: Rviz environment screenshot from the laboratory validation
session (left). View of the laboratory setup (top-right). Visual output
of the object detection node (bottom-right).
2) Laboratory setup: Preliminary tests were conducted in
the laboratory to evaluate the algorithm in a real environment,
as shown in Figure 5. The setup included a synthetic tree
with three artificial grape bunches and a Turtlebot 2 robot,
equipped with a Realsense D435 RGB-D sensor. In addition,
an Optitrack motion capture system was employed to obtain
ground truth data. The robot was controlled using a joystick
and moved in a random manner around the tree.
B. Implementation details
The proposed framework has been fully realized within
ROS middleware with the following main nodes:
Robot odometry node, receiving velocity commands
for the mobile base as Twist messages and providing Odome-
try messages containing the state from the encoders.
Trajectory generator node, producing the desired
waypoint as PoseStamped message.
Robot controller, producing velocity commands in the
form of Twist messages based on the desired current waypoint.
Camera node, handling the RGB-D camera and publishing
RGB and depth as Image messages. Concurrently, the camera
intrinsic parameters are transmitted as CameraInfo messages.
Object detection node, performing the object detec-
tion and segmentation and publishing detected bounding boxes
and segmentation mask via custom messages.
Measurement computation node,
generating
the
measurements of the detected bunches with respect to the
robot frame. It listens to the object detection node output and,
Size
# Obj.
Mean [m]
Std. Dev. [m]
Min. [m]
Max. [m]
F.P.
3x3
15
0.075
0.010
0.043
0.359
0
4x4
33
0.076
0.027
0.011
0.378
0
5x5
51
0.169
0.067
0.017
0.506
0
6x6
81
0.208
0.075
0.020
0.583
0
TABLE I: For each field dimension, the number of initialized filters,
the values of the mean error, mean standard deviation, minimum
error, maximum error, and number of false positives are reported.
when a detection message is available, it computes the set
of 3D points associated to the bunches. The output of this
computation is then published via a MarkerArray message,
which provides the list of positions of detected bunches.
Data association node, responsible for possibly as-
sociating sensor measurements to tracked objects. Once the
association process is complete, the measurements are tagged
with an ID and published in a MarkerArray message.
Tracking node, executing the EKFs associated with
tracked objects. This node listens to the robot odometry
topic and the output of the data association node: every time
an odometry message is available, a prediction step is made
for every object; while every time new measurements are
available, a correction step is executed for the respective ob-
jects. The output of this computation provides a MarkerArray
message which contains the set of the tracked objects.
Regarding the considered parameters, we set the measure-
ment noise covariance matrix, Ro,k = diag{0.5, 0.5, 0.5},
and the process noise covariance matrix, Qo,k = 10−4I3,
∀o, k. Additionally, we initialized the error covariance matrix
at time 0, Po,0 = 0.05I3, ∀o. The similarity threshold
parameter for data association was set to τ = 0.35 m.
C. Simulation results
We validated the framework with different field sizes, from
3 rows and 3 columns (denoted as 3 × 3) to the case of
6 rows and 6 columns (denoted as 6 × 6). Specifically,
for each field size and for each waypoint provided by
the trajectory generator, we collected the estimation errors,
i.e., the distances, between ground truth data and estimated
object positions through the EKFs. Table I summarizes the
obtained results. Specifically, each row is associated with a
field size, while columns report the number of instantiated
EKFs, the average error, average standard deviation, minimum
and maximum errors, and the number of False Positives
(F.P., i.e., the number of active filters for the same object)
obtained considering all waypoints. It can be observed
that the mean and maximum error values increase with
the size of the field. This is motivated by the fact that,
according to our planned path, the higher the field size,
the more likely it is that numerous bunches have had their
latest measurements recorded long ago. Consequently, the
estimates for these bunches are updated solely with predict
equations in (3), resulting in an expected drift effect over
time. Indeed, it is worth noting that the proposed approach is
primarily well-suited for local multi-object tracking within the
robot surroundings. The whole-field coverage simulation was
merely conducted to showcase the results. In our future work,
for instance, we intend to utilize the multi-object tracking
system to guide the manipulator’s movement for harvesting
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:44:29 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

applications. Therefore, only the information of the bunches in
the vicinity of the robot are needed for an effective planning.
In addition, the table reports a minimum error always greater
than 0.01 m. This is motivated by the fact that, while the
ground truth values correspond to the precise location of
the peduncles of the bunches, we estimate their location by
selecting the central points of the top edges of the bounding
boxes associated with the detected bunches. This heuristics
is based on the typical structure of grape bunches, where the
peduncle is generally placed in the top-middle part of the
bunch. Finally, the table shows that no false positives were
recorded with the considered scenario.
Fig. 6: Top-view screenshot in RViz environment reporting the RGB-
D depth cloud, measurements (red squares), ground truth data (green
spheres), and estimated positions of the objects (yellow spheres).
Figure 6 shows a visual representation (generated in RViz)
of the results obtained with the coverage of a vineyard
composed of 3 rows and 3 columns. It reports the depth
cloud generated by the RGB-D camera as well as the markers
representing the ground truth positions of grape clusters
(in green), the markers depicting poses generated by the
measurement node (in red), and the markers obtained by
the EKFs of the tracked objects (in yellow). From the
image, it can be observed that, in general, the EKF markers
are relatively close to the ground truth markers. Certain
EKF markers exhibit a more significant error, which can
be attributed to the fact, as mentioned earlier, that the last
measurement was obtained a long time ago, preventing the
execution of the update equations.
D. Laboratory results
Figure 5 reports the laboratory setup (in the top right), the
detection output, where the detected clusters are masked, (in
the bottom right) as well as a graphical representation of
the measurements, tracking instances, and ground truth (on
the left). We reiterate that the detection module developed
within the H2020 CANOPIES project, detailed in [18], was
used. The robot moved for a total of 80 seconds. The figure,
accompanied by the video, showcases the capabilities of
the system to operate in a (simplified) real-world setup.
Specifically, we can observe that the EKF markers (in yellow)
closely approximate the ground truth markers (in green). On
a quantitative basis, we recorded mean error value equal to
0.043 m with a standard deviation of 0.03 m, while maximum
and minimum errors were 0.148 m and 0.003 m, respectively.
All bunches were successfully tracked with no false positives.
V. CONCLUSIONS
In this work, inspired by the needs of the H2020
CANOPIES project, we presented a framework for tracking
table grape bunches in a vineyard using a mobile robotic
platform equipped with an RGB-D camera. The proposed
multi-object position tracking module is based on an Extended
Kalman Filter which takes into account the robot motion for
estimating the location of the objects of interest. As future
work, we aim to validate the approach in a real setup and
exploit the proposed framework for driving the motion of a
mobile manipulator to carry out fruit harvesting operation,
during which occlusion and clutter problems occur.
REFERENCES
[1] R. Verschae and J. Ruiz-del Solar, “Object detection: current and future
directions,” Frontiers in Robotics and AI, vol. 2, p. 29, 2015.
[2] M. Lippi, N. Bonucci, R. F. Carpio, M. Contarini, S. Speranza,
and A. Gasparri, “A yolo-based pest detection system for precision
agriculture,” in Mediterranean Conf. Control and Automation, 2021,
pp. 342–347.
[3] A. Arlotta, M. Lippi, and A. Gasparri, “A ROS-based architecture for
object detection and relative localization for a mobile robot with an
application to a precision farming scenario,” in Mediterranean Conf.
Control and Automation, 2023.
[4] W. Luo, J. Xing, A. Milan, X. Zhang, W. Liu, and T.-K. Kim, “Multiple
object tracking: A literature review,” Artificial intelligence, vol. 293, p.
103448, 2021.
[5] Z. Sun, J. Chen, L. Chao, W. Ruan, and M. Mukherjee, “A survey of
multiple pedestrian tracking based on tracking-by-detection framework,”
IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. Video Technol., vol. 31, no. 5, pp. 1819–1833,
2020.
[6] D. Reid, “An algorithm for tracking multiple targets,” IEEE Trans.
Automatic Control, vol. 24, no. 6, pp. 843–854, 1979.
[7] N. Wojke, A. Bewley, and D. Paulus, “Simple online and realtime
tracking with a deep association metric,” in IEEE Int. Conf. Image
Processing, 2017, pp. 3645–3649.
[8] N. Wojke and A. Bewley, “Deep cosine metric learning for person re-
identification,” in IEEE Winter Conf. Applications of Computer Vision,
2018, pp. 748–756.
[9] E. Bochinski, T. Senst, and T. Sikora, “Extending iou based multi-
object tracking by visual information,” in IEEE Int. Conf. Advanced
Video and Signals-based Surveillance, 2018, pp. 441–446.
[10] R. Girshick, “Fast R-CNN,” in IEEE Int. Conf. Computer Vision, 2015,
pp. 1440–1448.
[11] S. Ren, K. He, R. Girshick, and J. Sun, “Faster r-cnn: Towards real-time
object detection with region proposal networks,” Advances in neural
information processing systems, vol. 28, 2015.
[12] C.-Y. Wang, A. Bochkovskiy, and H.-Y. M. Liao, “YOLOv7: Trainable
bag-of-freebies sets new state-of-the-art for real-time object detectors,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2207.02696, 2022.
[13] W. Liu, D. Anguelov, D. Erhan, C. Szegedy, S. Reed, C.-Y. Fu, and
A. C. Berg, “SSD: Single shot multibox detector,” in Computer Vision–
ECCV.
Springer, 2016, pp. 21–37.
[14] X. Zhou, V. Koltun, and P. Kr¨ahenb¨uhl, “Tracking objects as points,”
in European Conf. Computer Vision, 2020, pp. 474–490.
[15] Y. Zhang, C. Wang, X. Wang, W. Zeng, and W. Liu, “Fairmot: On the
fairness of detection and re-identification in multiple object tracking,”
Int. J. Computer Vision, vol. 129, pp. 3069–3087, 2021.
[16] M. S. Grewal and A. P. Andrews, Kalman filtering: Theory and Practice
with MATLAB.
John Wiley & Sons, 2014.
[17] M. Lippi, R. F. Carpio, M. Contarini, S. Speranza, and A. Gasparri,
“A data-driven monitoring system for the early pest detection in the
precision agriculture of hazelnut orchards,” IFAC-PapersOnLine, vol. 55,
no. 32, pp. 42–47, 2022.
[18] T. A. Ciarfuglia, I. M. Motoi, L. Saraceni, M. Fawakherji, A. Sanfeliu,
and D. Nardi, “Weakly and semi-supervised detection, segmentation
and tracking of table grapes with limited and noisy data,” Computers
and Electronics in Agriculture, vol. 205, p. 107624, 2023.
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:44:29 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
