
View
Online 
Export
Citation
RESEARCH ARTICLE | APRIL 02 2024
Fruit yield estimation and forecasting for precision
agriculture
Anju Ashokan ; N. Ali Akbar
AIP Conf. Proc. 3037, 020036 (2024)
https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0196960
Articles You May Be Interested In
DropTrack—Automatic droplet tracking with YOLOv5 and DeepSORT for microfluidic applications
Physics of Fluids (August 2022)
Smart green farming management system using IoT
AIP Conf. Proc. (October 2020)
Bird repeller for agriculture lands and orchards
AIP Conf. Proc. (September 2023)
 05 October 2026 02:47:53

Fruit Yield Estimation and Forecasting for Precision 
Agriculture 
Anju Ashokana) and N. Ali Akbarb) 
 
Government Engineering College, Thrissur, Kerala, India 
 
a) Corresponding author: anjuashokan252@gmail.com 
b) akbar@gectcr.ac.in 
 
Abstract. Precision agriculture is an ever-growing domain. Fruit yield estimation and forecasting is a necessary step 
towards precision agriculture. Reliable and accurate estimation of fruit yield in an orchard help the farmers to make suitable 
arrangements. Fruit yield estimation is performed on video footage in which fruits are detected and tracked in each frame 
of the input video. YOLO V5 (You Only Look Once Version 5) neural network are applied to detect fruits in an orchard. 
Bounding boxes are extracted from detection and Non-Maximum Suppression (NMS) is performed to avoid multiple 
detections. Then the results are input into the tracking pipeline. DeepSORT algorithm is used for tracking the fruits. By 
keeping track of the fruits throughout the video frames, it is ensured that we are estimating the total fruit count appropriately 
when they are detected. Future fruit yield prediction is also carried out using time series forecasting by ARIMA model. 
This work may greatly help the needy farmers in yield estimation and predicting the future yields for sustainable growth. 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
In most countries, fruit cultivation is practiced in large areas to meet the worldwide demand. Because manual counting 
involves skilled observation and longer estimating times, it has low accuracy results and is expensive. With manual 
yield estimation, subsequent decision-making for farmers becomes a difficult task. If farmers know their yield, they’ll 
accurately calculate their harvest [1] and production costs, and their profits, and founded their equipment prior to. 
These problems drive the development of an intelligent fruit yield estimation system that gives farmers greater 
advantages when choosing when to harvest, market their produce, etc. If farmers know their yield, they will accurately 
calculate [1] their harvest and production costs, and their profits, and founded their equipment ahead. Any farmer is 
inquisitive about knowing what quantity yield he’s getting ready to expect. Knowing the yield help farmers make 
informed choices in terms of the way to allocate resources for harvesting, preparing storage per fruit sizes, and better 
plan for harvest routes and packaging and to give some thought to the methods to extend their yield. This could benefit 
farmer’s profitability and efficiency [1]. 
 
RELATED WORKS 
 
This section describes previous research and systems on fruit yield estimation. Fruit recognition could be a fundamental 
step in autonomous yield calculation. The objective is to identify every fruit in an image. A novel Faster R-CNN model 
with classifier fusion to automatically detect small fruits [2]. To learn three classifiers for object categorization, it uses 
features from three separate layers. A straightforward convolutional layer combines classifier probabilities. The region 
proposal network is trained using a unique loss function with classifier correlation. 
 
Multi-task cascaded convolutional networks-based detector containing three cascaded networks [3]. Fusion 
augmentation, an improved augmented method, a procedure that is based on image fusion. The average time cost of 
the detector was less than 80 seconds per one hundred images [3-5]. 
International Conference on Recent Innovations in Science and Technology (RIST2022)
AIP Conf. Proc. 3037, 020036-1–020036-13; https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0196960
Published by AIP Publishing. 978-0-7354-4905-3/$30.00
020036-1
 05 October 2026 02:47:53

A novel weakly-supervised framework for fruit counting. The WSCOUNT strategy in which novel convolutional 
neural [4] network architecture that requires only a image level binary classifier. Exploits a binary presence absence 
classifier (PAC), trained with only image level labels [4]. 
 
YOLO V3 is employed with spatial pyramid pooling (YOLOv3-SPP) as the back-end object detector [6-9]. The CNN 
model used by YOLO V3 is called DarkNet53 and it uses 53 layers. The anchor box that intersects the real world most 
closely. The ideal forecast is the bounding box. After all boxes have been checked, non-max suppression (NMS) is 
predicted. An improved YOLO-V4 deep learning algorithm is used for detection [5]. The CNN model used by YOLO 
V3 is called DarkNet53 and it uses 53 layers [10]. The anchor box that intersects the real world most closely. The 
ideal forecast is the bounding box. After all boxes have been checked, non-max suppression (NMS) is predicted. 
 
Deep learning architectures have recently been utilised to handle a number of computer vision issues, including gesture 
recognition, object detection, image segmentation, and action recognition. When compared to traditional methods 
based on hand-crafted features, deep learning techniques do particularly well when processing video streams to 
distinguish individual activities. The secret to these results is a rich and discriminative representation extracted from 
multi-layer nonlinear systems in the deep learning approaches, despite the fact that numerous ways to extract superior 
handmade features have been offered. Convolutional neural networks (CNN) and multi-layer fully connected neural 
networks (deep neural networks) were used by us to find significant time-space features, and prior works demonstrated 
the potential of the deep learning method for estimating fruit output [11-14]. 
 
Deep learning has brought attention thanks to its ability to supply higher accurate models for object detection, object 
classification, scenario analysis, real-time surveillance, ADAS, etc. Models in deep learning are trained with high- 
quality images to predict and provide final high-quality output. So, lesser quality image causes the computer vision 
algorithms to affect their performance, providing undesirable output. With high-quality images, the DL algorithms 
learns the features that are necessary for performing the applications efficiently. Therefore, deep learning techniques 
using YOLO V5 are chosen for fruit yield estimation. 
 
METHODOLOGY 
 
The proposed system is fruit yield estimation and forecasting for precision agriculture. Fruit yield estimation is done 
with use of YOLO V5 and DeepSORT. Future fruit yield prediction is carried out using time series forecasting by 
ARIMA model. This work may greatly help the needy farmers in yield estimation and predicting the future yields for 
sustainable growth. The project is done on mango fruits. 
 
Fruit Yield Estimation 
 
Fruit yield estimation is performed on video footage in which fruits are detected and tracked in each frame of the input 
video. Detection is performed with the use of YOLO V5 (You Only Look Once Version 5) neural network. By keeping 
track of the fruits throughout the video frames [1], it is ensured that we are estimating the total fruit count appropriately 
when they are detected. The final count generated gives the estimate of the total number of fruits present in the video. 
Dataset Collection 
 
The dataset containing images of mangoes is collected. The Mango dataset comprises jpeg images showing mango 
fruits in trees. This type of dataset is required for fruit yield estimation since the dataset contains mango fruits in highly 
occluded conditions. This will increase the accuracy of the model to detect in highly complex environments. 
Dataset Labeling 
 
Labeling of dataset is done using labeling tools. There’s a limited amount of annotated data currently available for 
object detection. That can be a hurdle. If we are not able to find an annotated dataset then we need to create one by 
ourself. There are many tools available on GitHub that we can use to annotate the images for free. 
020036-2
 05 October 2026 02:47:53

Dataset are labeled using LabelImg tool. LabelImg supports YOLO and PASCAL VOC formats. Since the project is 
predicated on YOLO V5. The format employed in the project is YOLO format. Annotations are saved as text files in 
YOLO format. 
In this case, since mango dataset is collected, the fruits are labeled as ’mango’ as shown in Figure 2. The mango fruit 
images are annotated as "mango" by drawing bounding box around it. Hence just one class i.e "mango" class is present. 
therefore, the mango class has class ID as 0. The data set contains mango fruits which are highly occluded by leaves, 
overlapped mangoes, mangoes at different illumination conditions. Hence through labeling mangoes in such complex 
environments increases the detection mechanism of the model. 
 
 
 
 
FIGURE 1. Fruit Yield Estimation 
 
Lighting and occlusion [1] both pose difficulties in detection and tracking. The dataset is manually annotated with 
class name as "mango". So, in this project, only one class is required and used ie ’mango’ class with class numbered 
as ’0’ since the number of classes is ’1’. 
 
Building YOLO V5 Model 
 
The YOLO V5model is a object detection network. The purpose the YOLO V5 model is for detecting mangoes. The 
YOLOv5 model consists of mainly three parts: backbone network, neck network, and head layer. YOLO V5 utilizes 
PyTorch. The backbone layer is used for feature extraction. CSPDarknet53is used as the backbone of YOLO V5. The 
backbone layer also consists of focus layer which is used for performing slicing operations of the input image. The 
neck layer is used for generating feature pyramids. The mangoes with different scales can be identified with feature 
pyramids. The head (YOLO) layer is the output detection layer from which the final detections of the input image are 
produced with bounding boxes. YOLO V5 perform Non-Maximum Suppression (NMS) to avoid multiple detections 
to get the final mango detections. 
 
After labeling of dataset is done, the YOLO V5 model is trained with the custom dataset ie Mango dataset. Spilt the 
dataset into training and testing dataset by 70% and 30% respectively. Training of YOLO V5 is done in Google Colab 
since GPU is required during training. Training Train custom mango dataset with YOLOv5 in Google Colab. 
YOLOv5s is used due to its smallest and fastest features. Clone the YOLO V5 from github repository. Then install 
required requirements. YOLO V5 contains essential inbuilt functions required for effective running of the project. 
 
In YOLO v5, coco128 dataset containing 80 classes are pretrained with YOLO V5. For these classes, the pretrained 
weights are used for detection in such cases. But mango is not pretrained with YOLO. So, the mango dataset collected 
have to be trained with YOLO V5 to generate the weight file used for mango detection. YOLO V5 is fine-tuned by 
training with dataset comprising of 101 mango tree images. Train YOLOv5s model on COCO128.yaml for 100 
epochs by specifying custom dataset path, batch-size as 16, image size as 224, and with pretrained –weights 
yolov5s.pt. Pretrained weights are auto-downloaded from the latest YOLOv5 release.
020036-3
 05 October 2026 02:47:53

 
 
 
FIGURE 2. Labeling using LabelImg 
 
 
FIGURE 3. Architecture Of YOLO V5 
 
 
The model is trained by 100 epochs with batch size 16. It took 0.041 hours for completing 100 epochs. The model 
summary obtained represents the features of the model comprising its layers, parameters, gradients, etc. The Model 
Summary obtained is: 213 layers, 7012822 parameters, 0 gradients, 15.8 GFLOPs. 
 
Testing After YOLO V5 model training is done, the model is tested. Testing is done in Jupyter Notebook since the 
results are stored from the drive to the system. The YOLO V5 custom trained model is tested against the images 
containing mangoes in the dataset. 
 
The results of testing show the number of images tested and its dimensions. It also shows the count of the number of 
mangoes detected. It also outputs the speed required for the detection which is just milliseconds taken for detecting and 
the inference and Non-Maximum Suppression (NMS) per image at shape of the image. The result shows the mango 
fruits detected by bounding box and the confidence score of each detected mango fruit is also displayed. 
 
 
020036-4
 05 October 2026 02:47:53

Tracking Using DeepSORT 
 
DeepSORT is used for fruit tracking after detections of fruits are done in the input video. It also uses the Kalman filter 
to predict the current position using the last location of the fruit. [6] The highest identifier obtained during tracking is 
used to estimate the total count of the mangoes in the input video. Then DeepSORT associates between the [1] same 
fruits in different frames by using distance metrics, based on the motion of the fruit and on the appearance of the fruit.   
After we obtain the first bounding boxes from YOLO [1], the first step in the DeepSORT pipeline is initializing the 
tracked object for the detections. The track is given a number of attributes including Track ID as an identifier, Feature 
matrix which is the output of the OSNet and represents the object is appearance, Track state which represents the 
current state of the track, mean and covariance matrices which are used for the Kalman Filter that are updated with 
every prediction. [1]. 
 
The Yolov5-DeepSort-OSNet model is used for fruit tracking in this project. Track Identifier (ID) is mainly used for 
estimating the fruit yield. It contains many inbuilt files which are beneficial for tracking. 
 
 
Fruit Counting for Yield Estimation 
 
Fruit yield estimation is done from the results obtained after tracking. The results of tracking are stored to the google 
drive containing the weights folder of exp2 in the YOLO v5 folder.Out.txt generated as a result of tracking are used 
for fruit yield estimation. The out.txt contains frame number of the in out video. tracking unique identifier (ID), 
bounding box coordinates and the class of the detected object. Here only one class is generated ie class ’0’ since only 
mango is labeled in the custom dataset. Out of the columns generated, drop all other columns except second columns 
which represents the tracking identifier to get the fruit count. From the second column (i.e. Track identifier), the 
highest value of the tracking identifier represents the count of the mangoes in the input video. 
 
Fruit Yield Forecasting 
 
Fruit Yield Forecasting is carried out after fruit yield estimation by fruit counting is done to predict the future pro- 
duction trend. This work may greatly help the needy farmers in yield estimation and predicting the future yields for 
developing a sustainable future. Fruit Yield Forecasting is done with ARIMA model.   Auto Regressive Integrated 
Moving Average (ARIMA) is an algorithm for forecasting that is based on the previous values of the dataset in order 
to predict the future values. ARIMA is an efficient technique for time series forecasting. 
 
Dataset Collection and Preprocessing 
 
In this project, dataset for future forecasting comprising Indian status of mangoes is collected from Indiastat as shown 
in Figure. All India Area, Production and Productivity of mango in India of years 1987-1998, 1991-1992 to 2021-
2022 are collected from Indiastat. Data Cleaning is done in order to handle missing data. Drop observations that have 
missing and null values. Columns containing percentage of fruit area and production having majority of null values 
are eliminated. 
 
Stationarity Checking 
 
The primary step of the ARIMA model is to make the dataset stationary in order to build an ARIMA model. The 
stationarity of data is tested by Augmented Dickey Fuller (ADF) test using test-stationarity function. Test Statistic 
value is greater than critical value. So, dataset is not stationary. To make data stationary, most common technique is 
used that is to subtract the past production (in MT) value from the present production (in MT) value in the dataset. 
020036-5
 05 October 2026 02:47:53

 
 
 
FIGURE 4. Fruit Yield Forecasting 
 
Then test for stationarity of the data again after performing differencing. After first order differencing(d), Test statistic 
becomes less than critical value as shown in figure. So, data becomes stationary. 
 
Building ARIMA Model 
 
After time series dataset are made stationary, ARIMA model is builded. With p and q standing for the order of the 
Auto-Regressive (AR) term and Moving Average (MA) term, respectively, Auto ARIMA is used to determine the 
order of ARIMA(p,d,q) to be utilised to forecast the best results. The time series [7] must have d differences in order 
for it to remain stationary. 
 
The optimal parameters, p, q, and d, are chosen via auto ARIMA. We utilise the fit() command in Auto ARIMA to fit 
the model without having to choose the p, q, and d combination. The optimal p, q, and d parameter combinations are 
determined by the Auto Arima. In order to choose the ideal set of parameters, Auto ARIMA also looks at the AIC and 
BIC values [8] that are created. Values of the Akaike Information Criterion (AIC) [9], Bayesian Information Criterion 
(BIC) , Hannan Quinn Information Criterion (HIC) are used to compare ARIMA models. The model is better when 
these values are lower. 
 
Forecasting Fruit Yields 
 
From the obtained Seasonal ARIMA (p,d,q)x(P,D,Q)m is used to forecast the future yields. A graph is plotted between 
actual production and predicted production to determine how much the model fits the data. As the ARIMA model-
built fits data approximately, the model used to forecast the yield for the next five years ie from 2022-2026. The graph 
is ploted and the predicted production (in MT) are displayed showing the yield forecasted. 
020036-6
 05 October 2026 02:47:53

−
 
 
 
FIGURE 5. Training results showing Precision, Recall, mAP curve, etc. 
 
EVALUATION CRITERIA AND RESULTS 
 
The evaluation metrics used in the fruit yield estimation system is evaluated by using Precision, Accuracy, F1 score 
and mean Average Precision (mAP). 
 
                                                                    Precision = (TP) / (TP + FP) 
 
Recall = (TP) / (TP + FN) 
 
F1 measure = (2 * Precision * Recall) / (Precision + Recall) 
    
                                                    
(1) 
 
(2) 
 
(3) 
where T P is True positive sample [10] and FP is False positive, denote positive and negative sample respectively, 
predicted to be true and FN is False negative. 
 
Precision of 82.4, Recall of 87.2, F1-score of 71.9, mAP of 89.6 is obtained with the fine-tuned weights of YOLO V5 
trained with our custom prepared mango dataset. Training results are plotted as results.png after training completes as 
shown in Figure 5. 
 
The tracking results are stored in the weight file present in the runs folder of YOLO. The track folder saves the tracked 
video and tracking information as out.txt. The out.txt contains information such as frame number, unique identifier, 
bounding box coordinates and the class number of the tracked object ie. mango. 
020036-7
 05 October 2026 02:47:53

 
FIGURE 6. P curve 
 
 
 
FIGURE 7. PR curve 
 
 
FIGURE 8. F1 curve 
020036-8
 05 October 2026 02:47:53

 
 
 
 
FIGURE 9. Fruits detected using YOLO V5 
 
 
FIGURE 10. Detection Results 
 
 
 
FIGURE 11. Tracking of mango in the input video 
 
 
020036-9
 05 October 2026 02:47:53

 
 
FIGURE 12. Results of Tracking 
 
 
 
 
FIGURE 13. Results of counting (yield estimation) 
 
 
 
 
FIGURE 14. Plotting production (in MT) per year 
 
020036-10
 05 October 2026 02:47:53

 
 
FIGURE 15. ARIMA modeling 
 
 
 
 
FIGURE 16. Yield Prediction showing Actual and Predicted Production 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FIGURE 17. Forecasting yield 
 
 
020036-11
 05 October 2026 02:47:53

 
 
FIGURE 18. Yield forecasting for the next 5 years 
 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
The project successfully works for yield estimation and for forecasting future yields with high speed and efficiency. 
Fruit yield estimation system is used to estimate the [11] accurate number of fruits present in the orchard. On video 
footage, fruit yield estimation is done by first identifying and then tracking the fruits in each frame of the input video. 
Bounding boxes are recovered from the YOLO V5 model, and Non-Maximum Suppression (NMS) is employed to 
induce final detections. The tracking pipeline is then updated with the results. DeepSORT algorithm is used for 
tracking the fruits. By keeping track of the fruits throughout the video frames [1], it is ensured that we are estimating 
the total fruit count appropriately when they are detected. Future fruit yield prediction is also carried out using time 
series forecasting by ARIMA model. This work may greatly help the needy farmers in yield estimation and predicting 
the future yields for sustainable growth. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 
 
I give honor and praise to LORD who gave me wisdom and enabled me to undertake my project successfully. I extend 
my heartfelt appreciation to my project supervisor Ali Akbar N, Assistant Professor of CSE for his timely suggestions 
and encouragements, and for guidance through the processes involved in the presentation of the project and the 
preparation of the report. 
REFERENCES 
 
1. Y. Osman, R. Dennis, and K. Elgazzar, “Yield estimation using deep learning for precision agriculture,” in 2021 
IEEE 7th World Forum on Internet of Things (WF-IoT) (IEEE, 2021) pp. 542–550. 
2. X. Mai, H. Zhang, X. Jia, and M. Q.-H. Meng, “Faster r-cnn with classifier fusion for automatic detection of small 
fruits,” IEEE Transactions on Automation Science and Engineering 17, 1555–1569 (2020). 
3. L. Zhang, G. Gui, A. M. Khattak, M. Wang, W. Gao, and J. Jia, “Multi-task cascaded convolutional networks 
based intelligent fruit detection for designing automated robot,” IEEE Access 7, 56028–56038 (2019). 
4. E. Bellocchio, T. A. Ciarfuglia, G. Costante, and P. Valigi, “Weakly supervised fruit counting for yield estimation 
using spatial consistency,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters 4, 2348–2355 (2019). 
5. R. Gai, N. Chen, and H. Yuan, “A detection algorithm for cherry fruits based on the improved yolo-v4 model,” 
Neural Computing and Applications , 1–12 (2021). 
6. S. Lyu, R. Li, Y. Zhao, Z. Li, R. Fan, and S. Liu, “Green citrus detection and counting in orchards based on yolov5-
cs and ai edge system,” Sensors 22, 576 (2022). 
7. H. Salpekar et al., “Design and implementation of mobile application for crop yield prediction using machine 
learning,” in 2019 Global Conference for Advancement in Technology (GCAT) (IEEE, 2019) pp. 1–6. 
8. 
X. Xingmei, C. Liying, Z. Jing, and S. Fengyan, “Study and application of grain yield forecasting model,” in 2015 4th 
020036-12
 05 October 2026 02:47:53

International Conference on Computer Science and Network Technology (ICCSNT), Vol. 1 (IEEE, 2015) pp. 652–
656. 
9. 
S. Atique, S. Noureen, V. Roy, S. Bayne, and J. Macfie, “Time series forecasting of total daily solar energy generation: 
A comparative analysis between arima and machine learning techniques,” in 2020 IEEE Green Technologies 
Conference (GreenTech) (IEEE, 2020) pp. 175–180. 
10. Y. Jiang, L. Li, F. Zhang, W. Zhang, and Q. Yu, “Free range laying hens monitoring system based on improved 
mobilenet lightweight network,” in 2021 IEEE International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Computer 
Applications (ICAICA) (IEEE, 2021) pp. 487–494. 
11. E. Bellocchio, G. Costante, S. Cascianelli, M. L. Fravolini, and P. Valigi, “Combining domain adaptation and 
spatial consistency for unseen fruits counting: a quasi-unsupervised approach,” IEEE Robotics and Automation 
Letters 5, 1079–1086 (2020). 
12. T. V. Nguyen, Z. Huang, S. Bethini, V. S. P. Ippagunta, and P. H. Phung, “Secure captchas via object segment 
collages,” IEEE Access 8, 84230–84238 (2020). 
13. X. Liu, S. W. Chen, C. Liu, S. S. Shivakumar, J. Das, C. J. Taylor, J. Underwood, and V. Kumar, “Monocular camera 
based fruit counting and mapping with semantic data association,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters 4, 2296–
2303 (2019). 
14. W. Yijing, Y. Yi, W. Xue-fen, C. Jian, and L. Xinyun, “Fig fruit recognition method based on yolo v4 deep learning,” 
in 2021 18th International Conference on Electrical Engineering/Electronics, Computer, Telecommunications and 
Information Technology (ECTI-CON) (IEEE, 2021) pp. 303–306. 
020036-13
 05 October 2026 02:47:53
