1
AgRegNet: A Deep Regression Network for
Flower and Fruit Density Estimation,
Localization, and Counting in Orchards
Uddhav Bhattarai, Santosh Bhusal, Qin Zhang, and Manoj Karkee
Abstract
One of the major challenges for the agricultural industry today is the uncertainty in manual labor
availability and the associated cost. Automated flower and fruit density estimation, localization, and
counting could help streamline harvesting, yield estimation, and crop-load management strategies such
as flower and fruitlet thinning. This article proposes a deep regression-based network, AgRegNet,
to estimate density, count, and location of flower and fruit in tree fruit canopies without explicit
object detection or polygon annotation. Inspired by popular U-Net architecture, AgRegNet is a U-
shaped network with an encoder-to-decoder skip connection and modified ConvNeXt-T as an encoder
feature extractor. AgRegNet can be trained based on information from point annotation and leverages
segmentation information and attention modules (spatial and channel) to highlight relevant flower and
fruit features while suppressing non-relevant background features. Experimental evaluation in apple
flower and fruit canopy images under an unstructured orchard environment showed that AgRegNet
achieved promising accuracy as measured by Structural Similarity Index (SSIM), percentage Mean
Absolute Error (pMAE) and mean Average Precision (mAP) to estimate flower and fruit density, count,
and centroid location, respectively. Specifically, the SSIM, pMAE, and mAP values for flower images
were 0.938, 13.7%, and 0.81, respectively. For fruit images, the corresponding values were 0.910, 5.6%,
and 0.93. Since the proposed approach relies on information from point annotation, it is suitable for
sparsely and densely located objects. This simplified technique will be highly applicable for growers to
accurately estimate yields and decide on optimal chemical and mechanical flower thinning practices.
Index Terms
The authors are with Department of Biological Systems Engineering, Center for Precision and Automated Agricultural
Systems, Washington State University, Prosser, WA, 99350 USA (email: uddhav.bhattarai@wsu.edu, santosh.bhusal@wsu.edu,
qinzhang@wsu.edu, manoj.karkee@wsu.edu)
arXiv:2409.17400v2  [cs.CV]  16 Jan 2025

2
agriculture automation, deep learning, density estimation, flower/fruit count, flower/fruit localization,
spatial distribution, vision in agriculture
I. INTRODUCTION
The United States tree fruit production industry is largely dependent on the human labor
force for field operations such as training, harvesting, pruning, and flower and fruitlet thinning.
Automation in tree fruit crops can improve the efficiency, quality, and sustainability of fruit
production while reducing labor costs and addressing the labor shortage challenges. Crop-load
management approaches such as flower and fruit thinning, and harvesting require information
such as flower and fruit distribution, count, and location over the different growth stages.
Such information during flowering and green fruitlet development stages would be essential
to leverage selective/targeted mechanical and chemical thinning approaches to maximize fruit
quality and yield [1], [2]. Counting matured fruit during harvest season assists in pre-and
post-harvest management strategies, including estimating the labor force, harvesting equipment,
transport logistics, post-harvest processing, packing, inventory management, and sales planning.
Fruit location and distribution estimation help optimize the distribution of the labor force and
harvesting containers. Currently, growers manually inspect flower and fruit distribution in sample
location, followed by extrapolation to the entire orchard, which is prone to error, labor-intensive,
challenging to scale, and expensive [3].
Robust computer vision algorithms, including deep learning, are increasingly being adopted
in various agricultural applications, such as nutrient content assessment [4], [5], plant disease
diagnosis [6], fruit detection, classification, and segmentation [7]–[10], flower detection and
segmentation [1], [11], [12] in challenging field environments. The fully supervised deep learning
approaches offer high accuracy, precise object detection, and boundary estimation, which is
well suited for applications such as robotic harvesting and fruit growth tracking. However, the
detection-based approaches are highly complicated and may not necessary for many agricultural
tasks such as crop-load estimation and bloom density estimation. For instance, full boom flowers
in both stone (e.g., cherry) and pome fruits (e.g., apples) are densely located in constrained
space with high flower-to-flower occlusions making individual flower annotation and detection
challenging (see Fig. 1). Additionally, the detection of unopened flowers (see Fig. 1, top-left) is
highly challenging since flowers are smaller in size and lack feature information.

3
In this work, we investigated the implementation of computer vision and deep learning in
dense, highly occluded flower and fruit density estimation, localization, and counting, which is
an under-explored area in agriculture. Density estimation has been studied in other application
areas, specifically in crowd counting [13]–[15]. We argue a similar approach could be translated
and extended into tree fruit production applications and help growers with efficient fruit pro-
duction and management. This article proposed a segmentation-assisted deep regression network
for flower and fruit density estimation, count, and localization leveraging a point annotation
technique. The proposed approach does not require precise object boundary annotation, and
bypasses object detection, region proposal estimation, and non-maximal suppression, making the
estimation process simpler and computationally lighter. Integration of point annotation simplified
the manual annotation process requiring only a pixel for each object, making the proposed method
applicable even for highly occluded environments. The main contributions of the article are as
follows:
• Inspired by U-Net [16] architecture and the recent advancement of ConvNeXt - T [17], a
regression-based U-shaped network was developed by modifying ConvNeXt - T architecture
for flower and fruit density estimation and counting, followed by a post-processing technique
for localization.
• A segmentation pipeline and attention mechanism were incorporated to handle unique agri-
cultural problems caused by occlusions from leaves, branches, trunks, and the background
objects (flowers and fruits in the immediate rows), which often appear similar to the objects
of interest in terms of shape, size, and texture. The segmentation pipeline and attention
mechanism highlighted and integrated the crucial flower and fruit features while suppressing
the non-relevant background information.
• The proposed approach was evaluated in challenging datasets acquired in unstructured
commercial apple orchards during flower thinning and harvesting seasons, making the
algorithm directly applicable to the field operations in different growing stages.
The remaining parts of the paper are organized as follows. Section II presents detection-based
approaches that can be extended for flower and fruit density estimation, counting, localization,
and counting without detection methods. The technical details of the proposed approach are
discussed in section III. Section IV presents the implementation and experimental details. Section
V presents the results and discussion. Finally, we derive a few conclusions and suggest future

4
directions in section VI.
Fig. 1: Example apple flower and fruit dataset used in this work. Apple flower dataset consisted
of images acquired in two blooming stages (majority of flowers unopened and full bloom) in
two apple canopy training architectures (Vertical wall, V trellis). Fruit images publicly available
from [7] were annotated and evaluated.
II. PREVIOUS WORK
The classical learning approaches requiring extensive feature engineering could only support
input data transformation into very few successive representation spaces and showed poor per-
formance in complex problems, which eventually gave rise to deep learning [18]. Dias et al.
[19], [20] reported the implementation of deep learning in flower cluster segmentation using
Convolution Neural Network (CNN) for feature extraction and region refinement approaches.
Bargoti and Underwood [21] compared multilayer perceptron and CNN for image segmentation,
followed by a watershed algorithm and circular Hough transform (CHT) for fruit detection.
Additionally, popular end-to-end object detection and segmentation approaches such as Faster
R-CNN (FRCNN) [22], Mask R-CNN (MRCNN) [23], and You Only Look Once (YOLO)

5
[24] have been heavily adopted in object detection and segmentation in agricultural contexts.
FRCNN has been used for single to multi-class classification and detection of fruits such as
apples [7], kiwis [8], oranges [8], mangoes [8], and flower clusters [1]. In another work, Farjon
et al. [1] proposed FRCNN-based cluster detection [1] and Wang et al. [2] proposed cluster
segmentation-based methods for flower density estimation to optimize chemical flower thinning.
Tian et al. [9] implemented improved YOLO v3 with DenseNet as a feature extractor for apple
fruit detection. MRCNN, capable of simultaneous detection and instance-level segmentation, has
been adopted for apple fruit, flower, and flower cluster detection and segmentation [11], [12],
[25]. Additionally, some previously reported approaches perform fruit counting using two-stage
computation [26]–[28]. The possible fruit locations were first separated by using a blob detection
convolution network [26], or region proposal network [27], [28] followed by linear regression
[26], or classification method for counting [27], [28].
Detection-based approaches are robust and accurate since the deep neural networks are trained
on exact object features specified by polygons or bounding boxes. However, the detection-based
approaches may not be suitable if the number of object instances is large, the object size is small,
or if a heavy occlusion exists between the object of interest and the object and background. A
study reported by Gomez et al. [29] showed that detection-based and regression-based counting
showed comparative results for low-density objects in agriculture datasets. However, for high-
density objects (more than 100 objects/image), detection-based counting had shown five times
larger error compared to regression-based counting [29]. Furthermore, during full bloom, individ-
ual flower detection becomes highly challenging since flowers are located in dense clusters with
substantial flower-to-flower occlusions. The object detection approaches have shown to perform
poorly in detecting small objects [30]. Despite their maturity (unopened/fully opened), individual
flowers have a substantially lower pixel footprint compared to well-sized apples. Furthermore,
flowers are more randomly oriented than fruits, resulting in random cluster structures and
orientation, adding challenges even for human annotators (see Fig. 1) to annotate individual
flowers. Hence developing computer vision approaches with the following characteristics is
important: i) Ability to operate effectively on densely located objects without being influenced
by the number of objects present in the image. ii) Simplified annotation process to facilitate
easier and more efficient data labeling and network training. iii) Lightweight design enabling
implementation on low-computation devices like cell phones and IoT devices.
Despite significant research in flower and fruit detection, limited studies have been reported

6
for direct flower and fruit density estimation (sometimes referred to as mapping), localization,
and counting. Recently, Farjon et al. [31] proposed a leaf-counting regression network using
ResNet-50 and a feature pyramid network for banana and tobacco leaf counting and localiza-
tion. Rahnemoonfar and Sheppard [32] used a modified version of Inception-ResNet trained
in synthetic images to count red tomatoes. Our previous work studied direct flower and fruit
counting and investigated the characteristic features contributing to the object count [33]. The
proposed approach in this work is lightweight convolution neural network and leverages the
ConvNeX - T architecture, an improvement over the ResNet-50 architecture. Furthermore, the
proposed approach employs a U-Net-like structure with a skip connection allowing the low-level
features to be transmitted to the deeper convolution layers. Furthermore, unlike the previously
reported approaches, we introduce a segmentation branch and utilize the attention mechanism to
suppress the background features (caused by a canopy in the immediate back row) and handle
occlusions (caused by trunk, branch, leaves, and trellis wire) often seen in agriculture which is
expected to improve the system performance while minimally adding computational overhead.
III. PROPOSED APPROACH
The proposed approach was to estimate object density maps specifying the flower and fruit
distribution followed by object count and location estimation. To generate the density map,
individual flowers and fruits were first annotated1 as single point/pixel specifying the flower and
fruit centroid. Only the flowers and fruits on the immediate front canopy row were annotated, and
the flowers/fruits on the back canopy were considered as background. Since the single point/pixel
provided minimal object feature information, two ground truth maps, 1) Density Map and 2)
Segmentation Map, were generated by inclusing pixels in neighborhood of the annotated centroids
to train the neural network. The density map was the final output of the proposed network, while
the segmentation map acted as an intermediate output and was used to refine the density map.
A. Ground Truth Generation
1) Density Map Generation: Following the strategy used by [34], density maps were created
by convolving normalized Gaussian kernel at each centroid. Since the area under the curve of the
normalized Gaussian kernel equals one, the summation of all the pixels in the convolved image
1http://www.robots.ox.ac.uk/ vgg/software/via/

7
provided the total number of flowers and fruits. The distribution/spread of the Gaussian kernel
could be varied by varying the standard deviation. Since the fixed standard deviation created
density maps without regard to the distribution of neighboring objects, the adaptive standard
deviation was computed using the KNN approach. The neighborhood search was performed in
k-d tree space, and the standard deviation was defined as 15% (flower) and 25% (fruit) of the
distance from the nearest neighbor. Let δ(x −xm
f , y −yn
f ); m ∈H, n ∈W, f ∈I represent fth
flower or fruit centroids located at pixel (xm, yn). The 2D object density map was computed as
D(x, y) =
I
X
f=1
1
√
2πσf
exp
 
−(x −xm
f )2 + (y −yn
f )2
2σ2
f
!
(1)
I is the total number of centroids in the image with height, H and width W, and σf is the
standard deviation of the Gaussian filter for centroid index f.
2) Segmentation Map Generation: The purpose of a segmentation map was to act as a gate
to pass the relevant features while suppressing irrelevant features (e.g. apples and flowers in
the background row, the background sky) in the density map via binary classification of pixels.
Although it was named as segmentation map, the objective was not the target to delineate
individual objects but to refine generated density map to highlight feature information of relevant
objects. The segmentation map was generated by convolving circular disk structuring elements
in each flower and fruit centroid. A circular object with a center at origin and radius r can be
represented in standard form as x2 + y2 = r2. For the flower and fruit centroids distributed at
different locations within the image, the 2D object segmentation map was computed as
S(x, y) =
I
X
f=1
(x −xm
f )2 + (y −ym
f )2 ≤r2; r = 2σf
(2)
B. Network Architecture
The architecture of the proposed density estimation network was inspired by the encoder-
decoder framework of the original U-Net architecture used for medical image segmentation [16].
Fig. 2 illustrates the proposed AgRegNet architecture. The front-end feature extraction module of
AgRegNet was designed by modifying the ConvNeXt-T network architecture originally derived
from the ResNet-50 [17]. A dual attention mechanism proposed by [35] was added within the
modified ConvNeXt-T encoder skip connections and the encoder to decoder skip connections to
enhance relevant features in both spatial and channel domains. Furthermore, a segmentation map

8
3
+
+
+
+
+
32 32
32
64 64
64
128 128
128
256
256
256
512
512
512
x
Lseg
Lreg
256
128
64
32
32
x3
Downsample Layers
ConvNeXt Block
ConvNext Stem1
1x1 Conv
1x1 Conv
Upsample Layers
Conv. Block C=32 16 1
Attention Block
Conv. Block with Dilation
Stage1
Stage2
Stage3
Stage4
Stage5
Fig. 2: AgRegNet: The proposed approach for flower and fruit density estimation in agriculture
dataset. The network has U-Net inspired encoder-decoder framework with modified ConvNeXt
- T in the encoder. A segmentation branch was added to transmit relevant features and suppress
background information
was generated in the decoder section and was used as a feature filtering gate to pass the relevant
features to the final density map estimation pipeline while suppressing irrelevant features.
1) Front-end Feature Extraction Module: The encoder section of the front-end feature ex-
traction module was designed by modifying the ConvNeXt-T network architecture proposed by
[17]. During the preliminary experiment, the original ConvNext-T was implemented without
any modifications. The original design of ConvNeXt-T aggressively reduced the feature map
size to 1/32 of the original image size with heavy downsampling. The ConvNeXt-T architec-
ture was modified so that the minimum feature map size on the encoder side after the final
downsampling step would be 1/8 of the input image size. Additionally, deeper networks have
a large number of hyperparameters and therefore require a large number of training images
for improved generalization of the model. In agricultural situation where smaller dataset size is
common, these networks are prone to overfitting [29], [36]. Hence, the stage computation of
the original ConvNext-T was modified from 3 : 3 : 9 : 3 and the feature map dimensions of
(96, 192, 384, 768) to 1 : 1 : 3 : 1 : 1 with the feature map dimension of (32, 64, 128, 256, 512).
Since the residual blocks in AgRegNet in each stage were reduced by a factor of 3, an additional
stage was added to the aggregate and enhance the features in stage4 without downsampling.

9
While processing the feature maps from stage4 to stage5, dilated convolutions were used, which
increases the receptive field, and has shown improved performance in semantic segmentation
tasks while preserving the input feature size [37]. For the given three-channel input RGB images
with 1024(W) × 768(H) pixel resolutions, the output feature map resolution after stage5 would
be 128(W/8) × 96(H/8) with 512 channels (see Fig. 2). Apart from the modification in stage
computation ratio and corresponding feature map dimensions, other design choices were kept
similar to the original ConvNeXt-T [17]. With the proposed modification, the size of the proposed
AgRegNet was substantially reduced with a total of 9.45M trainable parameters compared to the
original ConvNeXt-T with 29M parameters.
2) Skip Connections and Feature Enhancement: As the proposed network leveraged the
ConvNeXt-T and U-Net design, the skip connections were presented in two phases. The first set
of skip connections were within the encoder module residual connection (see Fig. 3b) while the
second skip connection spanned from each stage output of the encoder to the decoder module.
Skip connections were commonly used as they improve detection and segmentation performance
by propagating the low-level features to deeper layers while reducing the degradation problem. In
this work, the feature map propagated via skip connection was further enhanced by introducing
Convolutional Block Attention Module (CBAM) proposed by [35] (see Fig. 3a). CBAM acted
as a feature enhancement and suppression gate in both spatial and channel dimensions. In
CBAM, the Channel Attention Module (CAM) and Spatial Attention Module (SAM) were
+
Depthwise Conv 7x7
Conv 1 x 1
CBAM
Conv 1 x 1
LN
GELU
CAM
x
x
a)
b)
SAM
C x H x W
C x H x W
C x 1 x 1
1 x H x W
Fig. 3: a) Convolutional Block Attention Module (CBAM) [35]. ⊗represents elementwise
multiplication; and b) Residual connection block in proposed modified ConvNeXt-T architecture

10
arranged sequentially, and both leveraged average-pool and max-pool operations for initial feature
extraction. Let X ∈RC×H×W represent the input feature map, the CAM and SAM for CBAM
were defined as
MCAM = σ(MLP(AvgPool(X)) + MLP(MaxPool(X)))
(3)
MSAM = σ(f7×7(Concat(AvgPool(X), MaxPool(X)))
(4)
Where, MCAM ∈RC×1×1, and MSAM ∈R1×H×W. MLP is multi-layer perceptron with one
hidden layer, σ is the Sigmoid activation function, f 7×7 is the convolution layer with filter size
7.
3) Backend Module: The backend module worked as a post-processing operator to accumulate
and highlight the feature information, and to compute the density map. Since the output feature
map from the stage5 computation was equal to the size of the output feature map of stage4,
the feature maps were simply passed through a 1x1 convolution layer before concatenation.
In the following decoder processing, the feature maps were combined via a concatenation,
followed by a set of convolution operations (see Fig. 4). Since each stage of the encoder
layer, except the last stage, was reduced to 1/2 of the size of the previous stage, feature maps
were upsampled by factor of 2 before concatenating in the decoder side. After concatenation,
the feature information was further processed via convolution, normalization, and activation
layers. Let, Conv2d(Ci, Co, k, s, p, d) represents 2d convolution with input channels Ci, out-
put channels Co, kernel size k, stride s, padding p, and dilation rate d. The decoder module
after current layer concatenation and before immediate future layer concatenation is given by
[Conv2d(Ci = dimcat, Co = dimcat, k = 3, p = drate, d = drate), Conv2d(Ci = dimcat, Co =
dimcat
2
, k = 3, p = drate, d = drate), LN, GELU]. In this work, we set the dilation rate to 2.
+
CBAM
Conv2d(dimcat, dimcat, 3, 1, 2, 2)
Conv2d(dimcat, dimcat/2, 3, 1, 2, 2)
LN,GELU
Upsampler
Encoder
Fig. 4: Featuremap processing in each decoder block
4) Segmentation and Density Map Generation: The output of the decoder section in the
backend module was further processed to generate two outputs that can be used to optimize the
network using backpropagation. The segmentation map was similar to the semantic segmentation

11
approach, which classified all the pixels into two classes: flower or fruit and the background.
Given the input channels (Ci), the segmentation map was generated by [Conv2d(Ci, Ci, k =
3, p = drate, d = drate), Conv2d(Ci, Co = 1, k = 3, p = drate, d = drate), Sigmoid], where
drate = 2. The output segmentation map acted as the feature refinement gate for the density
estimation network. The output feature map of the segmentation-based refinement pipeline was
the elementwise multiplication of the segmentation map and the feature map to be refined.
After refinement, the final density map was created by [Conv2d(Ci, Ci, k = 3, p = drate, d =
drate), Conv2d(Ci, Co = 1, k = 3, p = drate, d = drate)], where drate = 2.
C. Count Estimation and Object Localization
Object count was estimated by summing up the pixel intensity values of the density map. The
predicted density map (predden) was post-processed to estimate the flower and fruit location.
Algorithm 1 was developed to estimate the flower and fruit centroid in the prediction map and
associate the predicted centroids (predpeak) with the ground truth centroids (gtpeak). The density
map estimated the likelihood that a pixel represented a flower or fruit. Hence, the higher the
pixel intensity value, the greater the chances that a pixel is object centroid. For flower and fruit
localization, the local peaks in the predicted density map were estimated using inbuilt scikit −
image package function peak local max. Once the local peaks or centroid of the predicted
flower and fruit were estimated, a bipartite graph was created using the Euclidean distance
between the ground truth and predicted centroids as a cost function. Finally, the Hungarian
algorithm was used to perform one-to-one matching between the ground truth and predicted
centroids minimizing the cost.
D. Loss Function
The network loss was computed by combining the Dice loss for the segmentation map and
Mean Squared Error (MSE) loss for the density map. In this work, the Dice coefficient [38]
was selected as a segmentation optimization metric since it has shown robust performance in
handling class imbalance problems compared to Binary Cross Entropy loss. Class imbalance was
common in the flower and fruit dataset datasets where objects of interest occupy a substantially
lower number of pixels compared to the background. The Dice coefficient is given as

12
Algorithm 1 Flower and fruit localization
Input: predden, gtpeak
Output: Association of gtpeak and predpeak
1: function ESTIMATEGROUNDPREDICTLOCPAIR
2:
Minimum distance separating peaks (dmin) ←2
3:
predpeak ←peak local max(predden, dmin)
4:
N ←length (gtpeak), M ←length (predpeak)
5:
Cost (C) ←


0.0
. . .
0.0
...
...
...
0.0
. . .
0.0


N×M
6:
for i ←1 to N do
7:
for j ←1 to M do
8:
C[i][j] ←Eucl.(gtpeak[i], predpeak[j])
9:
(gtpeakindex, predpeakindex) ←bipartite match(C)
10:
return gtpeakindex, predpeakindex
Dcoeff =
2 PN
i=1 psegigsegi
PN
i=1 p2
segi + PN
i=1 g2
segi
(5)
where i ∈N; N = H × W, and gseg and pseg are the ground truth and predicted binary
segmentation maps. The segmentation loss was computed as Lseg = 1 −Dcoeff. The density
map estimation was optimized using Mean Squared Error (MSE) loss given as
Lreg = 1
N
N
X
i=1
(gden −pden)2
(6)
The total loss (Lloss) was computed as Lloss = Lden + αLseg. Where α = 0.01 was the scaling
parameter computed empirically.
IV. EXPERIMENTAL EVALUATION
A. Dataset
The experimental evaluation consisted of two datasets with apple flowers and apples (see Table
I). Apple flower images were collected over two growing seasons (2018 and 2019) using different

13
imaging sensors. Images were collected from three commercial apple orchards in Washington,
USA, with multiple varieties grown in fruiting wall canopy architecture. Trees were trained and
pruned to create narrow 2D structures using vertical or V-shaped trellis systems in fruiting wall
architectures. The flower dataset included images of early to late phases of the flower blooming
in three apple varieties: Scifresh (Vertical Fruiting Wall), Envi (V trellis), and HoneyCrisp (V
trellis). Additionally, the apple fruit dataset publicly released by [7] as a part of a multi-class
fruit classification experiment was annotated and used. The fruit dataset consisted of images of
800 harvest-ready apple canopies in vertical fruiting wall architecture [7]. Images with similar
appearances were identified using Structural Similarity Index Measure (SSIM) greater than 95%,
which were later removed by human verification resulting in 630 unique apple canopy images
[39]. For experimental evaluation, each dataset was divided into a training set (75%) and a test
set (25%). The validation dataset was obtained by randomly cropping the test images.
TABLE I: Dataset used in this study; Images were acquired from multiple apple varieties in
different architectures and imaging sensors.
Dataset
#
Sensors(Resolution)
Statistics
Images
Objects Min/Max Avg
Apple Flower
325
ZED2,Kinect V2 (1920 × 1080) 43031
4/434
132
Sony RX100 (5472 × 3648)
Apple Fruit [7]
630
Kinect V2 (1920 × 1080)
34404
10/121
55
B. Model Training
The first four stages of the modified ConvNeXt-T network were initialized using a pre-trained
ConvNeXt-T model. The rest of the layers were randomly initialized using a Gaussian distribution
with a mean of 0 and a standard deviation of 0.01. The network was trained with Adam optimizer
using a learning rate of 0.0004 and a learning rate decay rate of 0.995 at each epoch. Network
training was conducted for up to 200 epochs using the PyTorch library using two Nvidia Titan
X 12 GB GPUs. For all datasets, the training and test sets were reshaped to 1024(W)×768(H),
while the validation set was obtained by randomly cropping test set images to 768(W)×576(H).
C. Performance Metrics
The density maps’ quality was evaluated using SSIM and Peak Signal to Noise Ratio (PSNR)
[39]. SSIM metric computed the similarity between two images in terms of the closeness of mean

14
luminance, contrast, and structure. For structure comparison, the correlation between ground truth
and the predicted density map was estimated by computing the covariance matrix [39].PSNR,
on the other hand, took into account the mean square error between the ground truth and the
predicted density maps at a pixel level. A lower MSE value corresponded to a lower numerical
difference between the image pixels resulting in a larger PSNR value. For count evaluation,
Mean Absolute Error (MAE) and Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE) were used.
MAE = 1
N
N
X
i=1
|Cpred
i
−Cgt
i |
(7)
RMSE =
v
u
u
t 1
N
N
X
i=1
|Cpred
i
−Cgt
i |
2
(8)
Where N was the total number of images in the test set. Cpred
i
was predicted count, and
Cgt
i
was ground truth count. To qualitatively evaluate the localization results, precision and
recall metrics were estimated. Given the matched ground truth and predicted centroids, a cutoff
value (T) was used to determine whether the matched centroids were correctly associated. The
following criteria were used to evaluate the predicted centroids.
predpeak ∈





TruePositive,
if d(gtpeak, predpeak) ≤T
FalsePositive,
otherwise
(9)
The Average Precision (AP) and Average Recall (AR) were computed by varying the cutoff
threshold T. Value of T ranged from σf to 2.2σf with an increment of 1. σf was the default
standard deviation of the Gaussian kernel used to create the ground truth density map. Further-
more, d(gtpeak, predpeak) was the Euclidean distance between the ground truth and the predicted
peak location.
V. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
A. Density Map Evaluation
The proposed network was compared with different density map estimation approaches in
terms of PSNR, and SSIM [39]. Among the all evaluated approaches the proposed approach
was lightweight with 9.45M total trainable parameters. The following were some of the popular
approaches compared with the proposed approach.

15
(a) Canopy images
(b) Ground truth
(c) AgRegNet (Ours)
(d) CSRNet
(e) SCAR
Fig. 5: Qualitative comparison of the density maps of the proposed AgRegNet with other
approaches
• CSRNet2 [13]: CSRNet, a popular population estimation method, used VGG-16 as the
backbone and leveraged dilated convolution for performance improvement, followed by
backend convolution block to compute density map.
• SFCN 3 [14]: SFCN used a spatial fully convolution neural network stacked on the top of
the ResNet101 backbone followed by a regression layer to compute the density map.
• SCAR4 [15]: SCAR used VGG16 backbone and Spatial and Channel Attention module
similar to one used by [40], [41]
Table II shows the quantitative comparison of the generated density maps for the apple flower
and fruit dataset. Our proposed approach showed competitive performance, often outperforming
other approaches with higher PSNR (except SCAR for Apple Fruit Dataset) and SSIM values
2https://github.com/leeyeehoo/CSRNet-pytorch
3https://github.com/gjy3035/GCC-SFCN
4https://github.com/gjy3035/SCAR

16
TABLE II: Comparison of PSNR and SSIM of the proposed approach with different density
map estimation methods.
Method
Apple Flower
Apple Fruit [7]
PSNR
SSIM
PSNR
SSIM
CSRNet [13]
24.6
0.845
22.1
0.734
SFCN [14]
28.5
0.912
22.6
0.901
SCAR [15]
27.8
0.910
24.7
0.908
AgRegNet (Ours)
31.2
0.938
24.1
0.910
inferring a greater similarity between the ground truth and generated density maps. The generated
density maps were 93.8% and 91.0% similar to the ground truth density map in terms of
luminance, contrast, and structure for the flower and fruit datasets, respectively. Fig. 5 shows
a representative density maps for qualitative evaluation. The generated density maps from the
proposed approach showed better localization of flower and fruit regions. The advantage of the
proposed approach is more prominent in the flower images. In spite of the fact that the flowers are
densely located in clusters with a high flower-to-flower occlusion, the individual flower regions
from the proposed approach were separated with finer details compared to other approaches.
We argue this is because of the way feature maps were processed, especially in the decoder
section. First, the skip connection from the encoder to the decoder section allowed the low-level
feature transfer to the deeper layers, which might have been lost otherwise due to processing
and downsampling. Second, similar to the way feature maps were reduced in half in size at
each stage in each ConvNeXt - T encoder, the feature maps were progressively up-sampled,
concatenated, and processed in the decoder block with feature size at the current sub-block
twice the size of the immediate past sub-block. In the case of CSRNet, the feature maps were
directly upsampled by a factor of 8 to get the final density map which could be the reason for the
non-smooth density map. Third, the segmentation map was helpful in gatekeeping to enhance
the relevant features while setting up boundaries for individual flowers and fruits. Furthermore,
the proposed approach showed robustness to suppress background objects (flowers/fruits in the
immediate back row) that have a similar appearance to the object of interest. We argue that the
result is a combined effect of the attention module and segmentation branch to enhance relevant
features while suppressing background features.
Fig. 6 shows a more detailed (closeup) view of the generated density maps overlayed on top of

17
Fig. 6: Different flower fruit density estimation scenarios; a) Most of the clusters were in full
bloom, although there were some clusters that only have the King Flower open; b) Early flowering
stage with the majority of the flowers not yet open; c) Full bloom clusters and un-opened clusters
in same canopy; d) V-trellised system with background flowers in estimated density map; e)
Apple fruit image with majority of space occupied by background objects; and f) Illustration of
successful (yellow rectangle) and unsuccessful (red rectangle) cases of the proposed approach
in apple fruit dataset density estimation.
the canopy images. The Flower dataset was complex compared to the fruit dataset. Regardless of
the maturity and color, all fruits appear similar in appearance, sharing similar feature information.
However, feature similarity might not be the case in the flowering stage because of the flowering
time. The flowering time substantially varies due to the microclimate that could be generated
within the canopy due to the closeness to the ground, light interception, irrigation system, and

18
biological variability. Hence flowers might be in full bloom in some clusters while the majority
of flowers might be unopened or only the King Flower (Flower that blooms first within flower
cluster) in other clusters. Fig. 6a shows the case where the King Flower was open while the lateral
flowers within the cluster were still open. Fig. 6b is the representative case where the majority of
flowers were not in bloom. Fig. 6c shows the case where flowers in some canopy sections were
in full bloom but not in others. Since the proposed approach relies on point annotation, it showed
robustness in extracting the features and locating the flowers irrespective of their blooming stage
and variability in appearance. However, it is worth noting that the network also missed some of
the visible full bloom flowers near the trunk in Fig. 6c.The majority flowers in the background
rows were discarded by the network. However, in a few cases (see Fig. 6d), the background
flowers were also present in the estimated density map. Such a case was more prominent in the
V-trellised system since canopies were in an inverted pyramid shape, and background canopies
were much closer compared to 2D fruiting wall architecture with vertical canopies.
On the other hand, the inclusion of background apples was rarely observed in the fruit
dataset. Fig. 6e shows the case where the majority of the image was covered by the background
information. Fig. 6f shows the capability and weakness of the regression-based approach. On the
left side (yellow rectangle) of Fig. 6f, the apples were hardly visible because of the obstruction
caused by the pipe and the branches. Irrespective of the extent of occlusion, the network was
able to localize the obstructed apples. The center part of Fig. 6f (red rectangle) shows a case that
a side branch divided an apple into three sections. The network mistakenly generated a density
map as if three separate apples were present in the canopy. Based on the results in the large
number of apple images tested in this work, such cases were few and might have a low impact
on overall density estimation and count results as the estimated fruit density map has a 91.0%
similarity to the ground truth map.
B. Flower and Fruit Counting
The proposed approach showed promising results for density estimation of apples and apple
flowers regardless of the flowering stage and appearance, which was also reflected in the count
evaluation (Table III). The proposed AgRegNet, while being lightweight with the least number
of parameters (9.45M), showed superior performance compared to all evaluated approaches in
the complicated dense flower image dataset with the highest PSNR (31.2) and SSIM (0.938) to
estimate density map and lowest MAE (18.1) and RMSE (23.8) values to estimate the count.

19
Fig. 7: Visualization of flower fruit localization results for flowers and fruits trained in different
training architecture. Top-Left: 2D Fruiting Wall (full bloom), Bottom-Left V-trellised (full
bloom), Top-Right: V-trellised architecture (unopened flowers), Bottom-Right: 2D Fruiting Wall
(Fruits). Color-coded dots represent different ground truths and predicted locations based on their
classification designation. Red: ground truth, Blue: True Positive, Magenta: False Negative, and
Yellow: False positive. Cyan: Line connecting ground truth to the true positive.
Furthermore, it achieved competitive performance in the fruit image dataset with MAE and
RMSE of 3.1 and 4.0, respectively. The percentage MAE

%MAE =
MAE
#Avg.flower/fruit ∗100%

for the proposed AgRegNet was 5.6% for fruit data and 13.7% for the flower dataset with average
fruit and flower per image of 48 and 125 respectively. It is worth noting that remarkably better
results were achieved in the fruit dataset compared to the flower dataset. Although fruits were
located in clusters, the cluster size was substantially smaller, allowing larger spatial separation
between the fruits leading to better-localized density maps and count results. As discussed earlier,
the flower dataset was complex because the tightly aligned clusters with flowers in different
blooming stages had different feature information.

20
TABLE III: Comparison of MAE and RMSE of the proposed approach with different flower and
fruit counting approaches.
Method
Apple Flower
Apple Fruit [7]
MAE
RMSE
MAE
RMSE
CSRNet [13]
20.9
29.2
5.6
7.1
SFCN [14]
35.8
52.6
3.9
5.1
SCAR [15]
18.4
25.6
4.4
6.1
Farjon et al. (DRN)5 [31]
25.7
38.0
2.4
3.2
AgRegNet (Ours)
18.1
23.8
3.1
4.0
a) Input Image
b) Ground Truth
c) Mod.ConvNeXt
d) Mod.ConvNeXt+CBAM
e) Mod.ConvNeXt+Seg.
f) Mod.ConvNeXt+CBAM+Seg.
Fig. 8: Ablation experiments of the proposed AgRegNet to evaluate the contribution of each
module in density map and count estimation. The addition of CBAM and the segmentation
branch helped improve the density map estimation and counting accuracy.
C. Flower and Fruit Localization
In order to localize the flower and fruit centroid, the density maps were post-processed as
per Algorithm 1 (see Section III C). The one-to-one matching between the ground truth and the
predicted flower and fruit centroids was analyzed using the mean Average Precision (mAP) and
mean Average Recall (mAR) metrics. The mean Average Precision (mAP) and mean Average
Recall (mAR) metrics was obtained by averaging the AP and AR values of each image computed

21
by varying the cutoff threshold σf to 2.2σf with an increment of 1 (see Section IV c). The cutoff
threshold played a role analogous to the Intersection over Union (IoU) threshold in a detection-
based approach. The mAP and mAR values for the fruit dataset were greater than the same
for the flower dataset indicating better fruit localization capability with fewer false positive and
false negative locations. Numerically, the mAP and mAR values for the fruit dataset were 0.93
and 0.89 respectively, while the same were 0.81 and 0.79 for the flower dataset (see Table IV).
However, it is worth noting that the localization result depended on the generated density map,
and the post-processing algorithms used to detect peak and one-to-one matching of the estimated
centroids. Fig. 7 visualizes the localization results. The results were promising as the majority
of the localized flower and fruit centroids from the proposed approach were correctly associated
with the ground truth centroids in images acquired from a commercial orchard.
TABLE IV: Mean Average Precision (mAP) and Average Recall (mAR) achieved by the proposed
approach in flower and fruit localization
Method
Apple Flower
Apple Fruit [7]
mAP
mAR
mAP
mAR
AgRegNet (Ours)
0.81
0.79
0.93
0.89
D. Ablation Experiments
To investigate the effect of different modules on the performance of the proposed network
model, ablation studies were conducted in four different configurations with the Apple Flower
dataset. The four configurations used were:
• Mod.ConvNeXt-T: Modified ConvNext-T with a U shape and skip connection from the
encoder to the decoder section.
• Mod.ConvNeXt-T+CBAM: Modified ConvNeXt-T with CBAM attention connected in skip
connection within each stage and skip connection from the encoder to decoder.
• Mod.ConvNeXt-T+Seg.: Modified ConvNeXt-T with segmentation branch as output in
addition to density estimation branch.
• Mod.ConvNeXt-T+CBAM+Seg.: The proposed AgRegNet model.
Table V shows that the addition of the CBAM and segmentation module showed improved
performance of modified ConvNeXt - T. Fig. 8 shows the progressive refinement of generated

22
TABLE V: Ablation experiment of the proposed approach to evaluate the contribution of each
module in density map and count estimation.
Method
MAE
MSE
PSNR
SSIM
Mod.ConvNeXt-T
27.7
37.2
29.8
0.841
Mod.ConvNeXt-T+CBAM
25.4
36.3
30.0
0.855
Mod.ConvNeXt-T+Seg.
20.2
29.3
31.1
0.931
Mod.ConvNeXt-T+CBAM+Seg.
18.1
23.8
31.2
0.938
density map with the addition of different modules. The modified ConvNeXt - T module suffered
from high interference from the background objects, which was reduced to some extent by
CBAM. The SSIM value of the modified ConvNeXt - T was 0.841, inferring 84.1% similarity
between the ground truth and the predicted density map. It was also observed that better density
map estimation inferred better localization capability, but it did not necessarily mean increased
counting accuracy. Both CBAM and segmentation branches helped enhance the relevant features
while suppressing the irrelevant background features. However, quantitative result showed that
the effect of the segmentation branch in improving the density map and count was substantially
higher compared to CBAM. The addition of the segmentation branch reduced the MAE and
RMSE count by 27.1% and 21.2% while improving the density map SSIM by 10.7% compared
to the Mod. ConvNeXt - T. On the other hand, the addition of CBAM reduced the MAE and
RMSE by 8.3% and 2.4% while improving the density map SSIM by 1.6% compared to the Mod.
ConvNeXt - T. As shown in Table V, the addition of the CBAM module in Mod. ConvNeXt -
T with segmentation branch improved the system performance by a nominal value.
E. Practical Applications
With the simpler annotation technique supporting the generation of a larger training dataset
in different orchard environments, and a lighter model structure, the proposed approach is
expected to be more robust and practically applicable to various orchard operations. The proposed
approach, when used for fruit counting, could be employed for crop-load estimation and yield
estimation in commercial orchards. Fruit count provides yield estimation information allowing
efficient and timely management of harvesting resources and developing harvesting strategies.
Flower counting is also considered one of the earliest markers of crop yield in a given season.
Flower density estimation, localization, and count information could be used for optimizing the

23
currently existing flower thinning strategies using chemical and mechanical thinning approaches
for targeted flower thinning applications. Furthermore, for robotic blossom thinning, flower
cluster segmentation and flower count information can be combined to perform targeted selective
flower thinning en masse such that a proportion of flower could be removed. Furthermore,
the proposed approach offers simpler and more effective flower density estimation to optimize
chemical thinning by localizing and counting individual flowers instead of approaches involving
cluster detection [1] and segmentation [2].
Different studies have been reported for flower cluster segmentation in apples [1], [11],
[19], [20]. Additionally, it would be more practical to segment individual flower clusters and
estimate the number of flowers within each cluster to thin excess flowers en masse instead
of removing individual flowers as removal of individual flowers would be time-consuming and
highly complicated for a robotic system to operate in a constrained working space. As mentioned
before, the proposed AgRegNet is lightweight, with a small number of trainable parameters
(9.45M), and is suitable for evolving but still limited image datasets prevalent in agriculture.
Because of its small size, AgRegNet could be employed in light computation devices such
as cell phones. Other compared approaches have a large number of training parameters (e.g.
CSRNet - 16.26M by [13], and DRN - 27.32M by [31]). Furthermore, the inference time of the
proposed approach is substantially lower (14.2 milliseconds) compared to Mask R-CNN (238
milliseconds) employed in the same system for flower cluster detection and segmentation [11],
which improves practical adoption of the proposed model to real-time field operations.
It is noted that the images used in this work were single front view shots which might
not display all the flowers/fruits present in the canopy due to the occlusion and limited field
of view of the camera. Therefore, the robustness of the proposed approach could be further
improved by leveraging multi-view images including the images from both sides of the canopy,
using illumination invariant active lighting system [42], and eliminating unnecessary background
objects via depth filtering. We also expect that increasing the number of annotated images will
benefit the model for density map estimation and counting in varying orchard conditions and
structures.

24
VI. CONCLUSION
In this article, a segmentation-assisted regression-based approach for flower and fruit density
estimation, counting, and localization in an unstructured orchard environment was presented.
Experiments were conducted in the apple flower and fruit datasets to evaluate the network
accuracy. Through this study, the following conclusions were drawn.
• Object density estimation, localization, and counting in agricultural fields can be simplified
using a regression-based deep learning approach with point annotations in RGB images
without explicit detection. The proposed approach correctly localized the majority of the
flower (mAP=0.81, mAR=0.79) and fruit (mAP=0.93, mAR=0.89) centroids without precise
object detection based on bounding box or polygon annotation.
• Proposed AgRegNet showed superior performance in generating well-localized density maps
compared to CSRNet, SFCN, and SCAR with high SSIM for flower (SSIM=0.94) and
fruit (SSIM=0.91) datasets. For apple flower counting, the proposed approach surpassed
CSRNet, SFCN, SCAR and DRN with the lowest MAE of 18.1 (percentage Mean Absolute
Error=13.7%) and RMSE of 23.8. While for the fruit dataset, the proposed approach showed
competitive performance with MAE of 3.1 (percentage Mean Absolute Error=5.6%) and
RMSE of 4.0 against DRN, performing best with MAE of 2.4 and RMSE of 3.2.
• Incorporation of the segmentation branch and attention mechanism was instrumental in
improving the robustness to discard background objects and improving the accuracy. With
the addition of a segmentation branch the MAE and RMSE of Mod. ConvNeXt - T reduced
respectively by 27.1% and 21.2% while improving the SSIM of the density map by 10.7%.
Even though the addition of CBAM did not enhance the outcome of the Mod. ConvNeXt -
T compared to the same with the segmentation branch, the performance improvement was
beneficial.
The results showed that the proposed technique is promising with direct practical applications
for growers and is expected to be an essential step towards automating and streamlining flower
thinning, crop-load estimation, and yield prediction in the specialty crop production industry.
We will continue to work on improving the generalizability of the proposed method by further
improving it algorithmically and by including images from multiple canopy views and wider
varieties of fruit and vegetables.

25
REFERENCES
[1] G. Farjon, O. Krikeb, A. B. Hillel, and V. Alchanatis, “Detection and counting of flowers on apple trees for better chemical
thinning decisions,” Precision Agriculture, pp. 1–19, 2019.
[2] X. A. Wang, J. Tang, and M. Whitty, “Side-view apple flower mapping using edge-based fully convolutional networks for
variable rate chemical thinning,” Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, vol. 178, p. 105673, 2020.
[3] A. Gongal, A. Silwal, S. Amatya, M. Karkee, Q. Zhang, and K. Lewis, “Apple crop-load estimation with over-the-row
machine vision system,” Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, vol. 120, pp. 26–35, 2016.
[4] S. B. Sulistyo, D. Wu, W. L. Woo, S. S. Dlay, and B. Gao, “Computational deep intelligence vision sensing for nutrient
content estimation in agricultural automation,” IEEE Transactions on Automation Science and Engineering, vol. 15, no. 3,
pp. 1243–1257, 2017.
[5] D. Zermas, H. J. Nelson, P. Stanitsas, V. Morellas, D. J. Mulla, and N. Papanikolopoulos, “A methodology for the detection
of nitrogen deficiency in corn fields using high-resolution rgb imagery,” IEEE Transactions on Automation Science and
Engineering, 2020.
[6] Q. H. Cap, H. Uga, S. Kagiwada, and H. Iyatomi, “Leafgan: An effective data augmentation method for practical plant
disease diagnosis,” IEEE Transactions on Automation Science and Engineering, 2020.
[7] F. Gao, L. Fu, X. Zhang, Y. Majeed, R. Li, M. Karkee, and Q. Zhang, “Multi-class fruit-on-plant detection for apple in
snap system using faster r-cnn,” Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, vol. 176, p. 105634, 2020.
[8] S. Wan and S. Goudos, “Faster r-cnn for multi-class fruit detection using a robotic vision system,” Computer Networks,
vol. 168, p. 107036, 2020.
[9] Y. Tian, G. Yang, Z. Wang, H. Wang, E. Li, and Z. Liang, “Apple detection during different growth stages in orchards
using the improved yolo-v3 model,” Computers and electronics in agriculture, vol. 157, pp. 417–426, 2019.
[10] J. Gen´e-Mola, V. Vilaplana, J. R. Rosell-Polo, J.-R. Morros, J. Ruiz-Hidalgo, and E. Gregorio, “Multi-modal deep learning
for fuji apple detection using rgb-d cameras and their radiometric capabilities,” Computers and electronics in agriculture,
vol. 162, pp. 689–698, 2019.
[11] U. Bhattarai, S. Bhusal, Y. Majeed, and M. Karkee, “Automatic blossom detection in apple trees using deep learning,”
IFAC-PapersOnLine, vol. 53, no. 2, pp. 15 810–15 815, 2020.
[12] Y. Tian, G. Yang, Z. Wang, E. Li, and Z. Liang, “Instance segmentation of apple flowers using the improved mask r–cnn
model,” Biosystems Engineering, vol. 193, pp. 264–278, 2020.
[13] Y. Li, X. Zhang, and D. Chen, “Csrnet: Dilated convolutional neural networks for understanding the highly congested
scenes,” in Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), June 2018.
[14] Q. Wang, J. Gao, W. Lin, and Y. Yuan, “Learning from synthetic data for crowd counting in the wild,” in Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2019, pp. 8198–8207.
[15] J. Gao, Q. Wang, and Y. Yuan, “Scar: Spatial-/channel-wise attention regression networks for crowd counting,” Neurocom-
puting, vol. 363, pp. 1–8, 2019.
[16] O. Ronneberger, P. Fischer, and T. Brox, “U-net: Convolutional networks for biomedical image segmentation,” in Medical
Image Computing and Computer-Assisted Intervention–MICCAI 2015: 18th International Conference, Munich, Germany,
October 5-9, 2015, Proceedings, Part III 18.
Springer, 2015, pp. 234–241.
[17] Z. Liu, H. Mao, C.-Y. Wu, C. Feichtenhofer, T. Darrell, and S. Xie, “A convnet for the 2020s,” in Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2022, pp. 11 976–11 986.
[18] A. Krizhevsky, I. Sutskever, and G. E. Hinton, “Imagenet classification with deep convolutional neural networks,”
Communications of the ACM, vol. 60, no. 6, pp. 84–90, 2017.

26
[19] P. A. Dias, A. Tabb, and H. Medeiros, “Apple flower detection using deep convolutional networks,” Computers in Industry,
vol. 99, pp. 17–28, 2018.
[20] ——, “Multispecies fruit flower detection using a refined semantic segmentation network,” IEEE Robotics and Automation
Letters, vol. 3, no. 4, pp. 3003–3010, 2018.
[21] S. Bargoti and J. P. Underwood, “Image segmentation for fruit detection and yield estimation in apple orchards,” Journal
of Field Robotics, vol. 34, no. 6, pp. 1039–1060, 2017.
[22] S. Ren, K. He, R. Girshick, and J. Sun, “Faster r-cnn: Towards real-time object detection with region proposal networks,”
Advances in neural information processing systems, vol. 28, 2015.
[23] K. He, G. Gkioxari, P. Doll´ar, and R. Girshick, “Mask r-cnn,” in Proceedings of the IEEE international conference on
computer vision, 2017, pp. 2961–2969.
[24] J. Redmon, S. Divvala, R. Girshick, and A. Farhadi, “You only look once: Unified, real-time object detection,” in
Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, 2016, pp. 779–788.
[25] J. Gen´e-Mola, R. Sanz-Cortiella, J. R. Rosell-Polo, J.-R. Morros, J. Ruiz-Hidalgo, V. Vilaplana, and E. Gregorio, “Fruit
detection and 3d location using instance segmentation neural networks and structure-from-motion photogrammetry,”
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, vol. 169, p. 105165, 2020.
[26] S. W. Chen, S. S. Shivakumar, S. Dcunha, J. Das, E. Okon, C. Qu, C. J. Taylor, and V. Kumar, “Counting apples and
oranges with deep learning: A data-driven approach,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, vol. 2, no. 2, pp. 781–788,
2017.
[27] N. H¨ani, P. Roy, and V. Isler, “Apple counting using convolutional neural networks,” in 2018 IEEE/RSJ International
Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS).
IEEE, 2018, pp. 2559–2565.
[28] ——, “A comparative study of fruit detection and counting methods for yield mapping in apple orchards,” Journal of Field
Robotics, vol. 37, no. 2, pp. 263–282, 2020.
[29] A. S. Gomez, E. Aptoula, S. Parsons, and P. Bosilj, “Deep regression versus detection for counting in robotic phenotyping,”
IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, vol. 6, no. 2, pp. 2902–2907, 2021.
[30] J. Huang, V. Rathod, C. Sun, M. Zhu, A. Korattikara, A. Fathi, I. Fischer, Z. Wojna, Y. Song, S. Guadarrama et al.,
“Speed/accuracy trade-offs for modern convolutional object detectors,” in Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer
vision and pattern recognition, 2017, pp. 7310–7311.
[31] G. Farjon, Y. Itzhaky, F. Khoroshevsky, and A. Bar-Hillel, “Leaf counting: Fusing network components for improved
accuracy,” Frontiers in Plant Science, vol. 12, p. 575751, 2021.
[32] M. Rahnemoonfar and C. Sheppard, “Deep count: fruit counting based on deep simulated learning,” Sensors, vol. 17, no. 4,
p. 905, 2017.
[33] U. Bhattarai and M. Karkee, “A weakly-supervised approach for flower/fruit counting in apple orchards,” Computers in
Industry, vol. 138, p. 103635, 2022.
[34] V. Lempitsky and A. Zisserman, “Learning to count objects in images,” in Advances in neural information processing
systems, 2010, pp. 1324–1332.
[35] S. Woo, J. Park, J.-Y. Lee, and I. S. Kweon, “Cbam: Convolutional block attention module,” in Proceedings of the European
conference on computer vision (ECCV), 2018, pp. 3–19.
[36] M. M. Bejani and M. Ghatee, “A systematic review on overfitting control in shallow and deep neural networks,” Artificial
Intelligence Review, pp. 1–48, 2021.
[37] F. Yu and V. Koltun, “Multi-scale context aggregation by dilated convolutions,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1511.07122, 2015.
[38] F. Milletari, N. Navab, and S.-A. Ahmadi, “V-net: Fully convolutional neural networks for volumetric medical image
segmentation,” in 2016 fourth international conference on 3D vision (3DV).
IEEE, 2016, pp. 565–571.

27
[39] A. Hore and D. Ziou, “Image quality metrics: Psnr vs. ssim,” in 2010 20th international conference on pattern recognition.
IEEE, 2010, pp. 2366–2369.
[40] J. Fu, J. Liu, H. Tian, Y. Li, Y. Bao, Z. Fang, and H. Lu, “Dual attention network for scene segmentation,” in Proceedings
of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2019, pp. 3146–3154.
[41] H. Zhang, I. Goodfellow, D. Metaxas, and A. Odena, “Self-attention generative adversarial networks,” in International
Conference on Machine Learning.
PMLR, 2019, pp. 7354–7363.
[42] A. Silwal, T. Parhar, F. Yandun, H. Baweja, and G. Kantor, “A robust illumination-invariant camera system for agricultural
applications,” in 2021 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS).
IEEE, 2021, pp.
3292–3298.
