Tracking and Counting Method for Tomato
Fruits Scouting Robot in Greenhouse
Guanglin Dai, Ling Hu, Pengbo Wang(B), and Jiacheng Rong
School of Mechanical and Electric Engineering, Jiangsu Provincial Key Laboratory of Advanced
Robotics, Soochow University, Suzhou 215123, China
pbwang@suda.edu.cn
Abstract. The quantity of tomatoes is closely related to their yield information,
and a powerful inspection robot that can automatically count tomatoes is urgently
necessary for the hot and harsh environment of greenhouses. With the continu-
ous progress of computer vision technology, the use of deep learning algorithms
for counting tomatoes can greatly improve the inspection speed of the inspection
robot. This paper propose a tomato fruit counting method for greenhouse inspec-
tion robots, which tracks the position of tomatoes in the image by the spatial
displacement information of the robot, while 3D depth ﬁltering can effectively
avoid the interference of background tomatoes on the counting. The main advan-
tages of this method are: (1) it can realize the tracking of bunched fruits and
the counting of single fruits at the same time; (2) it can avoid the interference of
background tomatoes. The experimental results of the greenhouse showed that the
accuracy rates of bunch and single fruit counting were higher than 84% and 86%
respectively, which greatly improved the inspection speed compared with manual
counting and basically meet the counting requirements of the current greenhouse.
Keywords: Greenhouse scouting robot · Tomato tracking and counting ·
YOLOV5
1
Introduction
Tomato is one of the three major world trade vegetables and occupies an important
position in the global vegetable trade. China is the largest tomato producing country in
the world, but the production per unit area in China is very low, which is in contrast to
developed countries. In recent years, in order to increase the yield per unit area of tomato,
it is very important to manage tomatoes scientiﬁcally, in addition to using greenhouse
cultivation. The use of inspection robots to obtain tomato growth data instead of manual
labor can greatly reduce labor costs and improve tomato growing efﬁciency. The number
oftomatoesasanimportantcharacteristicoftomatogrowthprocess,countinggreenhouse
tomatoes can not only reasonably arrange the picking cycle, but also make marketing
plans in advance to improve economic efﬁciency.
With the continuous development of computer vision technology and deep learning
algorithms, robots are gradually used in agricultural scenes to improve crop growing
© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2022
H. Liu et al. (Eds.): ICIRA 2022, LNAI 13455, pp. 60–68, 2022.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-13844-7_6

Tracking and Counting Method for Tomato Fruits Scouting Robot
61
efﬁciencyandreducemanualgrowingcosts[1,2].Theuseofcomputervisiontechnology
instead of the human eye for fruit counting is very widely used in scenes such as orchards
and greenhouses.
Suchet Bargoti [3] et al. at the Field Robotics Centre, University of Sydney, Aus-
tralia presented an image processing framework for fruit detection and counting using
orchard image data,including two feature learning algorithms: multiscale multilayered
perceptrons (MLP) and convolutional neural networks (CNN), ﬁnally achieved the best
detection F1-score of 0.861 with WS detection. Xu Liu [4] et al. from the GRASP lab at
the University of Pennsylvania presented a novel fruit counting pipeline that combines
deep segmentation, frame to frame tracking, and 3D localization to accurately count
visible fruits across a sequence of images, the model had an L1 loss of 203, ﬁnally
achieved an error mean of −0.2% and a standard deviation of 7.8% after the 3D recon-
struction correction step. P.J. Ramos [5] et al. from the National Coffee Research Center
of Colombia proposed a hand-held non-destructive coffee bean counting method, which
can achieve coffee bean counting in some areas through image segmentation algorithms
and edge processing methods, which linked the fruits that were counted automatically
to the ones actually observed with an R2 higher than 0.93 one-to-one. Nicolai Häni [6]
et al. from University of Minnesota proposed a new fruit detection and counting method
based on semantic segmentation and a modular end-to-end system for apple orchard
yield estimation, achieved yield estimation accuracies ranging from 95.56% to 97.83%.
Manya Afonso [7] et al. from Wageningen University used the MASK-RCNN algorithm
to accurately identify tomato fruits and classify their maturity, and found that MASK-
RCNN can learn the depth data of objects, ﬁnally achieved 91% detection accuracy in
a single image. Raymond Kirk [8] et al. from University of Lincoln presented a novel
multi-object, multi-class fruit tracking system to count fruit from image sequences.
In this study, we propose a tomato fruit counting method for a greenhouse inspection
robot, which tracks the position of tomato in the image through the spatial displacement
information of the inspection robot. The method is mainly divided into three steps: (1)
use the trained fruit detection model to identify the bunch of fruits and single fruits in
the picture, and each bunch of fruits will generate an information list; (2) process the
tomato information list and delete duplicate labels; (3) convert the list of information to
the number of tomatoes.
2
Material and Method
2.1
Tomato Sample and Scouting Robot
In this study, the tomato we selected is a cherry tomato named “jiaxina” from nijiawan
greenhouse, Xiangcheng District, Suzhou City, Jiangsu Province. As shown in Fig. 1(a),
the tomatoes are planted in a ridge and its fruit grow in a bunch. After artiﬁcial agronomic
treatment, the mature tomato fruits were in a ﬁxed height range from the ground. There is
a track between the two ridges of tomatoes, which is used for vehicles such as greenhouse
scouting robot and tomato picking robot. As shown in Fig. 1(b), the scouting robot which
we currently use is mainly composed of a depth camera (Realsense D435i), a lifting pole
and a greenhouse track chassis. The lifting rod can meet the inspection requirements of
tomato fruits with different heights. The chassis contains a set of RFID system. When

62
G. Dai et al.
the tags at both ends of the track were read, it can control the opening and closing of the
inspection function. At the same time, the chassis can move on the track at a constant
speed.
(a) Tomato greenhouse                           
(b) Greenhouse scouting robot 
Fig. 1. Tomato greenhouse environment and scouting robot.
2.2
Image Acquisition
The images of tomatoes were acquired by a depth camera mounted on the scouting robot,
and the images consist of RGB images of tomatoes and depth images aligned with them,
and both the color and depth images were 1280 * 720 pixels. Special attention should
be paid to the fact that the position of the camera relative to the scouting robot was
ﬁxed during the scouting robot movement. As shown in Fig. 2, the camera axis was
perpendicular to the monopoly plane, the camera was 500–650 mm away from the ridge
plane, and the height of the camera was 1650 mm above the ground, so that the tomatoes
in the mature were appear exactly within the ﬁeld of view of the camera.
Fig. 2. Position of depth camera.

Tracking and Counting Method for Tomato Fruits Scouting Robot
63
2.3
Tomato Fruit Detection
Yolov5 is a single-stage target detection algorithm, which has been updated in many
iterations and has great superiority in speed and accuracy. In this study we choose
YOLOV5 [9] as the tomato fruit detection algorithm. A sufﬁcient amount of dataset
should be trained before tomato detection, and we used the scouting robot to drive
on the track at a uniform speed (0.1 m/s) and saved color pictures at 5 frames per
second. To meet the diversity of samples, we selected data samples from October 2021
to December 2021 for three time periods: 6:00–8:00 AM, 12:00–14:00 PM, and 16:00–
17:00 PM, which include different weather lighting environments of sunny, cloudy, and
rainy days. After nearly three months of data collection, a total of about 15, 000 images
were obtained, and ﬁnally 3000 images containing different backgrounds and different
fruit ripeness were selected.
In this study we need to train two models, one for the detection of bunches of fruits
and one for the detection of single fruits. The ﬁltered images were labeled twice using
Labelme software, once with the bunch fruit in the image and once with the single fruit
in the image. The labeled images were trained using yolov5. In this study, the ratio of
training set, veriﬁcation set and test set is 1:1:19.
Once the model was trained, we can detect the tomatoes in the greenhouse. As
shown in Fig. 3, the detection of tomatoes was divided into 3 main steps: the ﬁrst step
detects tomato bunches, the second step detects the number of individual fruit in each
bunch, and the third step assigns an information list to each tomato bunch. Finally, we
used the list [frame, ID, x, y, w, h, a, D, s] to mark each tomato bunch detected, frame
represents the number of frames of the current image, the ID represents the total number
of tomato bunches detected from the beginning to the present, x, y, w, h represent the
pixel coordinates of the center point and the length and width of the target rectangle
box obtained from the tomato bunch detected, a represents the number of single fruit
of the current tomato bunch after single detection, D represents the average value of the
depth of each single fruit in the current bunch, and s represents the accumulated distance
traveled by the scouting robot on the track from the beginning of detection to the present.
Fig. 3. Flow chart of tomato fruit detection.

64
G. Dai et al.
The main use of the depth map in the fruit detection process was to ﬁlter the back-
ground mis-detected tomatoes after getting the depth values of bunch and single fruit.
In order to prevent the following tracking error caused by the incomplete fruit of the
tomato bunches at the edge of the image, we set invalid areas on both sides of the image,
if x is less than 100 or greater than 1180, then the list of information obtained will be
deleted.
2.4
Tracking and Counting of Tomato Fruit
After the fruit detection step, the tomatoes detected in each frame of the picture will
correspond to an information list. During the inspection process, the same bunch of
tomatoes may be identiﬁed in multiple frames of the image, which means that a bunch of
tomatoes may correspond to multiple lists. Tracking counting is the process of removing
these duplicate labels. As is shown in Fig. 4, take frame n and frame n + 1 as examples,
at this time, the scouting robot walks sn and sk respectively. It is assumed that three
strings of tomatoes are found in each frame.
Fig. 4. Schematic diagram of tomato tracking.
In this study, we used the information of tomato detection rectangle in the current
frame and the shift information of the robot to predict the position of the rectangle in
the previous frame image, and then the predicted rectangle box and all the rectangle
boxes obtained from the previous frame were calculated as the intersection union ratio
(IOU) [10]. If IOU calculated was within the set threshold, then the information list
corresponding to this rectangle box should be deleted. As shown in Fig. 4, IDi+3 tomatoes
in frame n + 1 should be taken as an example to introduce the prediction process of the
rectangular box.

Tracking and Counting Method for Tomato Fruits Scouting Robot
65
The rectangular box corresponding to the information list of IDi+3 tomato is boxk.
First, converted the pixel coordinates (xk, yk) of the center point of the box to the
coordinates (Xk, Yk) under the camera coordinate system. In Eq. (1) and Eq. (2), cx,cy,fx,
fy are camera internal parameters.
XK = dk ∗xk −cx ∗dk
fx
(1)
Yk = dk ∗yk −cy ∗dk
fy
(2)
The moving distance of the scouting robot from frame n to frame n + 1 is calculated
by the cumulative displacement difference (Eq. (3)). In Eq. (4) and Eq. (5), x′
k and y′
k
respectively represent the pixel coordinates of the center point predicted in frame n of
boxk, ﬁnally, x′
k and y′
k are calculated ( Eq. (6) and Eq. (7)).
s = sk −sn
(3)
XK −s = dk ∗x′
k −cx ∗dk
fx
(4)
Yk = dk ∗y′
k −cy ∗dk
fy
(5)
x′
k = dk ∗sk −s ∗fx
dk
(6)
y′
k = yk
(7)
After predicting the position of boxk in frame n, we calculated the IOU of the pre-
dicted new box′
k and all rectangular boxes of frame n in turn. If the IOU calculated
was greater than 0.8, the information list corresponding to boxk was considered to be a
duplicate list. On the contrary, if the IOU calculated was less than 0.8, the list should
be retained. In order to prevent the tomato in a frame image from being successfully
detected, each list must be calculated with all the information lists in the previous 30
frames until it is considered as a duplicate list.
2.5
Result Output
After patrol inspection, the number of information lists retained is the total number of
tomato bunches, and the sum of value a in each information list is the total number
of single tomato fruit. At the same time, the images of each tomato bunch and the
corresponding information list were saved as patrol inspection record.

66
G. Dai et al.
3
Result and Discussion
As shown in Table 1, in order to verify the reliability of the algorithm, we selected three
tracks in different areas of the greenhouse to count the tomato fruits, and compared the
number of fruits obtained with the actual number of fruits obtained by manual counting.
It was found that the algorithm has high accuracy in tomato fruit counting. From the
experimental results, the accuracy of single fruit counting is lower than that of bunch fruit
counting, which is due to the problem of mutual shading of single fruits. Although the
inspection process can identify single fruits from different angles, the shading between
fruits will still affect the counting.
Table 1. Experimental results of counting tomatoes by described method.
test1
test2
test3
Speed
0.1 m/s
0.1 m/s
0.1 m/s
Actual number of bunch fruits
30
68
86
Number of detected bunch fruits
34
75
98
Accuracy of bunch fruit counting
86.7%
91.2%
87.2%
Actual number of single fruit
356
664
704
Number of single fruit detected
302
586
593
Accuracy of single fruit counting
84.8%
88.3%
84.2%
In addition, we set up a group of comparative experiments, using the current main-
stream crowd counting algorithm (Deepsort) to count the tomatoes in the greenhouse.
Deepsort [11] is a classical multi-target tracking algorithm based on Tracking by Detec-
tion strategy. Its main principles are Hungarian algorithm and Kalman ﬁlter. We used
the color video stream recorded by the inspection robot on the same track at the same
time to do experiments. First, the trained yolov5 model was used to identify the bunch
fruit in each frame of images, then deepsort tracked the position of the bunch fruits in
the image, and the ﬁnal output detection results are shown in Table 2. In the tracking
process, each tracked bunch fruit was given a label. We cut out the bunch fruit rectangle
of the same label for single fruit detection, so that we can get the number of single fruit
of each bunch fruit.
From Table 2, we can ﬁnd that the accuracy of bunch fruits counting of deepsort is
lower than that of Table 1, but the number of detected tomatoes is higher than that of Table
1. The reason is that deepsort does not have the function of deep ﬁltering, and many
background tomatoes are included in the ﬁnal number. Comparing the two counting
methods, it is easy to ﬁnd that the number of bunches of fruit counted is higher than the
actual number. Because the bunch tomatoes were not successfully identiﬁed in several
consecutive frames during the process of being tracked, and when they were identiﬁed
again they were no longer successfully tracked, and then the algorithm deﬁned them as
newly identiﬁed bunches of fruit, so that the number of bunches of fruit is higher than

Tracking and Counting Method for Tomato Fruits Scouting Robot
67
the actual number. Therefore, improving the accuracy of target recognition in a single
frame image is very important for target tracking and counting.
Table 2. Experimental results of counting tomatoes by Deepsort algorithm.
test1
test2
test3
Speed
0.1 m/s
0.1 m/s
0.1 m/s
Number of detected bunch fruits
49
116
144
Accuracy of bunch fruit counting
61.2%
58.6%
59.7%
Number of single fruit detected
265
586
593
Accuracy of single fruit counting
74.3%
77.4%
79.2%
4
Conclusion and Future Work
We proposed a tomato fruit counting method for a greenhouse inspection robot that
uses the spatial displacement information of the inspection robot to track the position
of tomatoes in an image to achieve the function of tomato fruit tracking and counting.
This method uses a trained fruit detection model to identify each bunch of fruits in
the image and calculate the number of single fruits in each bunch. At the same time,
3D deep ﬁltering can effectively avoid the interference of background tomatoes. Then,
the displacement information and coordinate transformation of the inspection robot are
used to eliminate the repeated list representing the same string of tomatoes. Finally,
the retained list can be converted into the quantity information of tomato fruits. Then,
the duplicate list representing the same bunch of tomatoes is removed by coordinate
transformation and the displacement information of the inspection robot, and the retained
list is converted into the quantity information of tomato fruits.
The tomato fruit counting method proposed in this paper has the following two
advantages: (1) it can realize the tracking of bunched fruits and the counting of sin-
gle fruits at the same time; (2) Depth information ﬁltering can effectively reduce the
interference of background tomato fruit.
Our future work will mainly focus on how to improve the accuracy of string fruit and
single fruit recognition, especially how to solve the occlusion problem of single fruit.
We may train and use different models for different periods, or modify the network to
improve the recognition accuracy.
Funding. This research was fundeded by National Key Research and Development Program of
China (2017YFD0701502).

68
G. Dai et al.
References
1. Yangyang,Z.,Jianlei,K.,Xuebo,J.,etal.:Cropdeep:thecropvisiondatasetfordeep-learning-
based classiﬁcation and detection in precision agriculture. Sensors 19(5), 1058 (2019)
2. Tian, H., Tianhai, W., Yadong, L., et al.: Computer vision technology in agricultural
automation—a review. Inf. Process. Agri. 7(1), 1–19 (2020)
3. Bargoti, S., Underwood, J.P.: Image segmentation for fruit detection and yield estimation in
apple orchards. J. Field Robot. 34(6), 1039–1060 (2017)
4. Liu, X., Chen, S.W., Aditya, S., et al.: Robust fruit counting: combining deep learning, track-
ing, and structure from motion. In: 2018 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent
Robots and Systems (IROS), pp. 1045–1052(2018)
5. Ramos, P.J., Prieto, F.A., Montoya, E.C., et al.: Automatic fruit count on coffee branches
using computer vision. Comput. Electron. Agric. 137, 9–22 (2017)
6. Häni, N., Roy, P., Isler, V.: A comparative study of fruit detection and counting methods for
yield mapping in apple orchards. J. Field Robot. 37(2), 263–282 (2020)
7. Afonso, M., Fonteijn, H., Fiorentin, F. S., et al.: Tomato fruit detection and counting in
greenhouses using deep learning. Front. Plant Sci. 1759 (2020)
8. Kirk, R., Mangan, M., Cielniak, G.: Robust counting of soft fruit through occlusions with
re-identiﬁcation. In: Vincze, M., Patten, T., Christensen, H.I., Nalpantidis, L., Liu, M. (eds.)
Computer Vision Systems. ICVS 2021. LNCS, vol. 12899, pp. 211–222 (2021). https://doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-030-87156-7_17
9. Redmon,J.,Divvala,S.,Girshick,R.,etal.:Youonlylookonce:uniﬁed,real-timeobjectdetec-
tion. In: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition,
pp. 779–788 (2016)
10. Jiang, B., Luo, R., Mao, J., et al.: Acquisition of localization conﬁdence for accurate object
detection. In: Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV), pp. 784–
799 (2018)
11. Wojke, N., Bewley, A., Paulus, D.: Simple online and realtime tracking with a deep association
metric. In: 2017 IEEE International Conference on Image Processing (ICIP), pp. 3645–3649
(2017)
