 
 
 
 
Agronomy 2021, 11, 646. https://doi.org/10.3390/agronomy11040646 
www.mdpi.com/journal/agronomy 
Review 
Recognition of Bloom/Yield in Crop Images Using Deep  
Learning Models for Smart Agriculture: A Review 
Bini Darwin 1, Pamela Dharmaraj 2, Shajin Prince 3, Daniela Elena Popescu 4 and Duraisamy Jude Hemanth 3,* 
1 Department of Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering, Karunya Institute of Technology and Sciences, 
Coimbatore 641114, India; binivlsies@gmail.com 
2 Department of Biomedical Engineering, Karunya Institute of Technology and Sciences,  
Coimbatore 641114, India; pamela@karunya.edu 
3 Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, Karunya Institute of Technology and Sciences, 
Coimbatore 641114, India; shajinprince@gmail.com 
4 Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Information Technology, University of Oradea,  
410087 Oradea, Romania; depopescu@uoradea.ro 
* Correspondence: judehemanth@karunya.edu; Tel.: +91-9443001874 
Abstract: Precision agriculture is a crucial way to achieve greater yields by utilizing the natural 
deposits in a diverse environment. The yield of a crop may vary from year to year depending on the 
variations in climate, soil parameters and fertilizers used. Automation in the agricultural industry 
moderates the usage of resources and can increase the quality of food in the post-pandemic world. 
Agricultural robots have been developed for crop seeding, monitoring, weed control, pest manage-
ment and harvesting. Physical counting of fruitlets, flowers or fruits at various phases of growth is 
labour intensive as well as an expensive procedure for crop yield estimation. Remote sensing tech-
nologies offer accuracy and reliability in crop yield prediction and estimation. The automation in 
image analysis with computer vision and deep learning models provides precise field and yield 
maps. In this review, it has been observed that the application of deep learning techniques has pro-
vided a better accuracy for smart farming. The crops taken for the study are fruits such as grapes, 
apples, citrus, tomatoes and vegetables such as sugarcane, corn, soybean, cucumber, maize, wheat. 
The research works which are carried out in this research paper are available as products for appli-
cations such as robot harvesting, weed detection and pest infestation. The methods which made use 
of conventional deep learning techniques have provided an average accuracy of 92.51%. This paper 
elucidates the diverse automation approaches for crop yield detection techniques with virtual anal-
ysis and classifier approaches. Technical hitches in the deep learning techniques have progressed 
with limitations and future investigations are also surveyed. This work highlights the machine vi-
sion and deep learning models which need to be explored for improving automated precision farm-
ing expressly during this pandemic. 
Keywords: precision agriculture; crop yield estimation; plant disease detection; robot harvesting; 
post harvesting 
 
1. Introduction 
Smart farming helps farmers plan their work with the data obtained with agricul-
tural drones, satellites and sensors. The detailed topography, climate forecasts, tempera-
ture and acidity of the soil can be accessed by sensors positioned on the agricultural farms. 
Precision agriculture affords farmers with compilations of statistics to:  
 
create an outline of the agricultural land 
 
detect environmental risks  
 
manage the usage of fertilizers and pesticides 
 
forecast crop yields 
Citation: Darwin, B.; Dharmaraj, P.; 
Prince, S.; Popescu, D.E.; Hemanth, 
D.J. Recognition of Bloom/Yield in 
Crop Images Using Deep Learning 
Models for Smart Agriculture: A  
Review. Agronomy 2021, 11, 646. 
https://doi.org/10.3390/ 
agronomy11040646 
Academic Editor: Thomas Scholten, 
Ruhollah Taghizadeh-Mehrjardi and 
Karsten Schmidt 
Received: 13 February 2021 
Accepted: 25 March 2021 
Published: 27 March 2021 
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neu-
tral with regard to jurisdictional 
claims in published maps and insti-
tutional affiliations. 
 
Copyright: © 2021 by the authors. Li-
censee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. 
This article is an open access article 
distributed under the terms and con-
ditions of the Creative Commons At-
tribution (CC BY) license (http://crea-
tivecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). 

Agronomy 2021, 11, 646 
2 of 22 
 
 
 
organize for harvest  
 
improve the marketing and distribution of the farm products. 
According to the 2011 census, in India nearly 54.6% of the entire workforce is dedi-
cated to agricultural and associated sector tasks, which in 2017–2018 accounted for 17.1% 
of the nation’s Gross Value Added. To safeguard from the risks inherent to agriculture, 
the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare announced an insurance scheme for 
crops in 1985. Problems have emerged in the scheme technology to collect data and lessen 
the delays in responding to insurance claims by the farmers. Crop yield estimation is man-
datory for this and are recorded by conducting Crop Cutting Experiments (CCE) con-
ducted in regions of the states by the Government of India. The directorate of Economics 
and Statistics is presently guiding Crop Cutting Experiments for 13 chief crops under the 
General Crop Estimation Scheme. To improve the quality of statistics collection of Crop 
Cutting Experiments, Global Positioning System (GPS) data such as elevation of fields, 
area, latitude and longitude are being recorded by remote sensing [1,2]. The vegetation 
indices acquired through the satellite images track the phenological profiles of the crops 
throughout the year [3,4]. 
The conventional crop yield estimation requires crop acreages along with sample as-
sessments that depend on crop cutting experiments. The crop yield data is the most es-
sential data for the area-yield insurance schemes such as Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima 
Yojana (PMFBY) in India. The PMFBY scheme was launched to support the Indian farmers 
financially during times of crop failure caused by natural disasters or pest attacks [5]. To 
implement these national scale agricultural policies, crop cutting experiments are carried 
out by government officers in various regions in different districts of the state. Because 
the costs involved are pretty high, the desired crop data from large specific regions is lim-
ited to small scale crop cutting experiments and surveys of small zones. The present-day 
industry methods for yield estimation use automated computer vision technology to de-
tect and estimate the count of various harvests [6]. The progress in computing capabilities 
has provided appropriate techniques for small area yield estimation. The proficiency of 
crop yield estimation can be improved by using remote sensing data for a considerably 
larger area [7]. Satellite images are quantitatively processed to obtain high accuracy in 
agricultural applications such as crop yield estimation [8]. 
The crop yield prediction has been possible by counting the number of flowers and 
comparinf this number with the count of fruits prior to harvesting stage for citrus trees 
[6]. The bloom intensity existing in an orchard influences the crop management in the 
early season. The estimation of flower count with a deep learning model will be effectual 
for crop yield prediction, thinning and pruning which impact the fruit yield [9]. The pre-
diction of vine yield helps the farmer to prepare for harvest, transport the crop and plan 
for distribution in the market. The plant diseases during the flowering and fruit develop-
ment stage may affect crop yield forecasts. Deep learning classifier models are advanced 
to execute crop disease identification to operate in agricultural farms under controlled and 
real cultivation environments [10,11].  
At Iwate University, Japan, a robotic harvester with a machine vision system was 
able to recognize Fuji apples on the tree and estimate the fruit yield with an accuracy of 
88%. The bimodal distribution of the enhanced image with its histogram uses optimal 
thresholding segmentation to extract the fruit portion from the background [12]. The ma-
turity level for tomato berries can be detected with a  supervised backpropagation neural 
network classifier, with the green, orange and red color extraction technique as explained 
in [13]. Agricultural robots execute their farm duties either as self-propelled autonomous 
vehicles or manually controlled smart machines. The autonomous vehicles may be an un-
manned aerial vehicle (UAV) or an unmanned ground vehicle (UGV) guided by GPS and 
a global navigation satellite system (GNSS). The autonomous agricultural tasks that can 
be accomplished by the larger robots range from seeding to harvesting and post-harvest-
ing tasks as well in some cases.  

Agronomy 2021, 11, 646 
3 of 22 
 
 
Automation in agriculture to perform farm duties must face challenges due to light-
ing conditions and crop variations [14,15]. In Norway, an autonomous strawberry har-
vester was developed considering light variations. The machine vision system changed 
its color threshold in response to alterations in the light intensity [16]. Robot harvesting 
machines achieve lower accuracy in spotting and picking crops due to occlusions caused 
by leaves and twigs [17,18]. Modern machine vision techniques and machine learning 
models with assorted sensors and cameras can overcome these inadequacies. The basic 
system of a robot harvester must perform functions such as: detect the fruit or detect the 
disease, pick the fruit/ berry without damaging it, guide the harvester to navigate the field, 
maneuver irrespective of the lighting and weather conditions, be cost-effective and have 
a simple mechanical design [19]. 
Being a review paper, we have extensively surveyed the merits and demerits of the 
deep learning techniques used in smart agriculture. A keyword-based search was per-
formed for transactions, journal and conference papers with the scientific indexing from 
databases such as IEEE Xplore, Scopus, Wiley Online library and ScienceDirect. We used 
“machine vision” and “deep learning techniques in agriculture” as keywords and filtered 
the papers for various agricultural applications. This review intends to help researchers 
further explore machine vision techniques and the various classifiers of deep learning 
models used in smart farming.  
The outline of our review is as follows: Section 2 discusses with the various image 
acquisition approaches at the ground level and aerial view. The modes of automation for 
diverse agricultural applications are surveyed in Section 3. Section 4 deals with the image 
preprocessing techniques involved in enhancing the raw images. Section 5 lists the image 
segmentation approaches for distinguishing fruit/flower pixels from the background pix-
els. Section 6 emphases the selection and extraction of features for the deep classifier mod-
els. Section 7 discusses further literature on classifiers used in deep learning models for 
various agricultural applications, followed by the available datasets. Section 8 expands 
the survey with the performance metrics used to compare the existing and proposed al-
gorithms. Section 9 interprets with the pros and cons of the existing approaches. Section 
10 concludes the survey with a discussion of potential future work. 
2. Materials and Methods 
Many studies on machine vision and deep learning models for fruit and flower de-
tection, counting and harvesting are being formulated. The accurate yield estimation for 
diverse vegetable and fruit crops is extremely essential for better harvesting, marketing 
and logistics planning. Bloom intensity estimation effectively provides crop yield predic-
tions and fruit detection with machine vision techniques facilitates yield estimations. The 
accurate prediction of yield helps the farmers to improve the quality of the crop at an early 
stage.  
This review deals with diverse research issues in agricultural automation such as:  
 
image acquisition using handheld cameras under different lighting conditions;  
 
approaches employing image segmentation techniques;  
 
identification of features with various descriptors; 
 
improving the classification rate with deep learning models; 
 
achieving high accuracy and reducing the error rates; 
 
the essential challenges to be tackled in the future. 
The outcome of this research will reduce the labor, time consumption and cost-effec-
tive machineries to support farmers in precision farming. The stages of the literature re-
view are shown in Figure 1.  

Agronomy 2021, 11, 646 
4 of 22 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Summary of the literature search work. 
Several publicly available datasets were used in this study. The Apple A dataset pro-
vides a collection of apple flower images recorded with a hand-held camera and the Apple 
B dataset provides a collection of apple flower images taken by a utility vehicle. Figure 2a 
presents the distribution of papers taken for the literature review. From the bar chart, it is 
relevant that 50% of papers taken for study are published in the years 2018, 2019 and 2020. 

Agronomy 2021, 11, 646 
5 of 22 
 
 
Figure 2b presents the distribution of agriculture-related articles in each journal taken for 
the literature study. 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 2. (a) Yearwise distribution of paper taken for literature review (b) Distribution of papers in each journal. 
2.1. Crop Image Acquisition 
Machine vision systems attempt to provide automatic analysis and image-based in-
spection data for guidance and control of the machine by integrating the accessible meth-
ods in innovative ways for solving the real-time problems [20]. The so called agrobots 

Agronomy 2021, 11, 646 
6 of 22 
 
 
execute their farm duties through developed machine learning technology and robot vi-
sion systems [21]. The mapping, navigation and detection for an autonomous agrobot to 
control and plan the execution can be achieved with these machine vision algorithms [22]. 
The machine vision system requires an assortment of image processing technologies such 
as: filtering, thresholding, segmentation, color-texture- shape analysis, pattern recogni-
tion, edge detection, blob detection and diverse neural network processing models. The 
machine learning models combined with machine vision techniques enhance the perfor-
mance of the automated system to perform farm duties more precisely. 
2.1.1. Crop Image Acquired by Cameras at Ground Level 
RGB images are captured with cameras in a small scale or on a larger scale depending 
on the area of the field. The images of the plants are captured utilizing common digital 
cameras with a high image resolution [23]. The recordings were taken under various en-
vironmental conditions. The lighting conditions include natural sunlight, with or without 
shadows, and artificial illumination or infrared lighting at night. Fusion of RGB with near 
infrared (NIR) multimodal pictures acquired all through the day as well as at night was 
used for fruit detection [24]. To enhance the fruit detection, pixel-based fusion techniques 
like the Laplacian pyramid transform (LPT) and fuzzy logic were tested. Fuzzy logic of 
grey image functioned better than LPT based on image fusion indices. The segmentation 
success rate was 0.89 for fuzzy logic and 0.72 for LPT. A visible image and a thermal in-
frared image fusion enhanced fruit detection [25]. RGB images were analyzed to estimate 
the chlorophyll content in potato plants [26] and maturity of the tomato plants. Image 
acquisition cameras provide high-resolution real-time pictures that are further processed 
contingent on the prerequisites of the machine. The artificial active lighting enhances the 
system with a ring flash fastened around the lenses [23]. The image acquisition at the 
bloom stage (flowering) predicted the crop yield using image processing algorithms [27]. 
The image acquisition for training data needs to be cautiously chosen. The selection of the 
architecture of the neural network should not be affected by the size of training datasets 
with respect to its performance. The machine vision techniques encounter specific prob-
lems owing to the configuration of the agricultural fields for image acquisition such as: 
 
Natural illumination to detect the fruit/berries on the plant [28,29] 
 
Multiple recognition instances of the same fruit, acquired from subsequent images 
that may perhaps lead to miscounting [30]. 
 
Occlusion of fruits due to foliage, twigs, branches or additional fruit [14,31]. 
 
Location of camera with respect to distance and angle [32].  
Sample dataset images of tomato crop phenology are shown in Figure 3. 
 
 
 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
Figure 3. Phenology of tomato crop: (a) bloom stage; (b) immature tomatoes (c) mature tomatoes. 
2.1.2. Crop Image Acquisition by Remote Sensing 
The images obtained through Landsat 8 OLI have low resolution and a pan-sharpen-
ing technique is applied to calculate the vegetation indices [33–35]. The multispectral and 
hyperspectral images acquired through remote sensing were used for monitoring season-
ally variable crop and soil status features such as crop diseases, crop biomass, the nitrogen 

Agronomy 2021, 11, 646 
7 of 22 
 
 
content in leaves, weed and insect penetration, chlorophyll levels of leaves, moisture con-
tent, surface roughness, soil texture and soil temperature. The satellite images have low 
spatial resolution compared to the images acquired via drones or in-situ images. This re-
quires cloud scattering, radiometric, atmospheric and geometric correction with assorted 
techniques for effective calibration of the acquired remote sensing data [8]. The obstruc-
tions in remote sensing data may occur due to cloud coverage during the course of the 
satellite overflight. The corn yield estimation was achieved with the various data acquired 
from MODIS product such as leaf area index (LAI), gross primary production (GPP), frac-
tion of photosynthetically active radiation (FPAR), evapotranspiration (ET), soil moisture 
(SM) and enhanced vegetation Index (EVI) using deep learning techniques [36–40]. The 
yield prediction is executed more effectively with RGB data than normalized difference 
vegetation indices (NDVI) images [41].  
3. Autonomous Movers for Smart Farming 
3.1. Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGVs)  
The autonomous ground vehicles for tree pruning, and blossom stage tasks such as 
fruit thinning, mowing, spraying pests, sensing, fruit harvesting and post harvesting were 
trained, reconfigured and reassigned for numerous operations. An autonomous prime 
mover could complete 300 km of driving in orchards with no supervision to reduce labor 
costs [42]. The autonomous navigation technique in row detection for tiny plants adapts 
a pattern with a Hough transform to assess the row spacing and lateral offset with real-
time field data [28,43]. The localization, mapping, path planning and the agricultural field 
information with miscellaneous sensors guide autonomous ground vehicles to perform 
various farm duties. Obstacle-averting decisions in agricultural terrain are complicated. 
The fusion of sensors with multiple algorithms and multiple robots detects the defined 
obstacles, controls and navigates the agricultural environment [44–46]. The automation 
system increases the farm proficiency with the self-guided vehicles and autonomous exe-
cution of farm duties like spraying, pruning, mowing, thinning and harvesting. A pheno-
typing robot can be fast and more precise; a next-best view (NBV) algorithm collects the 
information of unknown obstacles to plan the plant phenotyping automatically [47]. 
The autonomous harvesting process entails the detection of targets by the machine 
vision model and plans the sequential task of grasping the real targets by the manipulators 
or grippers. The sugarcane harvester machine combined with machine vision algorithm 
detects the damaged billets, consequently increasing the quality of the production [48]. 
The autonomous rice harvester with a combined robot performed harvesting, unloading 
and restarting with adequate accuracy [49]. The autonomous harvesting grippers with 
machine vision locate target like peduncles for various crops and remove the leaves and 
stems as obstacles to improve the harvesting system [50]. A manipulator (Jaco arm) can 
perform trimming of a bush into three shapes and the navigation system tracked the gen-
eralized travelling salesman problem (GTSP) [51]. Reducing the cycle time for harvesting 
represents a vital role for the robot industry. The review showed a kiwi harvester could 
achieved the shortest cycle time of 1 s due to a low-cost and effective manipulator [52,53]. 
The damage caused during the grasping of the fruit is one of the main concerns in dealing 
with manipulators [54]. An arc shaped finger was designed and demonstrated to reduce 
injury to the cortex of apples.  
Autonomous robots are widely used in weed detection and management [55]. The 
agricultural robots are quite expensive and not widely used due to safety reasons, me-
chanical and industrial limitations. The pest sprayer robot lessens the exposure of human 
workers to pesticides, reducing medical hazards [56–58]. A high-resolution camera for a 
machine vision system along with accurate sensors and increased number of manipula-
tors executing in parallel with human collaboration can progress the agricultural automa-
tion industry [59]. Dual arm manipulators in a single harvester with one gripper dedicated 
to moving aside any obstacles, could successfully pick strawberries [16]. An autonomous 

Agronomy 2021, 11, 646 
8 of 22 
 
 
robot can navigate in straight or curved rows without having hundreds of programmed 
waypoints, by utilizing a 2D laser scanner [46]. A 3D simulation with real-time geographic 
coordinates and a first order approximation model was designed as a skid-steering auton-
omous robot [60]. The dynamic and kinematic constraints of a path-planning robot were 
successfully applied to a yield prediction and harvest scheduling path planner autono-
mous machine [61]. The motion control of the manipulator has been realized with a 
TRAC-IK kinematic solver. Some other kinematic solvers used are ROS MoveIt, and lazy 
PRM planner [62]. 
3.2. Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs)  
Drones or unmanned aerial vehicles mounted with RGB-NIR cameras afford data 
with high spatial resolution. UAVs can cover the tree crowns and plants and provide 
multi-spectral images by flying at low altitudes [63]. Agricultural drones provide a bird’s 
eye view with multispectral images and survey the field periodically to provide infor-
mation about the crops. Drones provide bird-view snapshots of the agronomic world. The 
aerial images are acquired through drones equipped with a high definition RGB camera 
with 4k resolution to snap images along with an attached GPS [64]. Depending on the 
agricultural application, UAV platforms with diverse embedded technologies have been 
commercialized. UAVs can fly at lower as well as higher altitudes, depending on the re-
quirements of the monitoring function at hand [65]. 
4. Enhancement of Captured Crop Images for Bloom/Yield Detection  
The enhancement process eliminates noise or blur in an image. Various techniques 
like bilinear, nearest neighbor, bicubic, histogram equalization, iterative-curvature-based 
interpolation, and linear/non-linear filtering enhancement were employed in applications 
such as resizing, image reduction, image registration, zooming and to alter spatio-geo-
metric distortions. 
4.1. Resolution Enhancement  
Real time captured color images are resized with techniques like the bicubic interpo-
lation or bilinear interpolation method for computational simplicity. Bicubic interpolation 
technique resample images considering 16 (4 × 4) pixels on a 2D grid to furnish a smooth 
scaled image. In remote sensing applications, a digital terrain model established process 
improves the accuracy and efficacy of the satellite data [66]. To unify the dimensions of 
the samples, resizing of the images is necessary. The effectiveness in categorization can be 
ensured by increasing the resolution of satellite images through a pan-sharpening tech-
nique. The accuracy of the crop yield estimation relies upon the total number as well as 
the size of the samples. The size of the input image for classification persists as a crucial 
parameter. The average size of the featured templates defines the minimum size of the 
image window [67]. The resolution of the images was chosen based on the regions of in-
terest (ROIs) which were extracted from the captured real time frame. The importance of 
positioning of the camera angles such as azimuth and zenith angles, were explained in 
[32]. The detection rate increases with the increase in number of captured images of the 
same crop from multifarious viewpoints.  
4.2. Filtering  
The images require filtering techniques to diminish noisy pixels. NIR filters help to 
trace the visible light precisely. A Gaussian filter is applied to the tonal images to lessen 
the noise [68]. The separation of fruit from the background pixels along with noise elimi-
nation uses a Gaussian density function, emphasized with erosion and dilation, which 
erodes the neighborhood pixels [23]. The Gaussian filtering affects the edges during noise 
removal for a fixed window size. The median filter preserves edges effectively and elimi-
nates the impulsive noise in digital images. The templates are transformed with K-means 

Agronomy 2021, 11, 646 
9 of 22 
 
 
clustering based on Euclidean metrics to rescale images considering points of interest. For 
the enhancement of an RGB image and to remove the edge pixel region, a variance filter 
was used to replace the individual pixels using the neighbourhood variance value of the 
R, G, B regions correspondingly [14]. A median filter can reduce the noise caused by sun 
ray illumination.  
4.3. Histogram Equalization  
In computer vision, the image histogram can be epitomized graphically with pixels 
plotted through tonal variations for images to analyze the peaks and valleys and conse-
quently to uncover the threshold value. The histograms applied for color spaces assist in 
background removal to improve the efficiency as well as accuracy [69]. The optimal 
threshold value can be resolved automatically with the unimodal attributes generated by 
the grey-level histogram of the luminance designed for natural images. The histogram for 
each pixel in the image constructs peaks and valleys for each object in accordance with 
the color. As a consequence, a threshold value can be procured for each entity in the im-
age. Normalized histograms were used for the correlation with persimmon fruit [70].  
Our investigation indicates that the most common color space model used in various 
yield recognition applications was RGB. Image resizing processes are applied in most of 
the works to unify the dimensions of the samples and to speed up the training process in 
deep learning models. High-resolution cameras are commonly used for capturing the de-
tails of the crops. In most of the works, color-based or threshold-based segmentation was 
performed to extract the region of interest. Table 1 lists the miscellaneous modes of cap-
ture and their enhancement methods.  
Table 1. Diverse modes for Real-time capture. 
Real Time 
Capture 
Color Space 
Pixels 
Crop/Fruit 
No. of Images 
Lighting  
Conditions 
Enhancement  
Techniques 
Success % 
Error % 
CCD cam-
era [12] 
RGB 
320 × 240 
Fuji apple 
60 
sunlight 
optimum threshold 
92.2 
1.5 
DSLR [71] 
RGB 
HSV 
1232 × 1616 
apple 
8000 
natural 
watershed segmenta-
tion & circular Hough 
transform 
- 
3.8 
Monocular 
Nikon 
D300 [30] 
HSV 
1072 × 712 
green apple 
480 
artificial illumina-
tion at night 
saturation threshold 
- 
1.2 
Nikon J2 
[72] 
YIQ, RGB, Lab 
3872 × 2592 
tomato 
180 
daylight 
average pixel value of I 
component 
96.5 
3.5 
Kinect v1.0 
sensor [73] 
HSV 
640 × 480 
tomato 
800 
(9:00–11:00 a.m.) 
and (4:00–6:00 
p.m.) 
Contour segmentation 
- 
- 
Canon 
Power shot 
SD8801S 
[74] 
HSI, YCbCr and 
RGB 
3648 × 2736 
citrus 
96 
daylight 
color thresholding, cir-
cular Gabor texture 
and ‘Eigenfruit’ 
75.3 
24.7 
Smart mo-
bile phone 
[75] 
RGB 
3264 × 2448 
citrus 
40 
natural daylight 
global segmentation 
threshold 
90 
10 
Power shot 
SD880IS 
[69] 
RGB 
3648 × 2736 
citrus 
118 
daylight 
circular Hough trans-
form 
84 
16 
Canon 50D 
[14] 
RGB and YCbCr 
4752 × 3168 
mango 
593 
sunlight 
threshold Cr layer 
51 
2.4 
 
 

Agronomy 2021, 11, 646 
10 of 22 
 
 
5. Crop Image Segmentation  
The image-based segmentation is the process of classification of parts of images into 
fruit, leaf, stem, flower or any background as non-plant pixels. In this method, the ac-
quired raw images are modified to lessen the effects of blur, noise and distortion to im-
prove the image quality. Recent advances in computer vision enable us to analyze each 
pixel of an image. For identifying the pixel region as an individual fruit, leaf, flower or 
twig, image segmentation approaches are required [76,77]. Some of the image-segmenta-
tion approaches for machine vision system have been reviewed in this article. 
5.1. Threshold-Based Segmentation  
The partitioning of an image into its foreground and background by a threshold 
value is defined by exploring the peaks and valleys from the histogram. The optimal 
threshold value segments the object from the background. The threshold magnitudes 
were determined by the trial-and-error method for assorted color spaces, to procure the 
required color layer. The color image acquired will be instantly threshold segmented into 
the H layer by the Otsu method for differentiating reddish grapes region from greenish 
background. The histogram-based thresholding for the H component eliminated the 
twigs, leaf, sky, trunk and sky from real-time images. Local 3D threshold values computed 
for different smaller regions in network device interface (NDI) space of the image with 
high, medium and low illumination conditions could reduce the false detection of real 
fruits [78]. The tracking of the fruit with respect to new detection are estimated by the 
boundary threshold value and intersection of union (IoU) threshold value. The threshold 
value was computed for the red regions to eliminate the background images with mor-
phological functions for the estimation of tomatoes. The EVI data contaminated with 
clouds were smoothened by a hard threshold [68]. The false positive elimination was 
made on the basis of cluster reflectance, geometry and positioning. The clusters were seg-
mented with a 3D point cloud with a reflectance threshold value. The blob and pixel-based 
segmentation with X-means clustering technique classified and detected individual to-
mato berry from a fruit cluster [79]. 
5.2. Color-Based Segmentation 
Machine vision for harvesting incorporates miscellaneous color spaces like RGB, HSI, 
L*A*B*, CIE Lab changing in harmony with the illumination of the environment. The color 
space, L*A*B* restores the human vision based on chromatic eccentricity level of the im-
age. The detection of the fruit during the ripening period uses RGB and HSI color models 
along with the calibration spheres to resolve the size of apple fruits in [15,80]. The fruit 
detection by thresholding of grey images was not satisfactory, as the histogram values of 
the color images and grey images were not unimodal. The color of the fruit was accounted 
for with the calculated pixels of an individual citrus fruit and tomato berry. The color-
based segmentation may be effective only under natural daylight conditions. The multi-
band ratio-based segmentation has a self-adaptive range for diverse illumination effects 
accomplished with an Otsu threshold value.  
5.3. Segmentation Based on Texture Analysis 
Texture-based segmentation extracts the regions of interest from images based on 
spatially distributed boundaries with similar pixels. The Wigner-Ville distribution defines 
an auto-correlation function of the time-frequency domain to construct the textures of the 
color segmented image [81]. Entropy (E) and smoothness (S) were estimated to remove 
the false positives. The lower entropy value was categorized as fruits when compared 
with the values of leaves and twigs. The fruit identification with texture-based analysis 
extracts the regions with similar adjacent pixels and partitions the needed fruit pixels from 
the background pixels. A revolution invariant circular Gabor texture segmentation with 

Agronomy 2021, 11, 646 
11 of 22 
 
 
color and shape features—an ‘Eigenfruit’ algorithm—was proposed to detect green citrus 
fruits [74].  
5.4. Segmentation Based on Shapes 
To preserve shapes and to reconstruct the captured scene, a 3D reconstruction shape 
algorithm with image registration practices is employed for pruning vines [82]. Consider-
ing only the color features may lead to many false positives due to the similarity of the 
green colors of fruits and leaves. A circular Hough transform can identify the circular cit-
rus fruits by merging multiple detections along with the histograms of H, R, B components 
[69]. The calibration measurements with destructive hand samples by the time of imaging 
provide accurate prediction of vine yields [83].  
5.5. Morphological Operations 
The morphological operations involve the conversion of pixel regions to individual 
fruits to be counted. The eccentricity was calculated for individual color segmented apple 
regions; thereby, a threshold value finds a relatively round region, which further deter-
mines individual apples without occlusion. In the case of two or more occluded fruits, the 
length of the ellipse was calculated and its major axis was split into two segments [30]. 
The parting of individual fruits from clusters or to link disjoint fragments of the same 
fruit, the watershed algorithm was used along with a circular Hough transform. The wa-
tershed algorithm executed the work better than circular Hough transform. The water-
shed transformation is an efficient segmentation algorithm which considers the image as 
a homogeneous topographic plane. The morphological functions were applied with an 
Euclidean transform and watershed gradient lines to detect small blobbed cucumbers 
thereby eliminating small leaves and flowers [67]. 
6. Feature Extraction for Classification 
Feature extraction with color values of RGB converted to HSI color values determines 
the maturity of tomato samples with image processing techniques. The deep learning 
methods do not require hand-crafted features during training of data. The basic convolu-
tion neural network (CNN) architecture with its input layer, intervening convolution and 
max-pooling or sub-sampling layer and the output layers automatically extracts feature 
as well as classifies diverse object classes in images. Haar-like features based on edge, 
radian and line were experimented for grey images combined with color analysis in an 
Adaboost classifier to eliminate the false negative ratio. The texture features and the max-
imally stable color region (MSCR) descriptor sets, govern fruit detection in the subdivided 
support window with a frequency distributed histogram using a support vector machine 
(SVM) classifier. The attribute profiles with multilevel morphological characteristics such 
as area (dimensions of the region in terms of pixels), standard deviation (texture measure 
of the region) and moment of inertia (shape of the region) offered a vast advancement 
upon state-of-art descriptors in the classification of weed and crop using machine vision 
[84]. The estimation of fruit is realized with a fruit-as-feature as a SfM, which converts 2D 
traces to 3D markers. This feature improves the system with CNN classifier to eliminate 
scenarios of double counting of fruits and was a faster algorithm when paralleled with 
scale-invariant feature transform (SIFT) features [85]. The feature sets like closeness, so-
lidity, extent, compactness and texture were selected by a sequential forward selection 
and RELIEF algorithm and implemented with SVM for yield estimation and prediction 
[86]. A combination of histograms of oriented gradients (HOG) features in color image, 
false color removal (FCR) technique and non-maximum suppression (NMS) features 
trained using a SVM classifier detected mature tomatoes with a processing time of 0.95 s 
[87]. 
The other parameters selected by feature assorting algorithms like variance inflation 
factor, sequential forward parameter descriptor, random forest variable and correlation-

Agronomy 2021, 11, 646 
12 of 22 
 
 
based descriptor selection were number of wells, area, tanks, the canal lengths and soil 
capacity, landscape features. The descriptors selected for crop yield prediction were rain-
fall, maximum-average-minimum temperature, solar radiation, planting area, irrigation 
water depth and season duration [88]. Automatic disease detection with computer vision 
technology can treat the crop at the earliest, which consequently improves the quality and 
increase the crop yield. Crop disease detection can utilize simple linear iterative clustering 
features to segment the super pixels in a CIELAB color model [89]. The autonomous ma-
turity detection of tomato berries was developed with the fusion of multiple (color- tex-
ture) features using an iterative RELIEF algorithm [90]. Principal component analysis 
(PCA), a pixel level classification technique, could automatically detect diseases in pepper 
leaves from the color features [91]. 
7. Deep Learning Models 
Deep learning models have been used in diverse applications of crop yield measure-
ments such as crop monitoring, prediction, estimation and fruit detection in harvesting 
with numerous data sets for the machine to learn. The architecture can be implemented 
in different ways like, deep Boltzmann machine, deep belief network, convolutional neu-
ral network and stacked auto-encoders. The CNN architecture learns in depth the hierar-
chical features with residual blocks and soft-NMS decays the detected object with the 
bounding boxes. The networks are interpreted as universal approximation theorems with 
hidden layers, filters and hyper-parameters. Previous works report on the prediction ac-
curacy with respect to the number of convolutional layers. The increase in the number of 
convolutional layers improves the accuracy of the network. 
7.1. Deep Architectures in Smart Farming 
A deep convolutional neural network (DCNN) is a multi-layered neuron, which is 
trained with complex patterns provided with appropriately classified features of an im-
age. The InceptionV3 model assists as a conventional image feature extractor to classify 
fruit and background pixels in an image. The classifier localizes the fruits to count the 
quantities of fruit present [31,92] and classify the species of tomato [93]. A K-nearest neigh-
bour (KNN) classifier was employed to classify the fruit pixels in trained datasets with a 
threshold pixel value set as a fruit pixel. The SVM functions for pattern classification as 
well as linear regression assessment, based on the selected features. Darknet classifier 
with a trained “you only look once” (YOLO) model detected iceberg lettuce [94] and 
grapes [95] with edges for harvesting using a Vegebot. YOLO models offer a high objects 
detection rate in real-time when compared to faster region-based CNN (FRCNN) [96].  
The AdaBoost model structures the strong traditional classifier by combining the 
weak classifiers linearly with minimal thresholding tasks and Haar-like features to detect 
tomato berries with an accuracy of 96% [72]. A multi-modal faster region-based CNN 
model constructs an efficient fruit yield detection technique with multifarious modalities 
by the fusion of RGB and near-infrared images and has improved the performance up to 
0.83 F1 score [97]. The dataset images were fed to the R-CNN model to generate the feature 
map for classification. 
The spatiotemporal exploration from remote sensing image data of normalized dif-
ference vegetation indices were trained with a spiking neural network (SNN) to plan crop 
yield prediction and crop yield estimation of winter wheat [98]. A better prediction algo-
rithm for corn, soybean [99] and paddy crops was proposed with a (feed forward back 
propagation) artificial neural network (ANN) and later with a fusion of multiple linear 
regression (MLR). The linear discriminant analysis (LDA) approach eradicates the imbal-
ance generated from the performance value attained through an ANN classifier [100]. The 
fusion of huge datasets was implemented and compared with various machine learning 
models like SVM, DL, extremely randomized trees (ERT) and random forest (RF) for the 
estimation of corn yield [36]. The deep learning (DL) model succeeded with high accura-

Agronomy 2021, 11, 646 
13 of 22 
 
 
cies with respect to correlation coefficients. The detection of flowers in an image accom-
plished by a deep learning model in semantic segmentation of CNN and SVM classifier 
helps crop yield management. The image segmentation techniques and canopy features 
were used by backpropagation neural network (BPNN) model to train the system for the 
apple yield prediction [101]. The SVM and kNN classifiers were efficient, with an accuracy 
of 98.49% and 98.50%. Deep convolutional neural networks were developed to identify 
plant diseases and to predict the macronutrient deficiencies during the flowering and fruit 
development stage [102]. The visual geometry group (VGG) CNN architecture identified 
plant diseases with the leaf images of the plants and communicated the results to farmers 
through smart phones [103,104]. The endemic fungal infection diagnosis in the winter 
wheat [89] was validated and trained with Imagenet datasets and implemented with an 
adaptive deep CNN. The deep CNN model with GoogleNet classified nine diseases in the 
tomato leaves [105]. The defects in the external regions and the occlusion of flower and 
berries of tomatoes were identified with deep autoencoders and a residual neural network 
(ResNet) 50 classifier [106,107]. A leaf-based disease identification model was developed 
with a random forest classifier trained with HOG features and could detect diseases on 
papaya leaves [108].  
Ripeness estimation is required in the agricultural industry to know the quality and 
level of maturity of the fruit. The ripening of tomatoes was detected with the fusion of 
features extracted and classified using a weighted relevance vector machine (RVM) as a 
bilayer classification approach for harvesting agrobots. The maturity levels in tomatoes 
were detected with the color features classified with BPNN model. A fuzzy rule-based 
classification (FRBCS) approach was proposed based on the color feature with decision 
trees (DT) and Mamdani fuzzy technique to estimate six stages of maturity level in tomato 
berries [109]. A mature-tomato can be identified with a SVM classifier trained by HOG 
features along with false elimination and overlap removal features.  
7.2. Network Training Datasets and Tools 
The deep learning architectures vary widely based on the diverse applications and 
models that are implemented to train them. The deep learning techniques analyze huge 
datasets in a very short computation period to predict the sowing time as well as the op-
timum harvesting time of the plants. The available datasets could be accessed to predict 
and detect diseases in the crops. For creating a deep learning model, there exist various 
architectures which may be pre-trained with diverse datasets. Huge datasets with vast 
numbers of input images are required to train the deep learning models to resolve com-
plicated challenges. The numerous models and datasets include CaffeNet, modified In-
ception-ResNet, YOLO version 3 trained by Darknet classifier, MobileNet, R-CNN trained 
using ResNet 152, Resnet 50, AlexNet, GoogLeNet, Overfeat, AlexNetOWTBn and VGG, 
ReLU, GitHub and Kaggle. The neural network libraries that work with Python comprise 
of keras, DeepLaB + RGR, TensorFlow, Caffe, R library, Torch7, LuaJIT, PyTorch, 
pylearn2, Theano and the Deep Learning Matlab Toolbox. The available datasets for crop 
images are listed in Table 2.  
 
 

Agronomy 2021, 11, 646 
14 of 22 
 
 
Table 2. Image Databases of crops: fruits and vegetables. 
Datasets 
No. of Samples 
Web-Link 
Training Sets 
Testing Sets 
Apple A, 
100 
 
https://data.nal.usda.gov/dataset/data-multi-speciesfruit-flower-detec-
tion-using-refined-semantic-segmentation-network (access on 10 October 
2020 ) 
Apple B, 
18 
30 
Peach, 
24 
 
Pear [9] 
18 
 
Metadata [71] 
900 
100+100 
https://github.com/acfr/pychetlabeller.git (access on 10 October 2020 ) 
Apples 
1120 
 
http://data.acfr.usyd.edu.au/ag/treecrops/2016-multifruit/ (access on 10 
October 2020 ) 
Mangoes 
1964 
 
Almonds [71] 
620 
- 
Fruits 360 [110] 
82213 
- 
https://www.kaggle.com/moltean/fruits (access on 10 October 2020 ) 
Tomato [110] 
- 
- 
https://www.kaggle.com/noulam/tomato (access on 10 October 2020 ) 
TomDB 
- 
- 
http://pgsb.helmholtz-muenchen.de/plant/tomato/index.jsp (access on 10 
October 2020 ) 
Sugarcane [48] 
600 
- 
https://github.com/The77Lab/SugarcaneBilletsDataset (access on 10 Octo-
ber 2020 ) 
KFuji RGB-DS data-
base [111] 
967 
- 
http://www.grap.udl.cat/publicacions/datasets.html (access on 10 October 
2020 ) 
8. Performance Metrics 
The image enhancement techniques, image processing algorithms, detection and pre-
diction algorithms with classifier approaches were compared and evaluated with diverse 
performance metrics. The comparative studies presented by diverse deep learning models 
were validated with assorted performance metrics which are as follows: 
 
Root mean square error (RMSE) 
 
Normalized mean absolute error (MAE) 
 
Root relative square error (RRSE)  
 
Correlation coefficient (R) 
 
Mean forecast error 
 
Average cycle time 
 
Harvest and detachment success 
 
Mean absolute percentage error (MAPE)  
 
Root relative square error (RRSE) 
 
Receiver operating characteristics 
 
Precision, recall, F-measure  
Table 3 lists the various classifiers used for different agricultural applications with 
their respective pros and cons and some topics for future work. 
Table 3. Summary of performance measures of different classifiers for smart agriculture. 
Crop & Ve-
hicle 
Image Analysis 
Feature 
Classifier 
Application 
Performance 
Metrics 
Challenges 
Future Work 
Tomato GV 
[13] 
Threshold seg-
mentation, noise 
cancellation, con-
tour extraction, 
boundary filling 
Color feature 
(ripeness de-
tection) 
Back propagation 
neural network 
(BPNN) 
Ripeness de-
tection 
Accuracy—
99.31% standard 
deviation—1.2% 
Time con-
suming 
Proceed for estima-
tion application 
Tomato GV 
[72] 
Split I layer from 
YIQ color model 
Haar-like fea-
ture 
AdaBoost classifier Berry detec-
tion 
Computation 
time—15–24 s 
accuracy—96% 
Training er-
rors, false de-
tection in oc-
cluded re-
gions 
Reduce computation 
time andenhance de-
tection rates 

Agronomy 2021, 11, 646 
15 of 22 
 
 
Tomato GV 
[73] 
Contour segmen-
tation canny op-
erator 
Edge and deep 
features 
CNN + intuition-
istic fuzzy set 
Detect ripe 
berries 
RMSE—2.996 
Lighting con-
ditions and 
camera pa-
rameters 
Increase recall rate, 
multisensory fusion 
technology for illu-
mination issues 
Tomato GV 
[29] 
Synthetic image 
creation to train 
Object features 
image-based 
descriptors 
Deep CNN + modi-
fied Inception-Res-
Net 
Berry estima-
tion 
Computation 
time—0.006 s 
Accuracy—91% 
Geen toma-
toes as it 
were not 
trained on 
them 
Count green berries, 
mobile application 
Tomato GV 
[112] 
Scaling, rotation 
& random noises 
Activation 
function & 
pooling 
CNN 
Robot harvest-
ing 
Computation 
time—0.01 s 
Accuracy—
91.9% 
Noise sensi-
tive 
Extension for other 
applications 
Corn, soy-
bean, win-
ter wheat 
AV [90] 
MODIS re-projec-
tion tool 
Colour and 
texture fea-
tures 
Weighted rele-
vance vector ma-
chine 
Estimation 
Computation 
time—2.94 s 
Accuracy—
94.9% 
Larger error, 
less accuracy 
and error in 
cropland 
mask 
Refinement in crop 
mask, accuracy 
Paddy AV 
[113] 
Missing value 
and outlier treat-
ment 
Weather & cli-
matic features 
MLR + ANN 
(BPNN) 
Yield predic-
tion 
RMSE—0.051 
R—0.99 
MAE—0.041 
Improved ac-
curacy 
- 
Pepper GV 
[114] 
3D image 
Intersection 
over union 
(IOU) thresh-
old 
Multiclass- 
FRCNN + parallel- 
FRCNN 
Ripeness esti-
mation and 
detection 
F1 Score—77.3 
Accuracy—82% 
Lack of fea-
tures in train-
ing data 
- 
Pepper GV 
[115] 
Color transfor-
mation (G-B), 
POI 
MSCR, texture 
Naïve Bayes classi-
fier + 
SVM classifier 
Detecting, 
counting 
F1 Score-0.65 
r2—74.2% 
Computation 
time—10 s 
Standard er-
ror in predic-
tion 
Various applications 
Mango GV 
[14] 
Threshold Cr 
layer 
Texture 
- 
Yield estima-
tion 
r2—0.74 
Inaccurate 
and sensitive 
to noise 
Improve fruit detec-
tion & lighting con-
ditions 
Apple GV 
[71] 
Watershed + CHT 
segmentation 
Hand-engi-
neered fea-
tures 
MLP + CNN 
Fruit detection 
+ yield estima-
tion 
F1 score—0.861 
r2—0.826 
Misclassifica-
tion, hand- 
engineered 
feature ex-
traction 
Varied strategies for 
training different 
fruits for segmenta-
tion/ detection 
Apple A, 
Apple B, 
peach, pear 
GV [9] 
No preprocessing 
Semantic seg-
mentation of 
flowers 
Residual CNN 
Flower estima-
tion 
F1—83.3% 
F1—77.3% 
F1—74.2% 
F1—86% 
Computation 
time is more 
Evaluate with multi-
species datasets of 
flowers 
Cucumber 
AV [67] 
Watershed trans-
formation, mini-
mal imposition 
technique 
Speeded-UP 
Robust Fea-
tures (SURF) 
Support vector ma-
chine (SVM) 
Robot harvest-
ing 
F1—0.838 
Accuracy and 
long pro-
cessing time 
for complex 
scenes 
Usage of 3d range 
sensing 
Citrus GV 
[69] 
CHT 
Color, shape, 
texture 
FNCC + KNN 
Detection & 
counting 
Accuracy—
84.4% 
Illumination 
effects and 
acquisition 
parameters 
Improve accuracy & 
predicting yield 
 
 

Agronomy 2021, 11, 646 
16 of 22 
 
 
9. Discussion 
Precise agricultural farming requires constant innovation to increase the quantity 
and quality of food production. The machine vision techniques for machine learning ap-
proaches in the automation industry have both positive features and shortcomings that 
are discussed in this section.  
Advantages and Disadvantages 
The acquired images may be prone to be degradation caused by misfocus of the cam-
era, poor lighting conditions or sensor noise. The image enhancement techniques have a 
visual impact on the desired information in a real time captured image. The image en-
hancement techniques do not afford augmented results unless the color modifications are 
made under multiple light sources. The median filter removes the blurred effect and re-
duces the noise. The nonlinear filtering technique can be employed to upgrade the quality 
of blurred images with the light source being refined. Adding noise to the image can im-
prove the image in certain applications. 
The image segmentation techniques are easy to implement and modify to classify 
pixels with less computation. The threshold segmentation requires appropriate lighting 
conditions. The optimal threshold value has to be selected, but it may not be pertinent for 
every application. Any background complexity increases the error rate and computation 
time. The color-based segmentation has constraints due to the non-uniform light sensitiv-
ity. Otsu thresholds excel in the detection of edges and select the threshold value based 
on the features provided to the image. The watershed segmentation provides continuous 
boundaries however, with consequent complexity in the calculation of the gradients. The 
texture and shape-based segmentation are time-consuming and provide blurred bounda-
ries. To optimize the computer vision technology, further exploration in unstable agricul-
tural environments has to be formulated. 
The feature selection process reduces the quantity of input data while developing a 
predictive classifier model. Haar wavelet features combined with an AdaBoost classifier 
achieved high accuracy. The feature selection prioritizes the existing features in a dataset. 
The PCA can outperform other features with high accuracy by the pixel-level identifica-
tion of input as original image compared with the input features. The SIFT detection al-
gorithm requires scaling of local features in the images. The HOG method can extract 
global features by computing the edge gradient. HOG+FCR+NMS achieved a computa-
tion time of 0.95s for maturity detection. The hybrid approaches in feature extraction can 
improve classification and computation time. 
The DL model with SVM, BPNN classifiers outperformed other classifiers. The SVM 
classifiers provide less error with effective prediction but require abundant datasets and 
are more complex and delicate to handle varied datatypes. The TensorFlow library en-
deavors to uncover optimal policy and does not wait till the termination to update the 
utility function. K-NN classifiers are robust in classifying the data with zero cost in learn-
ing process. These classifiers require large datasets with high computation for mixed data. 
The DL can extract the required features based on color, texture, shape and SIFT feature 
extraction processes. The combination of ANN and MLR classifier provided the highest 
accuracy in crop prediction. DL classifiers were used in a wide range of agricultural ap-
plications with an average performance F1 score of 0.8. Errors occurred due to the occlu-
sion of leaves or cluster of fruits. The fruit detection for robot harvesting and yield esti-
mation outperformed using a combination of CNN and linear regression models. The 
need of large datasets as input for training increases the computation time for DL ap-
proach. The SVM classifiers provide high accuracy with improved computation time. The 
fusion of the classifiers with assorted features may improve the computer vision technique 
and DL model. 
 
 

Agronomy 2021, 11, 646 
17 of 22 
 
 
10. Conclusions 
The progression and challenges of various image processing and deep learning clas-
sification techniques in agricultural farm duties were analyzed in this paper. The infer-
ences based on our extensive review is presented below: 
 
The review highlighted the merits and demerits of different machine vision and deep 
learning techniques along with their various performance metrics. 
 
The pertinence of diverse techniques for yield prediction with the bloom intensity 
estimation helps farmers improve their crop yields at the early stage. 
 
The fruit detection and counting models with image analysis and feature extraction 
for classifiers technologically advance the crop yield estimation and robot harvesting. 
 
The combination of various hand-crafted features using hybrid DL models improves 
the computational efficiency and reduces the computation time. 
 
The deep learning models outperform the other conventional image processing tech-
niques with an average accuracy of 92.51% in diverse agricultural applications. 
As future work, hybrid techniques of machine vision and deep learning models can 
be applied to develop automated systems for precision agriculture. The methods high-
lighted in this paper can be tested for real-time crop yield estimation applications. Inno-
vative methods with the objective of improving the performance of the overall system can 
be also developed. 
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, P.D.; Data Collection, B.D., S.P.; Formal Analysis, B.D.; 
Document preparation, B.D., P.D., S.P., D.E.P., and D.J.H.; Supervision, P.D., D.E.P., D.J.H. All au-
thors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript. 
Funding: This research received no external funding. 
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest.  
Abbreviations  
The abbreviations used in this manuscript are given as under:  
CCE 
Crop Cutting Experiments 
GPS 
Global Positioning System 
PMFBY 
Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana 
UAV 
Unmanned Aerial Vehicle 
UGV 
Unmanned Ground Vehicle 
GNSS 
Global Navigation Satellite System 
NIR 
Near Infra-Red 
DL 
Deep Learning 
ML 
Machine Learning 
MSCR 
Maximally Stable Color Region 
SfM 
Structure from Motion 
SIFT 
Scale-Invariant Feature Transform 
HOG 
Histograms of Oriented Gradients 
NMS 
Non-Maximum Suppression 
PCA 
Principal Component Analysis 
CNN 
Convolution Neural Network 
FRCNN 
Faster Region Convolution Neural Network 
DCNN 
Deep Convolutional Neural Network 
KNN 
K-nearest neighbour 
SVM 
Support Vector Machine 
SNN 
Spiking Neural Network 
MLR 
Multiple Linear Regression 
ERT 
Extremely Randomized Trees 

Agronomy 2021, 11, 646 
18 of 22 
 
 
RF 
Random Forest 
RFR 
Random Forest Regression 
BRT 
Boosted Regression Tree 
SVR 
Support Vector Regression 
BPNN 
Backpropagation Neural Network 
LDA 
Linear Discriminant Analysis 
DT 
Decision Trees 
VGG 
Visual Geometry Group 
RVM 
Relevance Vector Machine 
RCNN 
Region based Convolutional Neural Network 
FRBCS 
Fuzzy Rule-Based Classification Approach 
LPT 
Laplacian Pyramid Transform 
LAI 
Leaf Area Index 
GPP 
Gross Primary Production 
FPAR 
Fraction of Photosynthetically Active Radiation 
ET 
Evapotranspiration 
SM 
Soil Moisture 
EVI 
Enhanced Vegetation Index 
NDVI 
Normalized Difference Vegetation Indices 
UGV 
Unmanned Ground Vehicle 
UAV 
Unmanned Aerial Vehicle 
NBV 
next-best view 
GTSP 
Generalized Travelling Salesman Problem 
ROIs 
Regions of Interests 
NDI 
Network Device Interface 
IoU 
Intersection of Union 
FCR 
False Color Removal 
YOLO 
You Only Look Once 
ANN 
Artificial Neural Network 
ResNet 
Residual Neural Network 
SURF 
Speeded-UP Robust Features 
References 
1. 
Adamchuk, V.I.; Hummel, J.W.; Morgan, M.K.; Upadhyaya, S. On-the-go soil sensors for precision agriculture. Comput. Electron. 
Agric. 2004, 44, 71–91, doi:10.1016/j.compag.2004.03.002. 
2. 
Perez-Ruiz, M.; Slaughter, D.C.; Gliever, C.; Upadhyaya, S.K. Tractor-based Real-time Kinematic-Global Positioning System 
(RTK-GPS) guidance system for geospatial mapping of row crop transplant. Biosyst. Eng. 2012, 111, 64–71, doi:10.1016/j.biosys-
temseng.2011.10.009. 
3. 
Pastor-Guzman, J.; Dash, J.; Atkinson, P.M. Remote sensing of mangrove forest phenology and its environmental drivers. Remote 
Sens. Environ. 2018, 205, 71–84, doi:10.1016/j.rse.2017.11.009. 
4. 
Zhang, X.; Friedl, M.A.; Schaaf, C.B.; Strahler, A.H.; Hodges, J.C.F.; Gao, F.; Reed, B.C.; Huete, A. Monitoring vegetation phe-
nology using MODIS. Remote Sens. Environ. 2003, 84, 471–475, doi:10.1016/s0034-4257(02)00135-9. 
5. 
Tiwari, R.; Chand, K.; Anjum, B. Crop insurance in India: A review of Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY). FIIB Bus. 
Rev. 2020, 9, 249–255, doi:10.1177/2319714520966084. 
6. 
Dorj, U.-O.; Lee, M.; Yun, S.-S. An yield estimation in citrus orchards via fruit detection and counting using image processing. 
Comput. Electron. Agric. 2017, 140, 103–112, doi:10.1016/j.compag.2017.05.019. 
7. 
Singh, R.; Goyal, R.C.; Saha, S.K.; Chhikara, R.S. Use of satellite spectral data in crop yield estimation surveys. Int. J. Remote Sens. 
1992, 13, 2583–2592, doi:10.1080/01431169208904065. 
8. 
Ferencz, C.; Bognár, P.; Lichtenberger, J.; Hamar, D.; Tarcsai, G.; Timár, G.; Molnár, G.; Pásztor, S.; Steinbach, P.; Székely, B.; et 
al. Crop yield estimation by satellite remote sensing. Int. J. Remote Sens. 2004, 25, 4113–4149, doi:10.1080/01431160410001698870. 
9. 
Dias, P.A.; Tabb, A.; Medeiros, H. Multispecies fruit flower detection using a refined semantic segmentation network. IEEE 
Robot. Autom. Lett. 2018, 3, 3003–3010, doi:10.1109/lra.2018.2849498. 

Agronomy 2021, 11, 646 
19 of 22 
 
 
10. 
Hong, H.; Lin, J.; Huang, F. Tomato disease detection and classification by deep learning. In Proceedings of the 2020 Interna-
tional Conference on Big Data, Artificial Intelligence and Internet of Things Engineering (ICBAIE), Fuzhou, China, 12-14 June, 
2020; p. 0001. 
11. 
Liu, J.; Wang, X. Tomato diseases and pests detection based on improved YOLO V3 convolutional neural network. Front. Plant 
Sci. 2020, 11, 1–12, doi:10.3389/fpls.2020.00898. 
12. 
Bulanon, D.; Kataoka, T.; Ota, Y.; Hiroma, T. AE—automation and emerging technologies: a segmentation algorithm for the 
automatic recognition of Fuji apples at harvest. Biosyst. Eng. 2002, 83, 405–412, doi:10.1006/bioe.2002.0132. 
13. 
Wan, P.; Toudeshki, A.; Tan, H.; Ehsani, R. A methodology for fresh tomato maturity detection using computer vision. Comput. 
Electron. Agric. 2018, 146, 43–50, doi:10.1016/j.compag.2018.01.011. 
14. 
Payne, A.B.; Walsh, K.B.; Subedi, P.P.; Jarvis, D. Estimation of mango crop yield using image analysis–Segmentation method. 
Comput. Electron. Agric. 2013, 91, 57–64, doi:10.1016/j.compag.2012.11.009. 
15. 
Xiang, R.; Ying, Y.; Jiang, H. Research on image segmentation methods of tomato in natural conditions. In Proceedings of the 
2011 4th International Congress on Image and Signal Processing, Shanghai, China, 15–17 October, 2011; pp. 1268–1272. 
16. 
Xiong, Y.; Ge, Y.; Grimstad, L.; From, P.J. An autonomous strawberry-harvesting robot: Design, development, integration, and 
field evaluation. J. Field Robot. 2020, 37, 202–224, doi:10.1002/rob.21889. 
17. 
Horng, G.-J.; Liu, M.-X.; Chen, C.-C. The smart image recognition mechanism for crop harvesting system in intelligent agricul-
ture. IEEE Sensors J. 2020, 20, 2766–2781, doi:10.1109/jsen.2019.2954287. 
18. 
Hua, Y.; Zhang, N.; Yuan, X.; Quan, L.; Yang, J.; Nagasaka, K.; Zhou, X.-G. Recent advances in intelligent automated fruit har-
vesting robots. Open Agric. J. 2019, 13, 101–106, doi:10.2174/1874331501913010101. 
19. 
Silwal, A.; Davidson, J.R.; Karkee, M.; Mo, C.; Zhang, Q.; Lewis, K. Design, integration, and field evaluation of a robotic apple 
harvester. J. Field Robot. 2017, 34, 1140–1159, doi:10.1002/rob.21715. 
20. 
Pajares, G.; García-Santillán, I.; Campos, Y.; Montalvo, M.; Guerrero, J.M.; Emmi, L.A.; Romeo, J.; Guijarro, M.; Gonzalez-De-
Santos, P. Machine-vision systems selection for agricultural vehicles: A guide. J. Imaging 2016, 2, 34, doi:10.3390/jimag-
ing2040034. 
21. 
Rehman, T.U.; Mahmud, M.S.; Chang, Y.K.; Jin, J.; Shin, J. Current and future applications of statistical machine learning algo-
rithms for agricultural machine vision systems. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2019, 156, 585–605, doi:10.1016/j.compag.2018.12.006. 
22. 
Bini, D.; Pamela, D.; Prince, S. Machine vision and machine learning for intelligent agrobots: A review. In Proceedings of the 
2020 5th International Conference on Devices, Circuits and Systems (ICDCS), Coimbatore, India, 5-6 March, 2020, pp. 12–16, 
doi:10.1109/ICDCas487h;16.2020.243538. 
23. 
Font, D.; Tresanchez, M.; Martínez, D.; Moreno, J.; Clotet, E.; Palacín, J. Vineyard yield estimation based on the analysis of high 
resolution images obtained with artificial illumination at night. Sensors (Switz.) 2015, 15, 8284–8301, doi:10.3390/s150408284. 
24. 
Sa, I.; Ge, Z.; Dayoub, F.; Upcroft, B.; Perez, T.; McCool, C. Deepfruits: A fruit detection system using deep neural networks. 
Sensors (Switz.d) 2016, 16, 1222, doi:10.3390/s16081222. 
25. 
Bulanon, D.; Burks, T.; Alchanatis, V. Image fusion of visible and thermal images for fruit detection. Biosyst. Eng. 2009, 103, 12–
22, doi:10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2009.02.009. 
26. 
Yadav, S.P.; Ibaraki, Y.; Gupta, S.D. Estimation of the chlorophyll content of micropropagated potato plants using RGB based 
image analysis. Plant Cell, Tissue Organ Cult. (PCTOC) 2009, 100, 183–188, doi:10.1007/s11240-009-9635-6. 
27. 
Aggelopoulou, A.D.; Bochtis, D.; Fountas, S.; Swain, K.C.; Gemtos, T.A.; Nanos, G.D. Yield prediction in apple orchards based 
on image processing. Precis. Agric. 2011, 12, 448–456, doi:10.1007/s11119-010-9187-0. 
28. 
Lin, G.; Tang, Y.; Zou, X.; Cheng, J.; Xiong, J. Fruit detection in natural environment using partial shape matching and probabil-
istic Hough transform. Precis. Agric. 2020, 21, 160–177, doi:10.1007/s11119-019-09662-w. 
29. 
Rahnemoonfar, M.; Sheppard, C. Deep count: Fruit counting based on deep simulated learning. Sensors (Switz.) 2017, 17, 905, 
doi:10.3390/s17040905. 
30. 
Wang, Q.; Nuske, S.; Bergerman, M.; Singh, S. Automated crop yield estimation for apple orchards Proc. Int. Symp30. Experi-
mental Robotics. Springer Tract. Adv. Robot. 2012, doi:10.1007/978-3-319-00065-7. 
31. 
Fourie, J.; Hsiao, J.; Werner, A. Crop yield estimation using deep learning. In Proceedings of the 7th Asian-Australasian Conf. 
Precis. Agric., Hamilton, New Zealand, 16 October 2017, pp. 1–10. 
32. 
Hemming, J.; Ruizendaal, J.; Hofstee, J.W.; Van Henten, E.J. Fruit detectability analysis for different camera positions in sweet-
pepper. Sensors (Switz.) 2014, 14, 6032–6044, doi:10.3390/s140406032. 
33. 
Luciani, R.; Laneve, G.; Jahjah, M. Agricultural monitoring, an automatic procedure for crop mapping and yield estimation: The 
great Rift valley of Kenya case. IEEE J. Sel. Top. Appl. Earth Obs. Remote Sens. 2019, 12, 2196–2208, doi:10.1109/jstars.2019.2921437. 
34. 
Moran, M.S.; Inoue, Y.; Barnes, E.M. Opportunities and limitations for image-based remote sensing in precision crop manage-
ment. Remote Sens. Environ. 1997, 61, 319–346, doi:10.1016/s0034-4257(97)00045-x. 
35. 
Aghighi, H.; Azadbakht, M.; Ashourloo, D.; Shahrabi, H.S.; Radiom, S. Machine learning regression techniques for the silage 
maize yield prediction using time-series images of landsat 8 oli. IEEE J. Sel. Top. Appl. Earth Obs. Remote Sens. 2018, 11, 4563–
4577, doi:10.1109/jstars.2018.2823361. 
36. 
Kim, N.; Lee, Y.-W. Machine learning approaches to corn yield estimation using satellite images and climate data: A case of 
Iowa state. J. Korean Soc. Surv. Geodesy Photogramm. Cartogr. 2016, 34, 383–390, doi:10.7848/ksgpc.2016.34.4.383. 
37. 
Kuwata, K.; Shibasaki, Estimating crop yields with deep learning and remotely sensed data. 2015 IEEE Int. Geosci. Remote Sens. 
Symp. Milan, Italy, 26-31 July, 2015, 858–861. 

Agronomy 2021, 11, 646 
20 of 22 
 
 
38. 
Liu, J.; Shang, J.; Qian, B.; Huffman, T.; Zhang, Y.; Dong, T.; Jing, Q.; Martin, T. Crop yield estimation using time-series modis 
data and the effects of cropland masks in Ontario, Canada. Remote Sens. 2019, 11, 2419, doi:10.3390/rs11202419. 
39. 
Fernandez-Ordonez, Y.M.; Soria-Ruiz, J. Maize crop yield estimation with remote sensing and empirical models. In Proceedings 
of the 2017 IEEE International Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium (IGARSS), Texas, USA, 23–28 July-2017; pp. 3035–
3038, Volume 8, doi:10.1109/IGARSS.2017.8127638. 
40. 
Jiang, Z.; Chen, Z.; Chen, J.; Liu, J.; Ren, J.; Li, Z.; Sun, L.; Li, H. Application of crop model data assimilation with a particle filter 
for estimating regional winter wheat yields. IEEE J. Sel. Top. Appl. Earth Obs. Remote Sens. 2014, 7, 4422–4431, 
doi:10.1109/jstars.2014.2316012. 
41. 
Nevavuori, P.; Narra, N.; Lipping, T. Crop yield prediction with deep convolutional neural networks. Comput. Electron. Agric. 
2019, 163, 104859, doi:10.1016/j.compag.2019.104859. 
42. 
Hamner, B.; Bergerman, M.; Singh, S. Autonomous orchard vehicles for specialty crops production. In Proceedings of the 2011 
American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers, Louisville, KT, USA, 7–10 August 2011, p. 1. 
43. 
Winterhalter, W.; Fleckenstein, F.V.; Dornhege, C.; Burgard, W. Crop row detection on tiny plants with the pattern hough trans-
form. IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett. 2018, 3, 3394–3401, doi:10.1109/lra.2018.2852841. 
44. 
Gao, X.; Li, J.; Fan, L.; Zhou, Q.; Yin, K.; Wang, J.; Song, C.; Huang, L.; Wang, Z. Review of wheeled mobile robots&rsquo; 
navigation problems and application prospects in agriculture. IEEE Access 2018, 6, 49248–49268, doi:10.1109/ac-
cess.2018.2868848. 
45. 
Zhong, J.; Cheng, H.; He, L.; Ouyang, F. Decentralized full coverage of unknown areas by multiple robots with limited visibility 
sensing. IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett. 2019, 4, 338–345, doi:10.1109/lra.2018.2890451. 
46. 
Le, T.D.; Ponnambalam, V.R.; Gjevestad, J.G.O.; From, P.J. A low-cost and efficient autonomous row-following robot for food 
production in polytunnels. J. Field Robot. 2020, 37, 309–321, doi:10.1002/rob.21878. 
47. 
Wu, C.; Zeng, R.; Pan, J.; Wang, C.C.L.; Liu, Y.-J. Plant phenotyping by deep-learning-based planner for multi-robots. IEEE 
Robot. Autom. Lett. 2019, 4, 3113–3120, doi:10.1109/lra.2019.2924125. 
48. 
Alencastre-Miranda, M.; Davidson, J.R.; Johnson, R.M.; Waguespack, H.; Krebs, H.I. Robotics for sugarcane cultivation: Analysis 
of billet quality using computer vision. IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett. 2018, 3, 3828–3835, doi:10.1109/lra.2018.2856999. 
49. 
Kurita, H.; Iida, M.; Cho, W.; Suguri, M. Rice autonomous harvesting: Operation framework. J. Field Robot. 2017, 34, 1084–1099, 
doi:10.1002/rob.21705. 
50. 
Zhang, T.; Huang, Z.; You, W.; Lin, J.; Tang, X.; Huang, H.; Huang An autonomous fruit and vegetable harvester with a low-
cost gripper using a 3D sensor. Sensors (Switz.) 2019, 20, 93, doi:10.3390/s20010093. 
51. 
Kaljaca, D.; Vroegindeweij, B.; Van Henten, E. Coverage trajectory planning for a bush trimming robot arm. J. Field Robot. 2019, 
37, 283–308, doi:10.1002/rob.21917. 
52. 
Bac, C.W.; Van Henten, E.J.; Hemming, J.; Edan, Y. Harvesting robots for high-value crops: State-of-the-art review and chal-
lenges ahead. J. Field Robot. 2014, 31, 888–911, doi:10.1002/rob.21525. 
53. 
Williams, H.; Ting, C.; Nejati, M.; Jones, M.H.; Penhall, N.; Lim, J.; Seabright, M.; Bell, J.; Ahn, H.S.; Scarfe, A.; et al. Improve-
ments to and large-scale evaluation of a robotic kiwifruit harvester. J. Field Robot. 2020, 37, 187–201, doi:10.1002/rob.21890. 
54. 
Ji, W.; Qian, Z.; Xu, B.; Tang, W.; Li, J.; Zhao, D. Grasping damage analysis of apple by end-effector in harvesting robot. J. Food 
Process. Eng. 2017, 40, e12589, doi:10.1111/jfpe.12589. 
55. 
McCool, C.S.; Beattie, J.; Firn, J.; Lehnert, C.; Kulk, J.; Bawden, O.; Russell, R.; Perez, T. Efficacy of mechanical weeding tools: A 
study into alternative weed management strategies enabled by robotics. IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett. 2018, 3, 1184–1190, 
doi:10.1109/lra.2018.2794619. 
56. 
Adamides, G.; Katsanos, C.; Constantinou, I.; Christou, G.; Xenos, M.; Hadzilacos, T.; Edan, Y. Design and development of a 
semi-autonomous agricultural vineyard sprayer: Human-robot interaction aspects. J. Field Robot. 2017, 34, 1407–1426, 
doi:10.1002/rob.21721. 
57. 
Ko, M.H.; Ryuh, B.-S.; Kim, K.C.; Suprem, A.; Mahalik, N.P. Autonomous greenhouse mobile robot driving strategies from 
system integration perspective: Review and application. IEEE/ASME Trans. Mechatron. 2014, 20, 1705–1716, 
doi:10.1109/tmech.2014.2350433. 
58. 
Berenstein, R.; Edan, Y. Human-robot collaborative site-specific sprayer. J. Field Robot. 2017, 34, 1519–1530, 
doi:10.1002/rob.21730. 
59. 
Gongal, A.; Amatya, S.; Karkee, M.; Zhang, Q.; Lewis, K. Sensors and systems for fruit detection and localization: A review. 
Comput. Electron. Agric. 2015, 116, 8–19, doi:10.1016/j.compag.2015.05.021. 
60. 
Fernandez, B.; Herrera, P.J.; Cerrada, J.A. A simplified optimal path following controller for an agricultural skid-steering robot. 
IEEE Access 2019, 7, 95932–95940, doi:10.1109/access.2019.2929022. 
61. 
Cheein, F.A.; Torres-Torriti, M.; Hopfenblatt, N.B.; Prado, Álvaro, J.; Calabi, D. Agricultural service unit motion planning under 
harvesting scheduling and terrain constraints. J. Field Robot. 2017, 34, 1531–1542, doi:10.1002/rob.21738. 
62. 
Arad, B.; Balendonck, J.; Barth, R.; Ben-Shahar, O.; Edan, Y.; Hellström, T.; Hemming, J.; Kurtser, P.; Ringdahl, O.; Tielen, T.; et 
al. Development of a sweet pepper harvesting robot. J. Field Robot. 2020, 37, 1027–1039, doi:10.1002/rob.21937. 
63. 
Senthilnath, J.; Dokania, A.; Kandukuri, M.; Ramesh, K.N.; Anand, G.; Omkar, S.N. Detection of tomatoes using spectral-spatial 
methods in remotely sensed RGB images captured by UAV. Biosyst. Eng. 2016, 146, 16–32, doi:10.1016/j.biosystem-
seng.2015.12.003. 

Agronomy 2021, 11, 646 
21 of 22 
 
 
64. 
Murugan, D.; Garg, A.; Singh, D. Development of an adaptive approach for precision agriculture monitoring with drone and 
satellite data. IEEE J. Sel. Top. Appl. Earth Obs. Remote Sens. 2017, 10, 5322–5328, doi:10.1109/jstars.2017.2746185. 
65. 
Kim, J.; Kim, S.; Ju, C.; Son, H.I. Unmanned aerial vehicles in agriculture: A review of perspective of platform, control, and 
applications. IEEE Access 2019, 7, 105100–105115, doi:10.1109/access.2019.2932119. 
66. 
Ashapure, A.; Oh, S.; Marconi, T.G.; Chang, A.; Jung, J.; Landivar, J.; Enciso, J. Unmanned aerial system based tomato yield 
estimation using machine learning. In Proceedings of the Autonomous Air and Ground Sensing Systems for Agricultural Opti-
mization and Phenotyping IV. International Society for Optics and Photonics, 11–15 August, 2019; p. 110080O, 
doi:10.1117/12.2519129. 
67. 
Fernández, R.; Montes, H.; Surdilovic, J.; Surdilovic, D.; Gonzalez-De-Santos, P.; Armada, M.; Surdilovic, D. Automatic detection 
of field-grown cucumbers for robotic harvesting. IEEE Access 2018, 6, 35512–35527, doi:10.1109/access.2018.2851376. 
68. 
Meyer, G.E.; Neto, J.C. Verification of color vegetation indices for automated crop imaging applications. Comput. Electron. Agric. 
2008, 63, 282–293, doi:10.1016/j.compag.2008.03.009. 
69. 
Li, H.; Lee, W.S.; Wang, K. Immature green citrus fruit detection and counting based on fast normalized cross correlation 
(FNCC) using natural outdoor colour images. Precis. Agric. 2016, 17, 678–697, doi:10.1007/s11119-016-9443-z. 
70. 
Garcia, L.; Parra, L.; Basterrechea, D.A.; Jimenez, J.M.; Rocher, J.; Parra, M.; García-navas, J.L.; Sendra, S.; Lloret, J.; Lorenz, P.; 
et al. Quantifying the production of fruit-bearing trees using image processing techniques. Proc. INNOV 2019 Eighth Int. Conf. 
Commun. Comput. Netw. Technol. Valencia, Spain. 24 – 28 Novemeber, 2019, 14–19. 
71. 
Bargoti, S.; Underwood, J.P. Image segmentation for fruit detection and yield estimation in apple orchards. J. Field Robot. 2017, 
34, 1039–1060, doi:10.1002/rob.21699. 
72. 
Zhao, Y.; Gong, L.; Zhou, B.; Huang, Y.; Liu, C. Detecting tomatoes in greenhouse scenes by combining AdaBoost classifier and 
colour analysis. Biosyst. Eng. 2016, 148, 127–137, doi:10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2016.05.001. 
73. 
Hu, C.; Liu, X.; Pan, Z.; Li, P. Automatic detection of single ripe tomato on plant combining faster R-CNN and intuitionistic 
fuzzy set. IEEE Access 2019, 7, 154683–154696, doi:10.1109/access.2019.2949343. 
74. 
Kurtulmus, F.; Lee, W.S.; Vardar, A. Green citrus detection using ‘eigenfruit’, color and circular Gabor texture features under 
natural outdoor conditions. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2011, 78, 140–149, doi:10.1016/j.compag.2011.07.001. 
75. 
Gong, A.; Yu, J.; He, Y.; Qiu, Z. Citrus yield estimation based on images processed by an Android mobile phone. Biosyst. Eng. 
2013, 115, 162–170, doi:10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2013.03.009. 
76. 
Sharma, P.; Berwal, Y.P.S.; Ghai, W. Performance analysis of deep learning CNN models for disease detection in plants using 
image segmentation. Inf. Process. Agric. 2020, 7, 566–574, doi:10.1016/j.inpa.2019.11.001. 
77. 
Gim, J.; Gonz, J.D.; Jim, M.; Toledo-moreo, A.B.; Soto-valles, F.; Torres-s, R. Segmentation of multiple tree leaves pictures with 
natural backgrounds using deep learning for image-based agriculture applications. Appl. Sci. 2019, 10, 202. 
78. 
Vitzrabin, E.; Edan, Y. Changing task objectives for improved sweet pepper detection for robotic harvesting. IEEE Robot. Autom. 
Lett. 2016, 1, 578–584, doi:10.1109/lra.2016.2523553. 
79. 
Yamamoto, K.; Guo, W.; Yoshioka, Y.; Ninomiya, S. On plant detection of intact tomato fruits using image analysis and machine 
learning methods. Sensors (Switz.) 2014, 14, 12191–12206, doi:10.3390/s140712191. 
80. 
Zhou, R.; Damerow, L.; Sun, Y.; Blanke, M.M. Using colour features of cv. ‘Gala’ apple fruits in an orchard in image processing 
to predict yield. Precis. Agric. 2012, 13, 568–580, doi:10.1007/s11119-012-9269-2. 
81. 
Rakun, J.; Stajnko, D.; Zazula, D. Detecting fruits in natural scenes by using spatial-frequency based texture analysis and mul-
tiview geometry. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2011, 76, 80–88, doi:10.1016/j.compag.2011.01.007. 
82. 
Botterill, T.; Paulin, S.; Green, R.; Williams, S.; Lin, J.; Saxton, V.; Mills, S.; Chen, X.Q.; Corbett-Davies, S. A robot system for 
pruning grape vines. J. Field Robot. 2017, 34, 1100–1122, doi:10.1002/rob.21680. 
83. 
Nuske, S.; Gupta, K.; Narasimhan, S.; Singh, S. Modeling and calibrating visual yield estimates in vineyards. Springer Tracts Adv. 
Robot. 2013, 92, 343–356, doi:10.1007/978-3-642-40686-7_23. 
84. 
Bosilj, P.; Duckett, T.; Cielniak, G. Analysis of morphology-based features for classification of crop and weeds in precision agri-
culture. IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett. 2018, 3, 2950–2956, doi:10.1109/lra.2018.2848305. 
85. 
Liu, X.; Chen, S.W.; Liu, C.; Shivakumar, S.S.; Das, J.; Taylor, C.J.; Underwood, J.P.; Kumar, V. Monocular camera based fruit 
counting and mapping with semantic data association. IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett. 2019, 4, 2296–2303, doi:10.1109/lra.2019.2901987. 
86. 
Liu, S.; Whitty, M. Automatic grape bunch detection in vineyards with an SVM classifier. J. Appl. Log. 2015, 13, 643–653, 
doi:10.1016/j.jal.2015.06.001. 
87. 
Liu, G.; Mao, S.; Kim, J.H. A mature-tomato detection algorithm using machine learning and color analysis. Sensors (Switz.) 
2019, 19, 2023, doi:10.3390/s19092023. 
88. 
Gonzalez-Sanchez, A.; Frausto-Solis, J.; Ojeda-Bustamante, W. Predictive ability of machine learning methods for massive crop 
yield prediction. Span. J. Agric. Res. 2014, 12, 313, doi:10.5424/sjar/2014122-4439. 
89. 
Picon, A.; Alvarez-Gila, A.; Seitz, M.; Ortiz-Barredo, A.; Echazarra, J.; Johannes, A. Deep convolutional neural networks for 
mobile capture device-based crop disease classification in the wild. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2019, 161, 280–290, 
doi:10.1016/j.compag.2018.04.002. 
90. 
Wu, J.; Zhang, B.; Zhou, J.; Xiong, Y.; Gu, B.; Yang, X. Automatic recognition of ripening tomatoes by combining multi-feature 
fusion with a BI-layer classification strategy for harvesting robots. Sensors (Switz.) 2019, 19, 612, doi:10.3390/s19030612. 
91. 
Schor, N.; Bechar, A.; Ignat, T.; Dombrovsky, A.; Elad, Y.; Berman, S. Robotic disease detection in greenhouses: Combined de-
tection of powdery mildew and tomato spotted wilt virus. IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett. 2016, 1, 354–360, doi:10.1109/lra.2016.2518214. 

Agronomy 2021, 11, 646 
22 of 22 
 
 
92. 
Lee, J.; Nazki, H.; Baek, J.; Hong, Y.; Lee, M. Artificial intelligence approach for tomato detection and mass estimation in preci-
sion agriculture. Sustainability 2020, 12, 91–1538, doi:10.3390/su12219138. 
93. 
Alajrami, M.A.; Abunaser, S.S. Type of tomato classification using deep learning. Int. J. Acad. Pedagog. Res. 2020, 3, 21–25. 
94. 
Birrell, S.; Hughes, J.; Cai, J.Y.; Iida, F. A field-tested robotic harvesting system for iceberg lettuce. J. Field Robot. 2019, 37, 225–
245, doi:10.1002/rob.21888. 
95. 
Santos, T.T.; De Souza, L.L.; Dos Santos, A.A.; Avila, S. Grape detection, segmentation, and tracking using deep neural networks 
and three-dimensional association. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2020, 170, 105247, doi:10.1016/j.compag.2020.105247. 
96. 
Koirala, A.; Walsh, K.B.; Wang, Z.; Anderson, N. Deep learning for mango (Mangifera Indica) panicle stage classification. Agron-
omy 2020, 10, 143, doi:10.3390/agronomy10010143. 
97. 
Bender, A.; Whelan, B.; Sukkarieh, S. A high-resolution, multimodal data set for agricultural robotics: A Ladybird ’s-eye view 
of Brassica. J. Field Robot. 2020, 37, 73–96, doi:10.1002/rob.21877. 
98. 
Bose, P.; Kasabov, N.K.; Bruzzone, L.; Hartono, R.N. Spiking neural networks for crop yield estimation based on spatiotemporal 
analysis of image time series. IEEE Trans. Geosci. Remote Sens. 2016, 54, 6563–6573, doi:10.1109/tgrs.2016.2586602. 
99. 
Kaul, M.; Hill, R.L.; Walthall, C. Artificial neural networks for corn and soybean yield prediction. Agric. Syst. 2005, 85, 1–18, 
doi:10.1016/j.agsy.2004.07.009. 
100. Pourdarbani, R.; Sabzi, S.; Hernández-Hernández, M.; Hernández-Hernández, J.L.; García-Mateos, G.; Kalantari, D.; Molina-
Martínez, J.M. Comparison of different classifiers and the majority voting rule for the detection of plum fruits in garden condi-
tions. Remote Sens. 2019, 11, 1–17, doi:10.3390/rs11212546. 
101. Cheng, H.; Damerow, L.; Sun, Y.; Blanke, M. Early yield prediction using image analysis of apple fruit and tree canopy features 
with neural networks. J. Imaging 2017, 3, 6, doi:10.3390/jimaging3010006. 
102. Tran, T.-T.; Choi, J.-W.; Le, T.-T.H.; Kim, J.-W. A comparative study of deep CNN in forecasting and classifying the macronutri-
ent deficiencies on development of tomato plant. Appl. Sci. 2019, 9, 1601, doi:10.3390/app9081601. 
103. Ferentinos, K.P. Deep learning models for plant disease detection and diagnosis. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2018, 145, 311–318, 
doi:10.1016/j.compag.2018.01.009. 
104. Yang, K.; Zhong, W.; Li, F. Leaf segmentation and classification with a complicated background using deep learning. Agronomy 
2020, 10, 1721, doi:10.3390/agronomy10111721. 
105. Brahimi, M.; Boukhalfa, K.; Moussaoui, A. Deep learning for tomato diseases: Classification and symptoms visualization. Appl. 
Artif. Intell. 2017, 31, 299–315, doi:10.1080/08839514.2017.1315516. 
106. Da Costa, A.Z.; Figueroa, H.E.H.; Fracarolli, J.A. Computer vision based detection of external defects on tomatoes using deep 
learning. Biosyst. Eng. 2020, 190, 131–144, doi:10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2019.12.003. 
107. Sun, J.; He, X.; Ge, X.; Wu, X.; Shen, J.; Song, Y. Detection of key organs in tomato based on deep migration learning in a complex 
background. Agriculture 2018, 8, 196, doi:10.3390/agriculture8120196. 
108. Ramesh, S.; Hebbar, R.; Niveditha, M.; Pooja, R.; Shashank, N.; Vinod, P.V. Plant disease detection using machine learning. In 
Proceedings of the 2018 International Conference on Design Innovations for 3Cs Compute Communicate Control (ICDI3C) 
Bengaluru, India 24 – 26 April, 2018; pp. 41–45, doi:10.1109/ICDI3C.2018.00017. 
109. Goel, N.; Sehgal, P. Fuzzy classification of pre-harvest tomatoes for ripeness estimation–An approach based on automatic rule 
learning using decision tree. Appl. Soft Comput. 2015, 36, 45–56, doi:10.1016/j.asoc.2015.07.009. 
110. Mureşan, H.; Oltean, M. Fruit recognition from images using deep learning. Acta Univ. Sapientiae Inform. 2018, 10, 26–42, 
doi:10.2478/ausi-2018-0002. 
111. Gené-Mola, J.; Gregorio, E.; Guevara, J.; Auat, F.; Sanz-Cortiella, R.; Escolà, A.; Llorens, J.; Morros, J.-R.; Ruiz-Hidalgo, J.; Vi-
laplana, V.; et al. Fruit detection in an apple orchard using a mobile terrestrial laser scanner. Biosyst. Eng. 2019, 187, 171–184, 
doi:10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2019.08.017. 
112. Zhang, L.; Jia, J.; Gui, G.; Hao, X.; Gao, W.; Wang, M. Deep learning based improved classification system for designing tomato 
harvesting robot. IEEE Access 2018, 6, 67940–67950, doi:10.1109/access.2018.2879324. 
113. Gopal, P.S.M.; Bhargavi, R. A novel approach for efficient crop yield prediction. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2019, 165, 104968, 
doi:10.1016/j.compag.2019.104968. 
114. Halstead, M.A.; McCool, C.S.; Denman, S.; Perez, T.; Fookes, C. Fruit quantity and ripeness estimation using a robotic vision 
system. IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett. 2018, 3, 2995–3002, doi:10.1109/lra.2018.2849514. 
115. Song, Y.; Glasbey, C.A.; Horgan, G.W.; Polder, G.; Dieleman, J.A.; van der Heijden, G.W.A.M. Automatic fruit recognition and 
counting from multiple images. Biosyst. Eng. 2014, 118, 203–215, doi:10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2013.12.008. 
