Loose Fruitlet and Fresh Fruit Bunch Detection for 
Palm Oil Harvest Management 
Marizuana Mat Daud 
Advanced Intelligence Lab 
MIMOS Berhad 
Technology Park Malaysia, Kuala 
Lumpur, Malaysia 
marizuana.daud@mimos.my 
Zulaikha Kadim 
Advanced Intelligence Lab 
MIMOS Berhad 
Technology Park Malaysia, Kuala 
Lumpur, Malaysia 
zulaikha.kadim@mimos.my 
Hon Hock Woon 
Advanced Intelligence Lab 
MIMOS Berhad 
Technology Park Malaysia, Kuala 
Lumpur, Malaysia 
hockwoon.hon@mimos.my 
 
 
Abstract— The palm oil industry can be considered one of 
the crucial industries, especially in Asian countries like Malaysia 
and Indonesia. The production flow is depending on the 
efficiency of the palm oil harvest management. The management 
during harvest time includes collecting and counting the fresh 
fruit bunch (FFB) and loose fruitlet (LF) production. Thus, in 
this paper, we proposed a method that able to detect and count 
the FFB and LF production automatically. The as-proposed 
method consisted of two parts: (a) fruitlet detection using an 
image processing prior to harvest and (b) palm oil tree, FFB, and 
grabber detection using the Faster R-CNN algorithm during 
harvest time. During the pre-harvest, the number of fruitlets can 
be determined through the status of the tree either by ready-to-
harvest (RTH) or not ready-to-harvest (NRTH). If the status was 
RTH, the system performed tree detection for tagging purposes. 
When they started to harvest, the detection system would detect 
the FFB and grabber. It would then track the grabber until 
overlaps with the FFB location. Then, the system would add the 
FFB to the count module. It means the FFB had been taken to 
the truck. The as-proposed system achieved the detection 
accuracy of 96.5% for FFB, 99.2% for grabber, and 97.2% for 
tree. 
Keywords—fresh fruit bunch, fruitlet, deep learning, image 
processing, harvest management 
I. 
INTRODUCTION 
    
Based on the global vegetable oils consumption statistics from 
2013 to 2022 [1], palm oil maintains the highest consumed 
vegetable oil in the world, followed by oil from other plants 
such as soybean, rapeseed, and sunflower. Palm trees are 
cultivated in tropical countries such as Indonesia and 
Malaysia, where these two countries are the largest and second 
largest producers of palm oil in the world, producing around 
85% of global palm oil [2]. Fig. 1 shows the top 10 exporters 
of palm oil throughout the year 2020 [3]. In Malaysia alone, 
oil palm plantations have reached an area of 5.85 hectares 
since it was first planted commercially in 1917 [4]. 
Surprisingly, this multi-billion-dollar industry still relies 
heavily on manual labor to perform most of the tasks from 
planting to harvesting. In fact, Mosquera et al. [5] reported that 
90% of the harvesting cost goes to the labor payment. 
Therefore, when the country faces foreign labor issues 
nationwide, the industry's productivity is also severely 
affected. It was reported that the industry may suffer losses of 
up to USD$4 billion due to the unpicked fruit rots if the labor 
issue persists [6]. Therefore, the industry is in desire need to 
have automation and mechanization to ease the dependencies 
on manual workers. 
Harvesting is the most labor-intensive task in crop 
management where it starts with the workers’ scout to search 
for ripe fresh fruit bunch (FFB), cutting, collecting, and 
gathering the FFB in the field [7-8]. It is critical to start cutting 
the FFB at the right time to maximize productivity as the oil 
content of the fruits is dependent on their ripeness or maturity 
level. Traditionally, the right time is determined by counting 
the LF on the ground. When there are 1-10 fruits on the 
ground, it indicates that the bunch is already ripe and needs to 
be cut immediately. This harvesting task generally will be 
done by a harvest team or by an individual worker. If the 
harvest is performed by an individual worker, the judgement 
of FFB maturity will be based on his experience which over 
time, he might lose his judgement and consistency in 
consideration, which translated to low labor productivity [9]. 
In this study, an automated system for determining the harvest-
readiness FFB based on detecting and counting loose fruitlet 
(LF) on the ground was presented. The system can be used to 
initially estimate and detect the trees that were ready for 
harvesting. Thus, the plantation manager can use the 
information to plan for the right resources to perform the 
harvest task. The worker can directly go to the identified tree 
to start cutting the bunch. This will indirectly help to increase 
labor productivity.  
During the cutting activity, it was observed that there 
would be more LF detached from the bunch as it hits the 
ground. It was estimated that the majority of fruitlets will be 
scattered around 1.5 to 2.5m from the impact point [10]. These 
LF normally were neglected because of their small size as 
compared to the bunch. However, researches showed that 
these LF contained most of the oil content as compared to 
other attached fruitlets, thus they need to be collected. A study 
[11] showed that the uncollected 20 LF per bunch can 
contribute between 0.97% to 0.37% of OER reduction 
dependent on the age of the tree. This is because these LF 
normally is from the outer layer of the bunch which 
contributed to 40% of the oil content of the whole bunch as 
compared to the middle and the inner layers [12]. Uncollected 
LF also will cause another problem as they will turn into 
weeds or volunteer oil palm seedlings (VOP) [13], which 
requires another effort to clean them up in the future. Thus, it 
is important to collect these LF after the cutting activity to 
maximize crop productivity. However, this collecting task is 
tedious and requires a lot of manual work. For that reason, in 
this study, the as-proposed system is extended to also detect 
and estimate the density of the LF during the FFB collection 
2022 IEEE International Conference on Internet of Things and Intelligence Systems (IoTaIS)
979-8-3503-9645-4/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE
13
2022 IEEE International Conference on Internet of Things and Intelligence Systems (IoTaIS) | 979-8-3503-9645-4/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/IoTaIS56727.2022.9975972
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:45:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

activity. The as-gathered density estimation can be used to 
properly manage the human and machinery resources required 
to perform the loose fruitlet collection. The information also 
can be used to estimate the yield productivity as well as to 
evaluate labor effectiveness.  
In summary, this paper is focusing on two-folds; (1) 
proposing an automated method for detecting and counting LF 
on the ground to determine the right time to start cutting the 
FFB, and (2) an automated method to estimate the number of 
FFB collected for each tree and density of LF on the ground 
during the FFB collection period. The information can be used 
to assist in harvest resource planning and management as well 
as to increase labor productivity during harvesting.   
 
 
II. 
METHODOLOGY 
This paper proposed a harvest management system that 
consisted of two parts; (a) method to detect and estimate the 
number of LF before harvesting by starting to identify tree 
which is ready for cutting, and (b) method to detect and count 
the collected bunch for each tree and estimate the density of 
LF on the ground during the FFB collection activity. The as-
proposed process was described in the pseudocode provided 
in Fig. 2.   
The input to the process is the image sequence and the 
input from the user indicates the current activity either the 
pre-harvesting or during harvesting time. If the activity is pre-
harvesting, the algorithm will first load the tree detection 
model and detect the oil palm tree. The as-detected tree will 
be tracked as it appears in the camera view until it leaves the 
view. As the distance between each tree is quite far (7 to 9 
meters apart) and assuming that the scanning path is only in 
one forward direction, then a simple tree tracking algorithm 
can be applied. To illustrate the tracking step, refer to Fig. 3.  
In Fig. 3, the red box indicates the tracking area. Only tree 
which appears within this tracking area will be tracked and 
analyzed. As the camera is moving in one direction (e.g., left 
to right), a new tree will appear at the rightest part of the 
image first and continue moving to the left part of the image 
before disappearing. All the frames, while the tree is tracked, 
will go through the fruitlet detection step. These frames will 
be further cropped to only include the area within the tree 
trunk before passing to fruitlet detection. Fig. 5 and Fig. 6 
illustrate the method for detecting LF on the ground by 
analyzing the color. The method for detecting fruitlets was 
further discussed in section A. The final estimated number of 
LF for the tracked tree will be determined based on the most 
occurrence number of detected fruitlets per frame. Next, if the 
estimated number of fruitlets is greater than a certain 
threshold, in our case t=3, then the tree will be tagged as 
ready-to-harvest (RTH). Otherwise, it will be tagged as not-
ready-to-harvest (NRTH). 
 
Next, by referring to Fig. 2, if the current activity is for 
harvesting, similarly, the algorithm will first load the tree 
detection model as used in the pre-harvest process. The tree 
detection model is utilizing pretrained faster RCNN model, 
which has been trained using the large COCO database. Using 
the transfer learning approach, the model was then retrained 
 
Fig. 1 Top 10 exporters of palm oil in 2020 [3] 
52.4
31.1
3.01 1.37 1.27 1.21 0.96 0.94 0.82 0.48
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Trade value (x109)
Countries
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3 Illustration of a simple tree tracking algorithm  
Camera movement
Start tree tracking 
End of tree tracking 
Input: image sequence 
Output: fruitlet, tree, FFB and grabber 
Initialization: fruitlet_count =0, detected_ffb=0, collected_ffb=0 
Get user input: h=0 for pre-harvest or h=1 for harvesting 
Do While there is image to be processed  
Read current image 
If h == 0:  //pre-harvest 
      
Load tree detection model 
     
Run inference on current image  
     
If tree is detected: 
         
      Get tree location -> (xmin, ymin, xmax, ymax) 
 
      If tree location is within tracking area: 
 
          Perform tree tracking 
 
          Crop image for fruitlet detection 
 
          Perform fruitlet detection  
          Count number of fruitlets -> fruitlet_count 
                            Store the fruitlet_count for the same tracked tree 
                            If tracked tree is leaving tracking area: 
Estimate the final fruitlet count -> 
final_fruitlet_count 
         
If final_fruitlet_ count > 3: 
             
 
        tree_status= RTH 
         
 
Else: 
             
 
        tree_ status = RNTH 
        Else If h==1: //harvesting 
     
Load tree, FFB & grabber model 
 
Run inference on current image 
 
If tree is detected: 
 
     Perform fruitlet detection 
 
     Estimate fruitlet density 
 
If FFB is detected: 
     
     Get FFB locations 
 
     Count FFB -> detected_ffb  
 
If grabber is detected: 
     
     Get grabber locations  
 
For each detected FFB: 
 
     Compute overlapping between FFB and grabber boxes -> 
intersection_area 
     
     If intersection_area>0: 
 
             Increase number of collected FFB -> collected_ffb++ 
Fig. 2 Pseudocode of the overall algorithm 
2022 IEEE International Conference on Internet of Things and Intelligence Systems (IoTaIS)
14
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:45:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

using our datasets which give one out of three output labels 
as either oil palm tree, FFB, or grabber. Further discussion on 
this detection model was provided in section B. Next, if FFB 
or/and grabber were detected in a frame, the location of these 
detected objects in the frame will be extracted and checked 
against each other to find out whether they are overlapped or 
not. The overlap was determined by finding the pixels areas 
that were common to both bounding boxes of detected FFB 
and grabber, indicated by the intersection area. If in any 
frame, the intersection area is more than zero, it was assumed 
that the grabber has successfully grabbed and collected the 
FFB, thus, the number of collected FFB, ffb_cnt will be 
increased. Then, if there was detected FFB in the frame, the 
process continues to detect LF on the ground and estimate 
their density. Three density level was considered in this work: 
(1) low for the number of fruitlets less than 50; (2) medium 
for the number of fruitlets between 50 to 100; and (3) high for 
the number of fruitlets more than 100. 
A. LF detection algorithm using image processing 
approach 
The process for detecting LF using the image processing 
approach was divided into two parts: (1) offline process to 
determine the detection parameters, which include the 
reference mean for each Lab color channel (µLref, µaref, µbref) 
correspond to fruitlets and the reference tolerance value, tref; 
and (2) online fruitlets detection process. Each process was 
clearly illustrated in Fig. 5 and Fig. 6, respectively. 
By referring to Fig. 5, the offline process requires 
reference images and their corresponding ROI images. ROI 
images are the binary images to indicate the annotated 
bounding box of the fruitlets in reference images. The process 
always starts with the RGB image conversion to Lab color 
space. In this work, Lab color space was chosen as it shows 
good recognition. Then, the ROI region in r was used to mask 
out all pixels other than the pixels within fruitlets bounding 
boxes in the Lab image. Based on these pixels, the means of 
each color channel were computed, denoted as µLref, µaref  and 
 
                                                                                                                     
   
            Fig. 4 Sample of three density levels of loose fruitlets (low, medium, high from left to right) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5 Offline process to determine fruitlets detection parameters 
Convert RGB 
image to LAB 
Masking 
image using r 
Compute mean of 
each color channel 
(ߤ௅௥௘௙, ߤ஺௥௘௙, ߤ஻௥௘௙) 
Compute the difference 
image, δ between pixel’s LAB 
value in r with (ߤ௅௥௘௙,
ߤ஺௥௘௙, ߤ஻௥௘௙) in (1) and (2) 
Reference 
images 
Compute mean and 
standard deviation of 
δ  
Compute the 
tolerance, ݐ௥௘௙ in 
(3)  ࢚࢘
ࢋࢌ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 6 Online process to detect fruitlets 
Convert RGB 
image to LAB 
Compute the difference 
image, δ between all pixels 
and (ߤ௅௥௘௙, ߤ஺௥௘௙, ߤ஻௥௘௙) in (1) 
and (2) 
Cropped 
current 
image 
Threshold delta 
image using ݐ௥௘௙ 
Perform 
morphological 
dilation and tophat 
Count detected 
fruitlets 
2022 IEEE International Conference on Internet of Things and Intelligence Systems (IoTaIS)
15
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:45:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

µbref. Next, the difference between each pixel’s value to this 
reference means was calculated as shown in (1), where n is 
representing each color channel. The final difference value for 
each pixel was calculated using (2). The resultant image from 
this operation was denoted as  ߜ  image. Next, the mean, ߤఋ 
and standard deviation, σδ of these ߜ images were computed. 
These two values were then used to determine the reference 
tolerance value, tref that will be used during the online fruitlet 
detection as the threshold value. The tolerance value was 
calculated as shown in (3). The lowers the tolerance value, the 
weaker the detection. ݀
௡(݅,݆) = |݌௡(݅,݆) −ߤ௡|;݊
= {ܮ,ܽ,ܾ}  
(1) 
 ݀
(݅,݆) = ඥ݀
௟(݅,݆)ଶ+݀
௔(݅,݆)ଶ+݀
௕(݅,݆)ଶ (2) 
ݐ௥௘௙= ߤఋ+ ߪఋ 
 
       (3) 
 
After the detection parameters had been set, the online 
fruitlet detection can be activated. By referring back to the 
pseudocode as presented in Fig. 2, the LF detection would only 
be triggered if an oil palm tree was detected in the current 
frame. The location of the detected tree can be used to 
determine the potential area of LF. Thus, the current image 
will be cropped to this potential area before detecting the LF. 
This potential area may cover the whole weeded area which 
was around 1.5 to 2m from the trunk [14]. But for simplicity, 
in this study, the potential area was covered with the half 
bottom of the image. This cropped image will be the input to 
the detection process. Similar steps were done by converting 
the input image to Lab color space. The difference image, ߜ 
was generated by finding the distance between each pixel’s 
Lab value to the reference means ((1) and (2)) followed by 
thresholding the difference image using the reference 
tolerance value, tref. If the pixel value, ߜ(݅,݆) is less than the 
tref, then the pixel (i,j) is set to be 255, otherwise, it is set as 
zero, resulting in a binary image. Morphological operations 
including the dilation and top-hat were then applied to the 
binary image to remove the noise.  In the final step, the as-
connected component was applied to the binary image and the 
number of connected regions is corresponding to the number 
of detected fruitlets in the current image.   
B. Tree, FFB and grabber detection  
In this section, oil palm tree, FFB, and grabber were the 
object of interest. The method used to perform these object 
detection tasks was using a Faster-RCNN detection model. 
The model was pre-trained using the large-scale object 
detection dataset (MS COCO). The model was further 
retrained via a transfer learning approach to include the 
knowledge from our own datasets. The architecture of Faster-
RCNN consisted of three main modules: 
1) 
Convolutional layer: for extracting appropriate 
features. In this part, filters were trained to extract features in 
the image. The weights of these filters were determined from 
the COCO datasets.  
2) 
Region proposal network (RPN): for generating 
region proposals. In the RPN section, a small neural network 
works on the last feature map of convolutional layers to 
generate several candidate region proposals. These proposals 
were not the final region, they would be filtered out using the 
objectness score. To cater to different object sizes, several 
sizes of anchors with different aspect ratios and scales were 
introduced. 
3) 
Prediction: for detecting the object in the 
proposed regions. The region proposed by RPN could be 
input to the fully connected layer (FC) to predict the object 
class. In this work, only these FC layers were unfrozen during 
the model retraining. The last FC layer was also changed to 
output only based on the three object categories.  
 
In this study, we collected 5013 images with the size of 700 
x 1000 from a smallholder’s plantation area near Sepang, 
Selangor Malaysia. Among the retraining strategies tested 
were varying distribution of data splitting between training, 
testing and validation and varying the number of training 
steps as listed in Table I. Data splitting distribution was 
written in the form of (%training, %testing, %validation). For 
example, (80,10,10) which means that the data was split 
between 80% training, 10% testing, and the last 10% for 
validation. On the other hand, the training steps had been 
tuned gradually from 15x103 to 30x103 and ended with 
50x103.  
 
TABLE I.  
HYPER-PARAMETERS TESTED DURING MODEL RETRAINING 
Hyper-
parameter 
Experiment 
1 
2 
3 
Data splitting
(80, 10, 10)
(70, 20, 10)
(60, 20, 20)
Steps
15,000
30,000
50,000
 
III. 
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
In the overall system, a user would give input to the algorithm 
either 0 for pre-harvest or 1 for during harvest.  Pre-harvest 
would determine the status of palm oil trees based on the 
fruitlets detection output and tree detection for tagging, while 
during the harvest process, FFB and grabber detection results 
were evaluated. During pre-harvest, the RTH or NRTH status 
of the oil palm tree was determined by the number of LF on 
the ground that was closed to the tree. The LF counting 
accuracy was evaluated based on the number of correctly 
detected to the total number of fruitlets on the ground (in (4). 
It can be defined as a confusion matrix; the ratio of the sum of 
true positives (TP) and true negatives (TN) to the total number 
of trials (sum of TP, false positives (FP), false negatives (FN), 
and TN). TP represent correctly detected fruitlet (positive 
class) while TN represents correctly detected background 
(negative class). FP denotes false detected fruitlets such as 
dried leaves falsely detected as fruitlet, while FN is miss 
detection.  The example of the calculation is shown in (5) 
below and by referring to Fig. 7 (a), where there were 18 
fruitlets detected (blue boxes), two FN were highlighted in the 
red circle, and two closely-spaced fruitlets were detected as 
one object (considered as one TP and one FN): 
 
         ܣܿܿ
ݑݎܽܿ
ݕ=்
௉ା்ே்
௉ା்ேାி௉ାிே× 100                        (4) 
               
ଵ଼ା଴
ଵ଼ା଴ା଴ାଷ× 100 = 85.7%                                 (5) 
 
2022 IEEE International Conference on Internet of Things and Intelligence Systems (IoTaIS)
16
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:45:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Another example was given in Fig. 7(b), where there were 
17 LF detected with two of them being false detection (FP) as 
highlighted in the red circle. Thus, the accuracy of this sample 
image was 88.24%. In total, we have evaluated 10 test images 
for a total of about 200 LF with an average accuracy achieved 
was 92.65%. By referring to Fig. 7, most of the LF were 
successfully detected using the as-proposed method. False 
detection (FP) was contributed by the background objects with 
similar colors as fruitlets. For example, in Fig. 7(b), false 
detection was due to the dried leaves. As the proposed fruitlet 
detection method was using color analysis for detection, thus, 
it was expected that any object with an almost similar color 
range to a fruitlet will be falsely detected as well. However, 
cropping the input image based on the as-detected tree location 
will help to reduce the occurrence of false detection. On the 
other hand, for multiple fruitlets that were closed to each other, 
they may be detected as single fruitlet as shown in Fig. 7(a). 
In this case, one fruitlet in the group would be considered as 
correctly detected while the others were considered FN. This 
problem can be further improved by exploring the other 
features of fruitlet such as the shape feature.  
Next, the system is evaluated in terms of the tree, FFB, 
and grabber detection accuracy. Sample detection results are 
shown in Fig. 8, where the total bunch detected in the current 
frame was denoted as the FFB detected, while collected FFB 
is showing the total number of bunches picked up by the 
grabber and put into the truck. The latter is based on the 
overlapping analysis between grabber and FFB bounding 
boxes. The detection accuracy in terms of the mAP at 50% is 
shown in Table II, Table III, and Table IV for different data 
splitting distribution and steps parameters.  
TABLE II.  
DATA SPLITTING WITH (80, 10, 10) 
Steps (x103) 
mAP
FFB
Grabber
Tree
15
95.5
96.8
95.9
30
96.1
97.3
96.7
50
96.6 
98.3 
97.1 
   
                                      
                 
 
 
 
Fig. 7 Illustration of fruitlets detection result; (a) red circles show FN, while red box shows sample of two fruitlets detected as single fruit 
(one TP, one FN); (b) red circle shows two FPs 
Fruitlets: 18 
Fruitlets: 17 
(a) 
(b) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 8 Sample tree, FFB and grabber detection 
Detected FFB: 1 
Collected FFB: 1
Detected FFB: 2 
Collected FFB: 0
2022 IEEE International Conference on Internet of Things and Intelligence Systems (IoTaIS)
17
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:45:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

The results show that the best mAP of FFB (96.6%), grabber 
(99%), and tree (97.1%) was achieved using 70% training 
data, 20% test data, and 10% evaluation data when steps are 
at 50,000.  
Since the detection method would be based on the color 
analysis, the detection results will be affected when there 
were other background objects with a similar color range as 
the fruitlets such as dried leaves in the image. To reduce the 
detection error, a cropping strategy is applied, whereby the 
tree detection box was used to indicate the potential area of 
the LF. The image would then be cropped to cover the area 
near the tree trunk before passing to the fruitlet detection step. 
On the other hand, the as-developed LF detection method can 
also be applied during the harvesting process to estimate the 
density of the LF on the ground when the cut FFB was 
detected. The information can be used to properly manage the 
resources required to perform the LF collecting activity. 
Besides that, the system was also coupled with the FFB and 
grabber detection to estimate the number of as-collected FFB 
based on the overlapping analysis between the FFB and 
grabber detected boxes. 
TABLE III.  
DATA SPLITTING WITH (70, 20, 10) 
Steps (x103) 
mAP
FFB
Grabber
FFB
15
95.4
96.8
96.2
30
96.0
98.4
96.7
50
96.6 
99.0 
97.1 
TABLE IV.  
DATA SPLITTING WITH (60, 20, 20) 
Steps (x103) 
mAP
FFB
Grabber
Tree
15
95.1
96.5
95.8
30
95.9
97.6
96.6
50
96.5 
99.2 
97.2 
IV. 
CONCLUSION 
In this work, the authors have proposed an image-processing-
based method for detecting LF on the ground, which can be 
used to predict the FFB harvest readiness status during the 
pre-harvesting period. The as-proposed system predicts oil 
palm tree status either RTH or NRTH according to the 
number of fruitlets detected. Based on the results presented, 
the counting accuracy of fruitlet detection achieved 92.65% 
on average for 10 test images with 200 total fruitlets. The 
accuracy for FFB, grabber, and tree detection model achieved 
mAP0.5 of 96.6%, 99%, and 97% using the Faster-RCNN 
method. Then, the output can be integrated into a virtual map 
either 2D or 3D map that can show the location and status of 
the tree to assist and manage the plantation management in 
terms of labor and cost management. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
The authors would like to acknowledge MIMOS Berhad for 
supporting this research. 
 
 
  
REFERENCES 
 
[1] US Department of Agriculture; USDA Foreign Agricultural Service, 
“Consumption of vegetable oils worldwide from 2013/14 to 2021/2022, 
by oil type, (in million metric tons),” Statista 2022. 
[2] A. Ahmed, M. Y. Ishak, M. K. Uddin, M. Y. Abd Samad, S. Mukhtar, 
and S. S. Danhassan, “Effects of Some Weather Parameters on Oil Palm 
Production in the Peninsular Malaysia”, 2021 
[3] 
OEC, 
“Palm 
Oil”, 
[Online]. 
Available: 
https://oec.world/en/profile/hs/palm-oil?yearSelector1=tradeYear1. 
[Accessed: 25 July 2022]. 
[4] 
A. Kushairi, M. Ong-Abdullah, B. Nambiappan, A. Hishamuddin, M. 
N. I. Z. Bidin, R. Ghazali, V. Subramaniam, S. Sundram, and G. K. A. 
Parveez, “Oil palm economic performance in Malaysia and R&D 
progress in 2018,” J. Oil Palm Res. 31(2), 2019, pp. 165-194. 
[5] 
Mosquera, M., E. Ruiz, D. Munévar, L. C astro, L. Díaz, and D. López, 
“Costos de producción 2019 para la palmicu ltura colombiana. Estudio 
de referenciación competitiva entre empresas que han adoptado 
mejores prácticas,” Rev. Palmas, 41(4), 2020, pp. 3-16. 
[6] 
L. Lee, R. Latiff & M. M. Chu, “Malaysia firms turn down orders as 
migrant 
labour 
shortage 
hits”, 
2022. 
[online]. 
Available: 
https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/malaysia-firms-turn-down-
orders-migrant-labour-shortage-
hits#:~:text=The%20palm%20oil%20industry%2C%20which,66%20
billion. [Accessed: 3 August 2022]. 
[7] 
E. Ruiz, E. Mesa, M. Mosquera, and J. Barrientos, “Technological factors 
associated with oil palm yield gaps in the Central region in Colombia,” 
Agron. Colomb. 35(2), 2017, pp. 256-264.  
[8] 
Mosquera, M., E. Ruiz, C.A. Fontanilla, M. Valderrama, D.F. López, 
and L.E. Castro, and M.A. González, [Production costs for the 
cultivation of oil palm in Colombia] “Costos de producción para el 
cultivo de la palma de aceite en Colombia,” In: Moreno Y. and E. 
Mantilla (eds.). Mejores prácticas agroindustriales del cultivo de la 
palma de aceite en Colombia. Cenipalma, Bogota, 2017, pp. 427-435.  
[9] 
Castiblanco, J.S. and M. Mosquera, “Evaluación económica de dos 
sistemas de evacuación de fruta: alce manual y cable vía,” Rev. Palmas 
31(1), 2010, pp. 33-42. 
[10] A. Azali, S. A. S. Salim, Z. A. A. Halim, and A. Azahah, “Conceptual 
of mobile oil palm fresh fruit bunch catcher,” Int. J. Agriculture 
Innovations, 4(6), 2015, 1159-1163. 
[11] L. T. Gan, C. Y. Ho, J. S. Chew, and K. S. Lam, “Optimum harvesting 
standards to maximize labour productivity and oil recovery,” PORIM 
International Palm Oil Congress - Update and Vision (Agriculture). 
PORIM, Bangi. 1993, pp. 195-211. 
[12] I. E. Henson, “Ripening, harvesting and transport of oil palm bunches. 
Palm Oil”, Palm Oil. AOCS Press, 2012, pp. 137-162.  
[13] M. Mohamed and A. S. Idris, “Occurrence of common weeds in 
immature plantings of oil palm plantations in Malaysia,” The Planters 
88(1037), 2012, pp. 537-547. 
 
2022 IEEE International Conference on Internet of Things and Intelligence Systems (IoTaIS)
18
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:45:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
