 
 
 
 
Horticulturae 2024, 10, 301. https://doi.org/10.3390/horticulturae10030301 
www.mdpi.com/journal/horticulturae 
Review 
Management Information Systems for Tree Fruit–2. Design of a 
Mango Harvest Forecast Engine 
Hari Krishna Dhonju 1,*, Thakur Bha&arai 1,2, Marcelo H. Amaral 1, Martina Ma)ner 1 and Kerry B. Walsh 1 
1 Institute of Future Farming Systems, Central Queensland University, Rockhampton, QLD 4701, Australia; 
t.bha.arai@cqu.edu.au (T.B.); m.m.amaral@cqumail.com (M.H.A.); k.walsh@cqu.edu.au (K.B.W.) 
2 Thomas Elder Sustainable Agriculture, Elders P/L, Adelaide, SA 5000, Australia 
* Correspondence: harikrishna.dhonju@cqumail.com; Tel.: +61-418-981-361 
Abstract: Spatially enabled yield forecasting is a key component of farm Management Information 
Systems (MISs) for broadacre grain production, enabling management decisions such as variable 
rate fertilization. However, such a capability has been lacking for soft (ﬂeshy)-tree-fruit harvest load, 
with relevant tools for automated assessment having been developed only recently. Such tools in-
clude improved estimates of the heat units required for fruit maturation and in-ﬁeld machine vision 
for ﬂower and fruit count and fruit sizing. Feedback on the need for and issues in forecasting were 
documented. A mango ‘harvest forecast engine’ was designed for the forecasting of harvest timing 
and fruit load, to aid harvest management. Inputs include 15 min interval temperature data per 
orchard block, weekly manual or machine-vision-derived estimates of ﬂowering, and preharvest 
manual or machine-vision-derived estimates of fruit load on an orchard block level across the farm. 
Outputs include predicted optimal harvest time and fruit load, on a per block and per week basis, 
to inform harvest scheduling. Use cases are provided, including forecast of the order of harvest of 
blocks within the orchard, management of harvest windows to match harvesting resources such as 
staﬀ availability, and within block spatial allocation of resources, such as adequate placement of 
harvest ﬁeld bin and frost fans. Design requirements for an eﬀective harvest MIS software artefact 
incorporating the forecast engine are documented, including an integrated database supporting 
spatial query, data analysis, processing and mapping, an integrated geospatial database for manag-
ing of large spatial–temporal datasets, and use of dynamic web map services to enable rapid visu-
alization of large datasets. 
Keywords: estimation; fruit load; geospatial database; orchard; planning; prediction 
 
1. Introduction 
1.1. Need for Harvest Forecast 
Commercial orchards require management of irrigation, plant nutrition, disease and 
pests, and tree canopy architecture to meet agronomic needs, and documentation of labor 
and chemical usage to meet administrative requirements. As reviewed in a companion 
paper [1], the development of electronic Management Information Systems (MISs) for 
tree-fruit management lags behind that for broadacre cropping. The existing orchard 
management systems have focused on issues with regulatory requirements, e.g., chemical 
and labor usage, with capacities more recently developing around management decision 
support, e.g., when to spray chemicals based on weather and pest pressures inputs. 
Of the various management tasks involved in the production of soft tree fruit, the 
annual organization of harvesting is a major event. Harvesting and grading costs repre-
sent approximately 50% of total production costs for soft tree fruit [2], given the current 
need to hand pick most commodities. Summarizing the review of [3], harvest forecast is 
essential to the planning of on-farm resourcing (of labor and materials), transport and 
Citation: Dhonju, H.K.; Bha.arai, T.; 
Amaral, M.H.; MaMner, M.; Walsh, 
K.B. Management Information  
Systems for Tree Fruit. 2. Design of a 
Mango Harvest Forecast Engine. 
Horticulturae 2024, 10, 301. 
h.ps://doi.org/10.3390/ 
horticulturae10030301 
Academic Editors: Xinyang Yu and 
Long Li 
Received: 19 February 2024 
Revised: 9 March 2024 
Accepted: 19 March 2024 
Published: 20 March 2024 
 
Copyright: © 2024 by the authors. 
Licensee MDPI, Basel, SwiMerland. 
This article is an open access article 
distributed under the terms and 
conditions of the Creative Commons 
A.ribution 
(CC 
BY) 
license 
(h.ps://creativecommons.org/license
s/by/4.0/). 

Horticulturae 2024, 10, 301 
2 of 25 
 
 
marketing, with all of these areas having lead times of week if not months. Harvest fore-
casts are integral in some production systems, e.g., those involving processing, given the 
need to co-ordinate input to a central processing plant. Examples include wine grape [4] 
and juice citrus production [5]. The US hazelnut industry provides a (dry) tree-fruit ex-
ample, with a national crop forecast made by the United States Department of Agriculture 
(USDA) based on manual counts of two randomly selected trees in each of 180 randomly 
selected orchards [6]. New tools are also emerging for tree-fruit load estimation, ranging 
from in-orchard machine vision to relationships based on canopy size or vegetation indi-
ces obtained from satellite imagery [7, 8]. The growing requirement for point of origin 
traceability also creates a need for electronic databases for harvest data accessed through 
an information system [9]. 
Large mango farms in Australia each employ hundreds of workers for the short har-
vest season and must organize appropriate labor resources, materials such as packaging, 
and services such as transport. The harvest window is a few weeks in length, with fruit 
harvested either earlier or later than the optimum window, presenting diﬀerent quality 
issues which lower the marketability of the fruit. As mango fruit are climacteric, with a 
low storability, timeliness of harvest and transport is critical. The downstream supply 
chain must organize ripening and marketing for domestic markets, and biosecurity treat-
ments, transport, and marketing for export markets. For example, retailer advertising is 
typically booked six weeks in advance, requiring a forecast of product availability. To 
support this decision making, forward knowledge of harvest timing and load is required. 
Indeed, the earlier and more accurate the forecast, the be.er the harvest can be organized, 
delivering be.er quality and more marketable fruit, and thus higher proﬁtability. 
The forecast of tree-fruit harvest timing and load is a complex task, requiring evalu-
ation of multiple inputs. Inputs include ﬂowering observations, temperature measure-
ments for the calculation of heat units, measurements of fruit maturity a.ributes to sup-
port estimation of the timing of fruit maturation, and fruit count and size measurements 
to support estimation of load [3]. These data types require collection at a range of frequen-
cies, from 15 min interval temperatures records to fruit counts made once or twice in a 
season. 
The current forecast systems used on Australian mango farms and by their marketing 
groups are relatively ‘informal’ systems, relying on nonsystematic manual estimates by 
growers, which are kept on paper or electronic spreadsheets. Manual estimation of ﬂow-
ering level and fruit load can be time-consuming, resource intensive, and inaccurate. In 
consequence, orchard MISs for the forecast of harvest timing and load are relatively im-
mature [1]. 
1.2. Inputs Required for Hearvest Forecast 
Management of any farm requires the delineation of management units. In a tree-
fruit orchard, these land units are blocks of trees of similar management history, viz. 
planting date, cultivar, pruning, soil type, etc., and thus, ideally the trees will have a sim-
ilar physiological status. Homogeneity in time and extent of ﬂowering and fruit load al-
lows for decreased sampling eﬀort. In practice, however, priority is often given to factors 
such as accessibility or irrigation system design, rather than issues such as soil type and 
drainage, resulting in increased variation [10]. 
As covered in a recent review [3], harvest forecasting of a tree-fruit crop requires for-
ward estimation of optimum harvest time and the expected fruit load. The importance of 
temperature-to-rate-of-fruit-development is understood and utilized in forecast models, 
e.g., for banana [11]. Various approaches have been used in the forecast of fruit load, e.g., 
ﬂower counts in strawberry [12] and vegetation spectral indices [13]. These inputs have 
been used in models for the optimization of harvest planning [14]. As a generalization [3], 
the harvest load of a tree-fruit crop can be forecasted early in the season based on correla-
tion to a UAV or satellite-assessed vegetation index (but this may be inaccurate if ﬂoral 
induction is poor), via correlation to canopy ‘surface’ area (but this does not consider 

Horticulturae 2024, 10, 301 
3 of 25 
 
 
height and may perform poorly with fruit-wall production systems), or with input of am-
bient temperatures (e.g., if ﬂoral induction requires a low temperature period). A slightly 
later forecast can be made via correlation to the extent of ﬂowering (but this will be an 
overestimate if pollination conditions, or fruit retention rates, vary from the ‘norm’). Fi-
nally, a late-season forecast can be made via direct count of the fruit on trees, after the 
early fruit development period in which fruit drop occurs. 
For mango speciﬁcally, harvest timing and load forecast for a given orchard can be 
achieved given knowledge of the criteria established in Anderson et al. [3]: 
(a) The cultivar speciﬁc heat unit (also known as the thermal time or Growing Degree 
Days, GDD) maturation requirement from ﬂowering to harvest maturity; 
(b) The time at which a harvest-maturity fruit dry ma.er content (DMC) speciﬁcation 
will be achieved, the time and intensity of ﬂowering events, and orchard temperature 
data. 
While a forecast of harvest load for a given tree block can be achieved given 
knowledge of the following: 
(a) Fruit count; 
(b) Fruit size; 
(c) Fruit marketability (proportion of fruit that are marketable). 
Several sensor technologies and statistical methodologies have been developed that 
aid in the estimation of harvest timing and load (Table 1) [3]. In-ﬁeld temperature can be 
remotely logged in real time using wireless sensors, fruit dry ma.er content can be as-
sessed nondestructively for fruits on trees using handheld near-infrared spectroscopy 
(NIRS), statistically valid sampling strategies provide a foundation to the manual estima-
tion of ﬂowering and fruit count, machine vision can be used for ﬂower and fruit count, 
and statistically valid sampling strategies and machine vision for fruit count and fruit siz-
ing are relevant to the estimation of harvest load. Other approaches for harvest-load esti-
mation use satellite-imagery-derived vegetation indices [15, 16] and UAV-derived canopy 
structure a.ributes [8]. Our research group has reviewed each of these aspects, i.e., the 
forecast of harvest timing based on GDD [17] and/or DMC [18], the forecast of fruit num-
ber [3, 19], and the forecast of fruit size at harvest [20]. 
Table 1. Inputs for a mango harvest timing and load forecast system, with methodology refer-
ences. 
Information 
Input 
Data Source 
Harvest timing 
ﬂowering 
machine vision or manual estimates of the ex-
tent of ﬂowering, per week [3] 
 
GDD 
temperature (daily min and max) [17] 
 
fruit DMC 
NIRS measurement [19] 
ﬂesh color 
destructive visual assessment [18] 
Harvest load  
fruit count 
machine vision or manual estimates [3] 
 
fruit size 
machine vision or manual estimates [21]  
fruit marketability 
manual estimates 
fruit load 
satellite-derived vegetation index imagery 
and historical time series data [15] 
1.3. Aim and Structure 
The current study extends our earlier work on the forecast of the optimum harvest 
time based on the noninvasive measurement of fruit dry ma.er content. Given the avail-
ability of such data sources, it is timely that harvest information management systems be 
developed to translate this ‘data into information’. The aim of the current paper is to cod-
ify how such data can be brought together to create a ‘harvest forecast engine’ and how 

Horticulturae 2024, 10, 301 
4 of 25 
 
 
such an engine could be used in an electronic MIS, managing data into information on 
both harvest load and timing. 
Industry practitioner input on the need for and issues in mango harvest-load forecast 
was sought (Section 3). A review was undertaken of the approaches and tools available 
for the forecasting of harvest timing, i.e., tools for the provision of data on temperature, 
ﬂowering time, and dry ma.er content (Section 4) and for the forecasting of fruit load, i.e., 
for data on fruit numbers and fruit size (Section 5). This section includes farm data to 
illustrate the points raised. Consideration of the use of this data in harvest scheduling and 
other management tasks is presented in Section 6. 
The novelty of the current manuscript lies in the description of the structure of the 
‘harvest forecast engine’. Practical use of such a ‘harvest forecast engine’ requires integra-
tion into a Management Information System with functions for data management, ar-
chival, analysis, visualization, and interpretation [1]. The design requirements for an ef-
fective harvest MIS software artefact are presented in Section 7. While we do not a.empt 
to detail or evaluate the constructed artifact in the current manuscript, we have used out-
puts from a prototype system in illustrating the operation of the forecast engine. 
2. Methodology 
2.1. Data Sources 
As noted, our research group has been active in the development of sensor systems 
relevant to the forecasting of harvest timing and load (Table 1). This work has involved 
on-farm testing, e.g., on 37 orchards across the major mango producing regions of Aus-
tralia for assessment of machine vision technologies [21]. In the current paper, the logic of 
a harvest forecast engine is developed, with data to illustrate these discussions, which 
were obtained from equipment and protocols referenced in Table 1. 
2.2. External Feedback 
‘Industry’ input was sought on the need for, and proposed utility and operation of, 
the ‘harvest forecast engine’. Informal feedback over this period guided the development 
of the system. Feedback from growers, agronomists, and supply chain partners involved 
in these trials was acquired through semi-structured interviews based on the questions 
outlined in Appendix A, occurring over the period 2022–2024 (CQUniversity low risk eth-
ics approval number: 21660). The interviews occurred primarily as electronic one-on-one 
meetings with eight farm managers of medium (>20,000, <50,000 trees) and large (>50,000 
trees) farms, three agronomic advisors or researchers in tropical Australia, and three 
mango marketers. Further, our work on the development of sensor systems (Table 1) in-
volved on-farm data collection, with the sharing of data through a developmental elec-
tronic MIS platform to the host farms, generally within a day of collection. Informal feed-
back over this period guided development of the system. 
3. External Feedback 
The expressed needs for a documented harvest forecast (Table 2) were common 
across all interviewees, but the need increased with scale of production and the length of 
the supply chain. The issues raised in the context of making harvest forecasts (Table 2) 
were used to guide the proposed ‘forecast engine’. 
 
 

Horticulturae 2024, 10, 301 
5 of 25 
 
 
Table 2. Examples of user feedback on the need for, and issues in the operation of, harvest fore-
casts. 
Topic 
Comments 
Need—on farm Resourcing:  
Boxes and tray liners are ordered months before harvest, so we need to anticipate fruit numbers and 
size. 
I need months of lead time to arrange harvest labour. 
I plan on 120 days from ﬂowering to harvest but that can be out a couple of weeks either way. 
Operation: 
If I get an order early in the season, I need to know where to ﬁnd mature fruit. 
If we know fruit sizes expected from a block, we can set the packline line drops up before sorting 
starts. 
The grade of the fruit depends on defect level. Ideally, we would know the proportion (of grade 1/ 
grade 2/reject) fruit before harvest. 
It’s not just about total weight, it’s when (week) and what (fruit number, size, quality). 
I have 22 harvest crews working in parallel through a block, each line needing 10 to 17 bins, but my 
bin runners only hold 6 bins each. I need them to place the bins right the ﬁrst time. 
If you know your weekly fruit load you can set a daily volume target depending on the number of 
days (in the week) you operate. You adjust daily depending on volume picked on previous day. This 
lets you give the crew notice (whether there will be a weekend break or not). 
We need to decide whether there’s enough fruit left after a ﬁrst harvest to justify a second harvest.  
The amount of fruit discarded in ﬁeld during harvest or left on tree can vary considerably. 
Harvest never goes to plan–staﬀ absent, rain or machine issues or other delays, like no transport avail-
able. But without a forecast you don’t have a plan. 
Need—post 
farm 
We spent (AUD)$0.9 M on marketing last year but it’s wasted if fruit isn’t available to deliver to mar-
ket, or if we supply more than the market is ready to handle. 
It’s not just about tonnage or number of fruit, fruit size is important. 
The (fruit) price drops if we supply more than we anticipated to market, and its hard to recover price. 
We pick with the aim of having the product in the hands of the consumer in 14 days, but with a stor-
age life of 28 days. We need to get the harvest date right. 
We need forecasts on a weekly basis from all our supplier farms. 
Forecast issues Nothing is ‘set and forget’, you need to be able to adjust values as the seasons progresses. For exam-
ple, nothing may come of a ﬂowering event, it may not set fruit, or the fruit may drop. 
Things change between years. If the foliage is denser (hiding fruit), I underestimate on fruit count. 
Hanging time (the time fruit can be left on tree before ripening begins) gives you some ﬂexibility in 
harvest timing. It varies with cultivar, ranging from 7 to 21 days. 
You need to factor in our capacity to harvest. 
Things get busy, any system has to be easy to use, easy to put data in, and easy to see. 
4. Harvest Timing 
4.1. GDD 
Reproductive development from ﬂowering to ‘harvest maturity’ is a cultivar speciﬁc 
function of time and temperature. This index is referred to as ‘thermal time’, ‘heat units’ 
or ‘Growing Degree Days’ (GDD), with units accumulated daily. Simple calendar time 
could be used if seasonal temperatures did not vary between years, but in practice, the 
time from a given ﬂowering to fruit harvest maturity can vary by weeks between locations 
with diﬀerent temperature proﬁles. 
GDD units for mango reproductive growth are typically calculated using the average 
of the daily minimum (Tm) and maximum (TM) temperatures, minus a minimum base 
temperature value (Tb). Amaral et al. [17] implemented a set of equations (1 to 5) for the 
calculation of daily GDD, as proposed by Ome.o [22], which involve a maximum base 

Horticulturae 2024, 10, 301 
6 of 25 
 
 
temperature value (TB). Working with Australian mango cultivars, the optimum Tb and 
TB was established to be 12 and 32 °C, respectively, and cumulative GDD targets were set 
for the fruit maturation of a suite of cultivars (Table 3). 
  <  ℎ
  = 0  
(1)
  >  ℎ
  =  –  + 
( −)
2
 
(2)
  <  ℎ
  = 
( −)
2( −)  
(3)
  >    <  ℎ
  = 2( −)( −) + ( −) −( −)
2( −)
 
(4)
  <    <  ℎ
  = 
( −) −( −)
2( −)
 
(5)
Table 3. Mango cultivar GDD (Tb of 12, TB of 32 °C) requirement for fruit development from the 
reproductive development stage of 50% ﬂower opening on panicle to harvest maturity, with ma-
turity deﬁned by ﬂesh color [17]. 
SN 
Cultivar 
Flesh Color 
GDD 
1 
Honey Gold 
9 
1560 
2 
Calypso 
7 
1540 
3 
Keitt 
13 
1936 
4 
R2E2 
 
1600 
5 
KP 
7 
1420 
In practice, this estimate provides a recommended earliest harvest date. Fruit can be 
harvested later, with decreasing shelf life and increasing postharvest quality issues. Fur-
ther work is required to document acceptable harvest windows, referred to as ‘hanging 
time’ by growers, by cultivar and growing condition, for use in harvest management sys-
tems. 
4.2. Temperature Measurement 
To achieve a GDD estimate, a record is required of current season temperatures to 
the current date and a forecast of temperatures through to fruit maturity. This forecast can 
be as simple as an average of daily temperatures over past years or as complex as the 
output of a current season climate model. The heat unit calculation can be updated daily 
using actual (orchard) season temperatures. 
For temperature measurements, farms lacking a weather station can access a local 
public monitoring resource, e.g., the Bureau of Metrology (BoM); however, these record-
ing locations can be >100 km from farms. Farms with a recording station often rely on a 
single station for temperature records. While it is obvious that temperatures and thus 
GDD accumulation will vary regionally, temperatures can also vary across a given farm 
(Figure 1) as a function of farm geography. The development of low-cost remote monitor-
ing technologies such as LoRa (Long Range radio) allows for multiple temperature re-
cording stations to be maintained on a given farm [17]. 

Horticulturae 2024, 10, 301 
7 of 25 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Cumulative GDD from calendar day 212 at two locations 2.1 km apart on one farm (blue 
and orange lines), and at the nearest BoM station, 25 km away (red line). A GDD target of 1500 units 
from a ﬂowering event at day 212 (horizontal green do.ed line) is reached on days 335 (1 Decem-
ber), 341 (7 December), and 354 (20 December), respectively. 
For the proposed harvest MIS, it is recommended that wireless temperature sensors 
be established according to Bureau of Meteorology speciﬁcation (viz., enclosed in a white, 
sla.ed screen, mounted 1.5 m above grassed or mulched ground, and positioned at least 
10 m from tall objects) in each geographic zone of the farm, with orchard blocks within 
those zones linked to the output of respective sensors in the MIS database. Data from these 
sensors should be collected at 15 min intervals [17] to support the measurement of Tm and 
TM. These records can be accumulated over the years to produce a historical record for 
each location. This historical record can be augmented with data from the nearest farm 
sensor or from the nearest public resource, e.g., BoM (Equation (1)). The historical record 
can be used in the forecast from a given date and to ﬁll in data gaps due to technical fail-
ures associated with sensors of associated data transfers (Equation (6)). 
 =  +  + ! + "# 
(6)
where the variables represent the following: 
S is the matrix of Tm and TM values for use in the calculation of GDD; 
O is a matrix of observed current season daily Tm and TM values; 
N is the matrix of observed current season and historical daily Tm and TM values of the 
nearest farm sensor; 
B is the matrix of current season daily Tm and TM values from the nearest BoM site; 
H is the matrix of historical (e.g., 10-year average) daily Tm and TM values; 
t1to4 are mutually exclusive periods within the season. 
4.3. Peak Flowering Dates 
A ﬂowering date is required for GDD estimation in the forecast of harvest time. 
Mango reproductive development involves the conversion of a vegetative branch terminal 
apex, with the production of a panicle with hundreds of ﬂowers. This process progresses 
through the stages of (i) swollen bud; (ii) ‘asparagus’ stage; (iii) panicle elongation phase; 
(iv) ‘Christmas tree’ stage with 50% of ﬂowers on the panicle open; and (v) fruit set stage. 
A panicle will typically hold one to four fruits, with this number being cultivar dependent. 
In current international best practice, as seen in mango production systems dealing 
with large volumes of fruit and long supply chains, the percentage of canopy terminals in 
reproductive growth per tree is estimated manually in a slow (approx. 10 km/h) drive 

Horticulturae 2024, 10, 301 
8 of 25 
 
 
through of several rows of a given orchard at up to weekly intervals. Dates of peak ﬂow-
ering, also known as ‘maturity zones’ or ‘ﬂowering events’ in the Australian mango in-
dustry, can be estimated from this time series assessment, for each orchard (Table 4, Figure 
2). The designation of a ﬂowering event is tied to a user-deﬁned minimum change in ﬂow-
ering level, e.g., of at least 20% of terminals in reproductive growth (Figure 2), as, in gen-
eral, the selective harvest of fruit from a lesser change would not be economically viable. 
Table 4. Example of manual data collection on ﬂowering for ﬁve orchard blocks (A to E) across 7 
weeks. (i) Raw data of weekly assessment of % of canopy terminals in reproductive growth based 
on a manual visual assessment from driving through several rows in each block. (ii) The cumulative 
values are normalized to the maximum ﬂowering level achieved in each block. (iii) Manager input 
is required in denoting ﬂowering ‘events’ (generally an event involving an increase of at least 20% 
in ﬂowering), the percentage of total ﬂowering within a given block associated to each event, with 
user manipulation required to spread harvest activity over the available time window. 
 
Block 
Week 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
(i) 
Raw data 
A 
0 
0 
5 
5 
55 
60 
60 
B 
10 
50 
65 
65 
85 
90 
90 
C 
30 
85 
90 
90 
90 
90 
90 
D 
10 
50 
65 
65 
65 
65 
65 
E 
0 
20 
20 
20 
60 
90 
90 
(ii) 
Normalized data 
A 
0 
0 
8 
8 
100 
100 
100 
B 
20 
56 
72 
72 
94 
100 
100 
C 
33 
94 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
D 
15 
77 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
E 
0 
22 
22 
22 
67 
100 
100 
(iii) Condensed data 
A 
 
 
 
 
100 
 
 
B 
20 
 
52 
 
 
28 
 
C 
33 
67 
D 
 
77 
 
23 
 
 
 
E 
 
22 
 
 
45 
 
33 
 
 

Horticulturae 2024, 10, 301 
9 of 25 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Time series of ﬂowering assessments for an orchard: (a) machine vision count of panicles 
at the ‘50% ﬂower opened’ developmental stage (blue line) and manual estimation of percentage of 
canopy terminals in reproductive growth (green line) for an orchard block (data of block E in Table 
4, where week 1 is 21 July); (b) machine-vision-based panicle count for the same block in the next 
production season (orange line). The period in the outline denotes a signiﬁcant ﬂowering period. X 
axis date format is mm/dd. 
While assessment of the percentage of terminals in reproductive growth via human 
visual assessment is a current industry practice, this a.ribute has not yet been assessed 
with machine vision. Panicle count, but not vegetative terminal count, has been reported 
using machine vision. Machine vision has been used in the detection and count of mango 
panicles at three developmental stages (elongation, Christmas tree, and fruit set) using 
imagery collected from a camera and a GNSS-equipped ground vehicle [23]. In this ap-
proach, panicle counts from images sourced at intervals equivalent to the tree spacing 
along the tree row have been used in the spatial visualization of ﬂowering across orchard 
blocks, and the average counts for the number of panicle counts per frame for the three 
developmental stages have been used in time-series presentation [3] (Figure 2). Such a 
time series allows for the elicitation of the timing of ﬂowering events. 
 
 

Horticulturae 2024, 10, 301 
10 of 25 
 
 
4.4. Accumulation of Storage Reserves 
The GDD forecast of harvest time has the following weaknesses: (i) potential varia-
tion between the sensor measured temperature and fruit temperature, both across orchard 
and within canopy and (ii) variation in the time of ﬂowering within each panicle (which 
consists of hundreds of ﬂowers which progressively open over at least a week). To ‘ﬁne 
tune’ the GDD-based estimate of harvest date, fruit a.ributes such as skin color, ﬂesh 
color, or storage reserve level can be used as indicators of fruit maturity. However, skin 
color is not a reliable index for the mango cultivars of commercial relevance in Australia, 
which can have a well-developed ‘blush’ (skin color) by the time of harvest. Flesh color is 
a deﬁnitive index of fruit maturity, but assessment is destructive of the fruit, eﬀectively 
limiting the number of fruit that can be sampled [24]. 
Flesh dry ma.er content (DMC) has been recommended as a maturity index for 
mango fruit [25]. It can be estimated destructively via weight loss on drying, or noninva-
sively for fruits on trees using a portable near-infrared spectrometer (e.g., F750, Felix In-
struments, Camas, WA, USA). Such instruments are Wi-Fi- and GNSS-enabled, enabling 
the upload of geo-tagged data. In brief, DMC reﬂects the accumulation of storage reserves, 
being soluble sugars and starch content, in a mango fruit. DMC of fruit at harvest is 
strongly correlated to juice soluble solid content in the ripened fruit and thus, eating qual-
ity. The DMC level associated with harvest maturity will vary with growing condition but 
can be established via association with ﬂesh color [17] (Figure 3). 
 
 
Figure 3. Top row: A set of color cards and associated maturity score values (from 3 to 17) with 
associated CIE Lab values associated to ﬂesh color at maturity for four mango cultivars. Bo.om row: 
Images of cut cheeks of Kei. cultivar fruit. The ﬂesh color associated with harvest maturity (card 
13) of these fruit was associated with a dry ma.er content of 17% w/w. 
Once mango fruit are past the stone-hardening stage of development, fruit ‘drop’ 
(abscission) decreases greatly, and the rate of increase in DMC (% w/w) is generally linear 
(with exceptions, particularly around marked changes in water status, e.g., following rain) 
[26]. Thus, the rate of increase in the DMC estimated from at least two weekly observations 
allows for the forward prediction of a harvest maturity date given a DMC target associated 
with harvest maturity (Equation (7), with example data shown in Figure 4). 
∆% = 
(& −&)
∆&
 × 100 
(7)
Where the variables have the following representations: 
x is the number of days to harvest maturity date; 
TDMC is the target dry ma.er content, associated with harvest maturity; 

Horticulturae 2024, 10, 301 
11 of 25 
 
 
DMC is the value of dry ma.er content exceeded in x% of observations of the last meas-
urement date, where x is user deﬁned (typically 90%); 
DMC is the rate of DMC increase (%/day) estimated from average dry ma.er content at 
two measurement dates. 
An example 
 
Figure 4. Example of spatial visualization of harvest timing data, in this case dry ma.er content 
(DMC) data. Dots represent measurements of individual fruit, with values incremented from date 
of measurement to date of visualization based on a measured rate of DMC increase. Dots are colored 
with reference to a user speciﬁed DM target (in this case 16%). Blue, yellow, and red dots represent 
values on and above target, within one unit less than target and >1 unit less than target. Blocks are 
colored in context of meeting a user speciﬁcation, in this case 90% of measurements above the set 
target of 16%, with red and green indicating speciﬁcation not achieved and achieved, respectively 
4.5. Proposed Workﬂow on Harvest Timing 
A recommendation on harvest timing can thus be achieved on the consensus of esti-
mated dates from: (a) ﬂowering time and accumulated GDD, given dates of peak ﬂower-
ing events and measurement of daily (minimum and maximum) temperatures, and (b) 
fruit DMC, given measurements on at least two dates prior to harvest. 
A proposed workﬂow is described in Figure 5. The date and extent of peak ﬂowering 
events (maturity zones), as observed manually or through machine vision, are recorded. 
A recommended harvest date associated with these ﬂowering events is estimated from 
temperature records and required GDD for a given cultivar and the associated Tb and TB 
values. Another harvest date recommendation associated with these ﬂowering events is 
estimated from a minimum fruit dry ma.er (DM) harvest speciﬁcation established for 
each mango cultivar and a rate of dry ma.er increase established in the weeks before har-
vest used to estimate optimal harvest date. A consensus between GDD and dry ma.er 
harvest time forecasts (examples presented in Table 5) requires the input of an orchard 
manager to consider harvest timing in context of farm harvesting capacity (as illustrated 
in Table 4 and detailed in the next section). This can involve a decision to shift harvest 
from the week of forecasted fruit maturity to a week with lower harvest load, to balance 
harvest resourcing. This decision may also be used to inﬂuence marketing, i.e., intended 
market and pricing. 

Horticulturae 2024, 10, 301 
12 of 25 
 
 
 
Figure 5. Workﬂow for recommendation of time of mango harvest. The oval boxes denote inputs, 
rectangular boxes denote an action, and diamond boxes denote conditional statements. 
Table 5. Example forecasts of optimum harvest date for fruit of two ﬂowering events in each of ﬁve 
mango blocks (A to E), using the methods of (i) Growing Degree Days (GDD) from time of ﬂowering 
and (ii) achievement of a dry ma.er content (DMC) speciﬁcation (in units of %FW), based on a linear 
rate of DMC increment, established per block. Dates are in dd/mm format. 
Block 
FE1 
FE2 
GDD 
DMC 
GDD 
DMC 
A 
4/10 
1/10 
16/10 
21/10 
B 
6/10 
8/10 
22/10 
20/10 
C 
6/10 
9/10 
24/10 
27/10 
D 
30/9 
7/10 
22/10 
25/10 
E 
24/9 
2/10 
8/10 
6/10 
5. Harvest Load 
5.1. Fruit Number 
A ﬁrst forecast of potential fruit load can be based on the extent of ﬂowering propor-
tional to the maximum load associated with ﬂowering of 100% of the canopy terminals for 
a given orchard condition (cultivar, canopy size, architecture, management history, etc.). 
Such an estimate represents a potential, based on the extent of ﬂowering, which may not 
be realized if conditions cause fruit drop. This approach has also been reported in other 
soft-fruit tree crops, including apples [27] and almonds [28]. 
Fruit number data for a given orchard block can also be estimated with direct, man-
ual count, based on a sound sampling strategy. This count should be undertaken after the 
‘fruit drop’ period, generally at or after the ‘stone (endocarp) hardening’ stage of fruit 
development, i.e., from about six weeks before harvest. The estimate will involve manual 
count of the number of fruit per tree on a sample of trees in the orchard block, with the 
number of trees to be counted related to the square of the SD of this a.ribute [29]. Ideally, 
a preliminary sample of trees would be counted to evaluate SD; however, this imposes a 
workload cost. In compromise, an SD value based on prior knowledge (from blocks of 
similar appearance or from previous years) can be adopted and then iteratively adjusted 
based on actual counts. A systematic sampling procedure oﬀers the practical advantage 
of ease of location of the sample trees, compared to, e.g., a random sampling protocol [3]. 

Horticulturae 2024, 10, 301 
13 of 25 
 
 
Such a system can be implemented in a mobile device, with a download of orchard block 
boundaries and tree number per orchard block to enable calculations of tree spacing in 
systematic sampling. An example of a system in commercial operation employing this 
principle is Pronofruit [30]. 
Alternatively, the number of fruit per block can be assessed using machine vision. In 
an early demonstration (2013), machine vision using deep learning techniques (convolu-
tional networks) was used in an apple-fruit-load estimation method [31], with the tech-
nique shortly thereafter applied to mango-fruit-load estimation [19, 32]. In these systems, 
images of the canopy sides are collected using a camera system mounted to a vehicle mov-
ing through the inter-rows, with fruit tracked between frames and counted once no longer 
present in subsequent frames. Cumulative count for set lengths of the rows (generally set 
at the distance of tree spacing along the row, e.g., 3.5 m) can be displayed as a ‘heat map’ 
of fruit load, or a cumulative count for the orchard block can be displayed and tabulated, 
e.g., [21] and [19]. 
5.2. Fruit Size 
There is an allometric relationship between mango fruit lineal dimensions and fruit 
mass [20]. Fruit lineal dimensions can be collected manually, using calipers, and a statis-
tically robust sampling regime, with data capture aided with a mobile device. Alterna-
tively, lineal dimensions of fruits on trees can be estimated using machine vision for the 
subset of imaged fruit that are not partly occluded and are in the center of the ﬁeld of 
view, to avoid perspective distortion [33]. These data can be presented as a size class fre-
quency histogram. Hectre [34] provides an example of commercial software for monitor-
ing fruit size distribution of fruit in ﬁeld harvest bins using a mobile device and machine 
vision. 
Mango fruit mass increases linearly in the month leading up to harvest, except if 
growth is disturbed via a major change in tree physiology, e.g., in water stress or source–
sink balance [35, 36]. For nondisturbed conditions, size measurements (S) taken on two 
occasions (t1 and t2) can therefore be used to estimate rate of growth, m (e.g., in g/day), as 
follows: 
 = ̅ −̅ 
 −
     
(8)
where ̅ and ̅ are the average size of fruit at t1 and t2, respectively. This rate can be 
used to forecast weight distribution at the forecast time of harvest (th), from data of the 
last measurement event, as follows: 
* =  + (ℎ−) 
(9)
where St2 is the size distributions at t2, and Sh is the forecast size distribution at harvest. 
An example of a size proﬁle forecast (made three weeks before harvest) is compared 
to the size distribution assessed of fruit at harvest in Figure 6. 
 

Horticulturae 2024, 10, 301 
14 of 25 
 
 
 
Figure 6. Frequency (% of total fruit number) for fruit mass ranges equivalent to tray sizes for mango 
cultivar ‘Calypso’ population for the forecast and actual fruit size at harvest. Forecast size was based 
on a growth rate of 23.2 g/week (as estimated from the mass change between weeks 4 and 3) for this 
population. Fruit mass was calculated using fruit lineal dimensions. Data from Amaral et al. [36]. 
5.3. Fruit Quality 
A distinction can be made between ‘biological’ and ‘marketable’ yield. Biological 
yield is the total number of fruits on trees, characterized by fruit number and size. ‘Mar-
ketable yield’ is that proportion of biological yield that is saleable. Factors determining 
marketability include size, blemish level, and level of maturity. For example, less than six 
spots or a total area of 1 cm2 or more of pink spots on the mango skin, a symptom caused 
by a scale insect, is recognized as a defect in marketing chains, reducing fruit value [37]. 
As for total fruit number and fruit size, surveys can be conducted for fruits on trees 
to estimate the proportion of the crop impacted by a given a.ribute. Current industry best 
practice involves manual visual assessment of a sample of fruit in each orchard block, 
with paper or basic electronic recording. There is potential to implement machine vision 
solutions. For example, Scalisi et al. [38] report estimation of blush levels of stone fruit 
using a vehicle-mounted camera system. 
6. Data to Information 
6.1. Harvest Schedule 
As an early-in-season approximation of fruit yield, the % of terminals that enter re-
productive growth can be used in context of the maximum yield for this cultivar/can-
opy/growing condition, as associated with a 100% ﬂowering event (Equation (10)). For 
example, if 40% ﬂowering is recorded for a block with a prior maximum yield of 40 t/ha 
associated with 100% ﬂowering, then the potential yield forecast is 16 t/ha. 
+, = - × +./0 × 1  
(10)
where, for a given block, the variables have the following representations: 
Yf is the forecast yield (kg) associated with a given ﬂowering event; 
F is the ﬂowering extent (% of terminals) associated with a ﬂowering event; 
Ymax is the maximum fruit yield per hectare (kg/ha), at 100% ﬂowering; 
A is area (ha). 
However, as noted above, ﬂowering can occur in waves (ﬂowering events, FEs) of 
diﬀerent magnitudes within a given orchard block. The forecast harvest date of each of 

Horticulturae 2024, 10, 301 
15 of 25 
 
 
the events can be forecast based on GDD and on fruit DMC measurements. The % of can-
opy terminals involved in a ﬂowering event can be normalized to the maximum achieved 
and used to partition the estimated total fruit load based on FEs, and thus harvest date 
(Equation (11)). The forecast of harvest load can be based on a machine vision or manual 
count of fruit per orchard block undertaken from fruit stone-hardening stage, i.e., after 
the fruit drop period, up to 6 weeks before harvest. 
+2 =
-32
-3./0
× -& 
(11)
where the variables have the following representations: 
Yi is the yield, as fruit number, per FEi; 
FEi is the extent of a given ﬂowering event (% of terminals); 
i is the number of the FE; 
FEmax is the maximum ﬂowering in the given season (% of terminals); 
FC is the block fruit count. 
For example, if FE1 was associated with ﬂowering of 30% of all terminals, while by 
the end of the ﬂowering period 90% of terminals had reproductive growth, and the block 
fruit count was 120,000 pieces of fruit, then the fruit count associated with FE1 can be 
approximated as 30/90×120,000 = 40,000 pieces of fruit (Equation (11)). This value is an 
approximation which ignores diﬀerential fruit drop between diﬀerent FEs, but it repre-
sents the ﬁrst level of the forecast. The forecast can be adjusted based on subsequent ob-
servations of fruit drop and corroborated with other observations, e.g., fruit size distribu-
tion. 
A workﬂow is presented in Figure 7. 
 
Figure 7. Workﬂow for estimating fruit load per week. 
The estimated Yi per block can be summed across blocks to achieve an estimate of 
expected total harvest for a given harvest week (Ycu). This value can be compared to the 
farms harvest capacity per week (HCw), as designated by the grower and deﬁned by the 
number of harvest workers and harvest aid equipment available. If the forecasted harvest 

Horticulturae 2024, 10, 301 
16 of 25 
 
 
load exceeds the harvest capacity, the farm manager can adjust the FE timing, e.g., har-
vesting a week late or early relative to forecast dates, to distribute workload. 
The output of such a workﬂow for a farm harvest is illustrated in Table 6. The diﬀer-
ence between forecast and actual harvest can be ascribed to the following: (i) error in the 
estimation of the temporal ﬂowering distribution; (ii) errors in the estimation of fruit 
count; (iii) errors in the estimation of average fruit weight; and (iv) fruit not harvested or 
discarded at harvest, i.e., fruit not reaching packhouse from orchard. 
Table 6. Example forecast data for ﬁve orchard blocks. Top panel (A): increment in ﬂowering (% of 
terminal in reproductive growth) for a given week has been normalized against the maximum ﬂow-
ering achieved in that block, i.e., a total of 100% for each block. Total fruit count, average fruit 
weight, and the calculated weight of fruits on trees is recorded for each block. Bo.om panel (B): 
harvest dates are forecast using heat units and the weeks of ﬂowering events. The % ﬂowering value 
was used to partition estimated fruit load (kg) to a given harvest week and summed to calculate the 
expected harvest volume per week. Forecasted harvest load is also expressed as a percentage of total 
expected harvest. Actual packhouse out-turn (shipments) data are also presented. 
(A) 
% Flowering 
Fruit 
Count 
Avg 
Weight 
(kg) 
Fruit 
Weight 
(kg) 
Calendar week 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 
Orchard A 
 
 
 
60 
40 
 
451,870 
0.47 
212,379 
Orchard B 
 
 
57 
 
43 
 
457,799 
0.45 
206,010 
Orchard C 
 
52 
 
 
48 
 
385,563 
0.46 
177,359 
Orchard D 
22 
22 
 
56 
350,141 
0.48 
168,068 
Orchard E 
 
 
41 
 
 
59 
363,475 
0.49 
178,103 
Orchard F 
 
 
53 
 
 
47 
122,750 
0.47 
57,693 
(B) 
Harvest forecast (fruit weight, kg) 
 
 
 
Calendar week 
40 
41 
42 
43 
44 
45 
Orchard A 
 
 
 
127,427 
84,952 
 
 
 
 
Orchard B 
 
 
117,425 
 
88,584 
 
 
 
 
Orchard C 
92,227 
 
85,132 
Orchard D 
36,975 
 
36,975 
 
 
94,118 
 
 
 
Orchard E 
 
 
73,022 
 
 
105,081 
 
 
 
Orchard F 
30,577 
 
27,115 
FORECAST 
36,975 
92,227 
257,999 
127,427 
258,668 
226,314 
 
 
 
% of total 
4 
9 
26 
13 
26 
23 
ACTUAL 
45,975 
126,123 
199,798 
101,752 
241,765 
191,459 
 
 
 
6.2. Selective Management 
The tabulated expected fruit load per week of the harvest period is useful in harvest 
resource planning, for issues from labor hire planning to transport logistics. In addition 
to this ‘quantitative’ estimate, ‘qualitive’ spatial information inherent in machine-vision-
derived estimates of the level of ﬂowering and fruit load can also be useful in orchard 
management. Several examples are provided in this section, including the following: 
(i) 
Delineation of areas of early ﬂowering and fruit set as areas for early selective har-
vest, to match market demands; 
(ii) Identiﬁcation of under and over performing areas within a given block, for investi-
gation of causes; 
(iii) Agronomic management (pest, disease, nutrition, and irrigation management). 
In Figure 8, spatial variation in ﬂowering is evident in panel A, which was reﬂected 
in spatial variation in fruit count made four months later (panel B). Of interest to farm 

Horticulturae 2024, 10, 301 
17 of 25 
 
 
management, the following season saw a reversed trend in spatial distribution of ﬂower-
ing (panel C) and fruit load (panel D). 
 
 
Figure 8. Example of machine vision data on panicle count (A,C) and fruit count (B,D) in two sub-
sequent seasons. Colors use a ‘heat’ scale (light blue, dark blue, yellow, and red for increasing lev-
els). Scale bar represents 50 m. 
Figure 9 illustrates a loss of fruit production due to a frost event, with crop saved in 
areas around ﬁve frost fans (left panel). In the second season (middle panel), areas of no 
production in year 1 became high yielding areas, suggesting a biannual yielding pa.ern 
had been introduced, and allowing for management intervention on the basis of this in-
formation. In the third season (middle panel), spatially uniform production was re-estab-
lished. 
 
 
Figure 9. Fruit density maps of a farm over three sequential production years. The location of frost 
fans are shown as stars. Dots represent machine-vision-based fruit count over 3.5 m of row, with 
every third row assessed. A color scale for counts shown in legend. Scale bar represents 500 m. 
Figure 10 illustrates a fruit count made before and after a ﬁrst harvest event, showing 
spatial variation in the intensity of harvest. Figure 11 presents frequency distributions for 
fruit load per ‘tree’ (per 3.5 m of tree row) and for fruit size, before and immediately after 

Horticulturae 2024, 10, 301 
18 of 25 
 
 
a harvest event. The distribution of fruit load per tree is shifted to lower values following 
harvest, as expected, but fruit size distribution is not visibly impacted, indicating that a 
selective harvest on the basis of fruit size did not occur. 
 
Figure 10. Fruit density maps of an orchard before and after a harvest event. Dots represent fruit 
count over 3.5 m of row, with color scale for counts shown in legend. Scale bar represents 100 m. 

Horticulturae 2024, 10, 301 
19 of 25 
 
 
 
Figure 11. Frequency distribution of fruit count per 3.5 m of row before (A) and after (B) a harvest 
event. 
6.3. Field Bin Allocation 
Information on the spatial distribution of fruit load within an orchard block can also 
be used to inform bin placement, as described in our previous work [39]. In the Australian 
mango industry, fruit are harvested into polycarbonate harvest bins of 400 kg capacity. 
One harvest related task is the distribution of empty bins into the orchard, ahead of the 
harvest crews. In present practice, these bins are allocated based on a human ‘eyeball’ of 
fruit load. Information on the spatial distribution of fruit load can be used to calculate the 
required number of bins per row, or the required placement of bins within the row. Such 
an estimate requires a cumulative estimate of fruit load from the two sides of tree canopies 
facing an inter-row. When the cumulative count (Yi) is equal or greater than the bin ca-
pacity (b), a ﬁeld bin is allocated to that spatial location, and the cumulative count re-
started (Equation (12), Figure 12). 
+4 = 5
0                         2 2 = 0 67 +4 ≥
9:;< + =<>       2 2 > 0  +4 < 
?
<@4
 
(12)

Horticulturae 2024, 10, 301 
20 of 25 
 
 
where variables have the following representations: 
i is a counter of the data series; 
j is a counter from the ith position of the data series to achieve b; 
n is the size of series; 
Lj is the fruit count series from the left MV camera; 
Rj is the fruit count series from the right MV camera. 
 
Figure 12. Bin distribution based on fruit load measurement. In this example, bins allocated to the 
two blocks, HG1 and HG2, were 106 and 112%, respectively, of requirement, as judged from farm 
packhouse records. Scale bar represents 50 m. 
7. Criteria for an Electronic Harvest MIS 
7.1. Data Acquisition System 
Ease of data collection and entry was a major consideration for all potential users of 
a harvest forecast MIS. New tools, e.g., LoRa-enabled temperature recording, Wi-Fi-ena-
bled handheld NIRS devices, and machine vision estimates of panicle and fruit number, 
have been expressly developed to ease data collection. However, these technologies im-
pose hardware costs. Manual data collection remains an alternative approach. 
A GNSS-enabled mobile device app can be developed to aid manual data collection 
for the extent of ﬂowering, fruit number, and fruit size and quality, with the workﬂow 
illustrated in Figure 13. 
 
Figure 13. Proposed workﬂow for a mobile-device app (‘ManGO’) for manual collection of ﬂower-
ing data (% of terminals in reproductive growth), fruit number, and fruit size. The app must allow 
data collection in-orchard, i.e., oﬀ-line, with data upload when connectivity allows. 

Horticulturae 2024, 10, 301 
21 of 25 
 
 
7.2. Harvest Forecast Engine as a Component of an Orchard MIS 
A mango harvest forecast engine has been described in this paper, combining the 
inputs of multiple sensor systems (Table 1) to achieve forward estimates of harvest timing 
and load. This engine can be associated to an orchard MIS (Figure 14). 
 
Figure 14. Proposed integration of data acquisition systems (DAS), harvest forecast engine (HFE), 
and orchard management information system (MIS). Inputs include fruit dry ma.er content meas-
urements, machine vision based estimates of ﬂowering and fruit number, manually collected ﬂow-
ering and fruit load data and orchard temperature data,. 
7.3. MIS System Requirements 
To operationalize a harvest forecast MIS (Figure 9), consideration is required of how 
data (spatial and nonspatial) are to be stored, managed, and transferred between the dif-
ferent components of the MIS [23, 24], and how data are best visualized, e.g., as tables, 
graphs, or maps, to inform decision making. As reviewed in [1], the evolution of farm 
MISs has seen a progression from ‘stand-alone’ desktop applications to cloud-based ap-
plications with mobile-device accessibility. A web-based system is therefore recom-
mended, with raster- rather than vector-based map rendering and implementation at the 
client rather than server side, for rapid visualization of large data sets. 
Issues with the development of a harvest forecast MIS (Table 7) were identiﬁed 
through (i) feedback from experts and growers involved in our data acquisition research, 
(ii) our previous literature review [1], and (iii) expanding our previous work on MIS de-
velopment [40]. 
Table 7. MIS requirements. 
# 
Requirement/Component 
Description 
1 
Orchard structure 
Farm location, block name, and boundaries  
2 
Temperature sensor associa-
tion 
Association of temperature sensors to blocks 
3 
Authentication, data access, 
and security 
Access to and securing data at user and farm 
level 
4 
User management 
Hierarchy of users required, e.g., owner, 
manager, and consultants, and permission 
across farms  
5 
Crop management 
To handle multiple cultivars of mango with 
varying production windows 
Future expandability to other tree-fruit crops 

Horticulturae 2024, 10, 301 
22 of 25 
 
 
6 
Data standards 
Standard data format for compatibility and 
interoperability with the subsystems (ma-
chine vision imaging, manual data collec-
tion, dry ma.er data collection, and temper-
ature), e.g., geolocation data format and date 
format  
7 
Database management 
Management of time-series data within a 
season with access to past season data 
Management of historical seasonal data 
8 
Data transmission 
Capability to handle big spatial data includ-
ing images in terms of rapid upload/inges-
tion, fetching data from server to client side, 
and download. 
9 
Data visualization with 
query able web mapping 
Time-aware heat map visualization, e.g., of 
>50 K data values for a given farm, of ma-
chine vision data over online basemaps (e.g., 
Google/ESRI/Bing/hostable drone imagery) 
and presentation of data. 
10 
Visualization of machine vi-
sion images 
Display of machine vision images of ﬂower 
and fruit at tree level 
11 
User friendliness 
User experience in terms of interface interac-
tiveness and responsiveness in farm loca-
tions to be conﬁrmed in terms of interactive 
and responsive map, table, and charts. 
12 
RESTful APIs 
To enable query ability, interoperability, and 
automatability between the systems, and 
progressive development of the system and 
subsystems 
13 
Communication module 
Email service to inform users regarding data 
updates 
14 
Operationability 
Maintainability and scalability 
8. Conclusions 
Harvest time and load forecast is critical to orchard management. The need for accu-
rate forecast increases as farm size increases and supply chains lengthen, given diﬃculties 
in organizing harvest resources (labor, transport, etc.) and the marketing of large volumes 
of fruit. This manuscript has described and codiﬁed the logic of a mango harvest forecast 
engine and provided design features for the development of a harvest MIS software arte-
fact. Further, in addition to the quantitative data on harvest load, management value is 
also identiﬁed in the data on the spatial distribution and frequency distributions of fruit 
load per tree and fruit size. 
Implementation of such a forecast engine is enabled with sensor systems that have 
become available in recent years, reducing the manual eﬀort required for data acquisition. 
Required inputs are the following: 
 
Date of ﬂowering; 
 
Extent of ﬂowering; 
 
GDD- and DMC-based forecast of harvest timing for each ﬂowering event; 
 
Fruit count; 
 
Fruit quality estimation; 
 
Fruit size distribution. 

Horticulturae 2024, 10, 301 
23 of 25 
 
 
This study has utilized in-ﬁeld machine-vision-based estimation of ﬂowering level 
and fruit count, but there is an opportunity to integrate other inputs, e.g., UAV- or satel-
lite-based imagery for an earlier-in-season, although potentially imprecise, forecast (based 
on parameters such as vegetation indices, tree crown area, and ﬂoral-induction chill 
units). 
An important requirement in a forecast engine is ﬂexibility, allowing managers to 
adjust for such factors as a failed ﬂowering event, e.g., due to poor pollination or to rainfall 
causing fungal disease of the ﬂowers or a failed fruit set, e.g., due to a severe water stress 
event. 
The foundation is thus set for the development of a harvest forecast MIS. However, 
farm adoption of such a tool will depend on ease of farm implementation, which implies 
a need to integrate into a broader MIS dealing with other aspects of orchard management. 
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, H.K.D., K.B.W., M.H.A., and M.M.; methodology, M.M., 
M.H.A., H.K.D., and K.B.W.; formal analysis, K.B.W.; data curation, K.B.W.; writing—original draft 
preparation, H.K.D.; writing—review and editing, K.B.W. and T.B.; visualization, H.K.D.; supervi-
sion, K.B.W. and T.B; project administration, K.B.W.; funding acquisition, K.B.W. All authors have 
read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript. 
Funding: H.K.D. acknowledges receipt of a CQUniversity Research Stipend Scholarship and a CQU 
International Excellence Award. 
Data Availability Statement: Data has been accessed from referenced articles.. 
Acknowledgments: We acknowledge the support of numerous Australian mango growers, through 
access to their orchards. 
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂicts of interest. The funders had no role in the 
design of this study; in the collection, analyses, or interpretation of data; in the writing of the man-
uscript; or in the decision to publish the results. 
Appendix A 
Semistructured Interview Questions: 
 
How do you currently forecast time of harvest time, and number, size and quality of 
fruit at harvest? 
Which of these harvest-forecast functions is most and least important to you? (harvest 
time forecast, fruit number, size or quality forecast) 
Speaking of the software system used to display harvest forecast information: 
What aspects of this system do you ﬁnd useful? 
What features do you ﬁnd irrelevant/diﬃcult to use? 
What features would you like to see added? 
What aspects of the GUI are good and bad? 
What are the barriers to the use of harvest forecast MIS? 
References 
1. 
Dhonju, H.K.; Walsh, K.B.; Bhattarai, T. Management information systems for tree fruit—1: A review. Horticulturae 
2024, 10, 108. https://doi.org/10.3390/horticulturae10010108. 
2. 
Queensland Government. Mango Information Kit; Queensland Government: Brisbane, QLD, Australia, 1999. 
3. 
Anderson, N.T.; Walsh, K.B.; Wulfsohn, D. Technologies for forecasting tree fruit load and harvest timing—From 
ground, sky and time. Agronomy 2021, 11, 1409. https://doi.org/10.3390/agronomy11071409. 
4. 
Martin, R.D.S.; Dunn, G. How to Forecast Wine Grape Deliveries; Technique Report; Department of Primary Industries: 
Tatura, Victoria, Australia, 2003. 
5. 
Walsh, B.; Lacey, K. Estimating Your Citrus Crop Load. 2024. Available online: https://www.agric.wa.gov.au/cit-
rus/estimating-your-citrus-crop-load (accessed on 9 March 2024). 

Horticulturae 2024, 10, 301 
24 of 25 
 
 
6. 
Olsen, J.; Goodwin, J. The methods and results of the Oregon Agricultural Statistics Service: Annual objective yield 
survey of Oregon hazelnut production. In Proceedings of the VI International Congress on Hazelnut, Tarragona-
Reus, Spain, 14 June 2004; Acta Horticulturae. 
7. 
Islam, M.S.; Scalisi, A.; O’Connell, M.G.; Morton, P.; Scheding, S.; Underwood, J.; Goodwin, I. A ground-based 
platform for reliable estimates of fruit number, size, and color in stone fruit orchards. HortTechnology 2022, 32, 510–
522. https://doi.org/10.21273/HORTTECH05098-22. 
8. 
Sarron, J.; Malézieux, É.; Sané, C.; Faye, É. Mango yield mapping at the orchard scale based on tree structure and 
land cover assessed by UAV. Remote Sens. 2018, 10, 1900. https://doi.org/10.3390/rs10121900. 
9. 
Williams, S.R.; Agrahari Baniya, A.; Islam, M.S.; Murphy, K. A Data Ecosystem for Orchard Research and Early 
Fruit Traceability. Horticulturae 2023, 9, 1013. https://doi.org/10.3390/horticulturae9091013. 
10. Anderson, N.T.; Underwood, J.; Rahman, M.; Robson, A.; Walsh, K. Estimation of fruit load in mango orchards: 
Tree sampling considerations and use of machine vision and satellite imagery. Precis. Agric. 2019, 20, 823–839. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11119-018-9614-1. 
11. Ganry, J.; Chillet, M. Methodology to forecast the harvest date of banana bunches. Fruits 2008, 63, 371–373. 
https://doi.org/10.1051/fruits:2008036. 
12. MacKenzie, S.J.; Chandler, C.K. A method to predict weekly strawberry fruit yields from extended season produc-
tion systems. Agron. J. 2009, 101, 278–287. https://doi.org/10.2134/agronj2008.0208. 
13. Gómez-Lagos, J.E.; González-Araya, M.C.; Ortega Blu, R.; Acosta Espejo, L.G. A new method based on machine 
learning to forecast fruit yield using spectrometric data: Analysis in a fruit supply chain context. Precis. Agric. 2023, 
24, 326–352. 
14. Gómez-Lagos, J.E.; González-Araya, M.C.; Soto-Silva, W.E.; Rivera-Moraga, M.M. Optimizing tactical harvest 
planning for multiple fruit orchards using a metaheuristic modeling approach. Eur. J. Oper. Res. 2021, 290, 297–312. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejor.2020.08.015. 
15. Torgbor, B.A.; Rahman, M.M.; Brinkhoff, J.; Sinha, P.; Robson, A. Integrating remote sensing and weather variables 
for mango yield prediction using a machine learning approach. Remote Sens. 2023, 15, 3075. 
16. Rahman, M.M.; Robson, A.; Bristow, M. Exploring the potential of high resolution worldview-3 Imagery for esti-
mating yield of mango. Remote Sens. 2018, 10, 1866. 
17. Amaral, M.H.; McConchie, C.; Dickinson, G.; Walsh, K.B. Growing degree day targets for fruit development of 
Australian mango cultivars. Horticulturae 2023, 9, 489. https://doi.org/10.3390/horticulturae9040489. 
18. Walsh, K.; Wang, Z. Monitoring fruit quality and quantity in mangoes. In Achieving Sustainable Cultivation of Man-
goes; Burleigh Dodds Science Publishing: Cambridge, UK, 2018; pp. 313–338. 
19. Koirala, A.; Walsh, K.; Wang, Z.; McCarthy, C. Deep learning for real-time fruit detection and orchard fruit load 
estimation: Benchmarking of ‘MangoYOLO’. Precis. Agric. 2019, 20, 1107–1135. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11119-019-
09642-0. 
20. Neupane, C.; Pereira, M.; Koirala, A.; Walsh, K.B. Fruit sizing in orchard: A review from caliper to machine vision 
with deep learning. Sensors 2023, 23, 3868. https://doi.org/10.3390/s23083868. 
21. Anderson, N.T.; Walsh, K.B.; Koirala, A.; Wang, Z.; Amaral, M.H.; Dickinson, G.R.; Sinha, P.; Robson, A.J. Estima-
tion of fruit load in Australian mango orchards using machine vision. Agronomy 2021, 11, 1711. 
https://doi.org/10.3390/agronomy11091711. 
22. Ometto, J.C. Bioclimatologia Vegetal; Agronômica Ceres: São Paulo, Brazil, 1981; 425p. 
23. Wang, Z.; Underwood, J.; Walsh, K.B. Machine vision assessment of mango orchard flowering. Comput. Electron. 
Agric. 2018, 151, 501–511. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2018.06.040. 
24. Bermejo, J.; Crisosto, C.; Crisosto, G. Applying non-destructive sensors to improve fresh fruit consumer satisfaction 
and increase consumption. In Proceedings of the XXIX International Horticultural Congress on Horticulture: Sus-
taining Lives, Livelihoods and Landscapes (IHC2014), Brisbane, OLD, Australia, 17–22 August 2014; pp. 219–226. 
25. AMIA. Factors That Influence Dry Matter. 2024. Availabe online: https://www.industry.mangoes.net.au/re-
sources/resources-library/factors-that-influence-dry-matter/ (accessed on 25 January 2024). 
26. Walsh, K.; McGlone, V.; Han, D. The uses of near infra-red spectroscopy in postharvest decision support: A review. 
Postharvest Biol. Technol. 2020, 163, 111139. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.postharvbio.2020.111139. 
27. Aggelopoulou, A.; Bochtis, D.; Fountas, S.; Swain, K.C.; Gemtos, T.; Nanos, G. Yield prediction in apple orchards 
based on image processing. Precis. Agric. 2011, 12, 448–456. 
28. Tombesi, S.; Lampinen, B.D.; Metcalf, S.; DeJong, T.M. Yield in almond is related more to the abundance of flowers 
than the relative number of flowers that set fruit. Calif. Agric. 2017, 71, 68-74 . https://doi.org/10.3733/ca.2016a0024. 

Horticulturae 2024, 10, 301 
25 of 25 
 
 
29. Walsh, K.; McGlone, V.; Wohlers, M. Sampling and Statistics in Assessment of Fresh Produce; Burleigh Dodds Science 
Publishing: Cambridge, UK, 2022. 
30. Wulfsohn, D.; Gardi, J.E.; Cohen, O.; Garcia-Fiñana, M.; Zamora, I. Pronofrut: Computer-assisted stereology for 
estimating orchard yields. In Proceedings of the Workshop on Image Analysis and Stereology with applications 
on Biological and Social Sciences, Santander, Spain, 11–14 September 2018. 
31. Wang, Q.; Nuske, S.; Bergerman, M.; Singh, S. Automated crop yield estimation for apple orchards. Exp. Robot. 
2013, 88, 745–758. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-00065-7_50. 
32. Bargoti, S.; Underwood, J. Deep fruit detection in orchards. In Proceedings of the 2017 IEEE International Confer-
ence on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), Singapore, 29 May–3 June 2017; pp. 3626–3633. 
33. Wang, Z.; Walsh, K.B.; Verma, B. On-tree mango fruit size estimation using RGB-D images. Sensors 2017, 17, 2738. 
https://doi.org/10.3390/s17122738. 
34. Hectre. Award Winning Orchard Technologies Growers and Packers Love to Use. 2023. Availabe online: 
https://hectre.com/ (accessed on 27 January 2023). 
35. Anderson, N.T.; Subedi, P.P.; Walsh, K.B. Manipulation of mango fruit dry matter content to improve eating qual-
ity. Sci. Hortic. 2017, 226, 316–321. 
36. Amaral, M.H.; Walsh, K.B. In-orchard sizing of mango fruit: 2. Forward estimation of size at harvest. Horticulturae 
2023, 9, 54. https://doi.org/10.3390/horticulturae9010054. 
37. AMIA. Mango Quality Assessment Manual. 2024. Availabe online: https://www.industry.mangoes.net.au/re-
sources/resources-library/mango-quality-assessment-manual/ (accessed on 7 February 2024). 
38. Scalisi, A.; McClymont, L.; Peavey, M.; Morton, P.; Scheding, S.; Underwood, J.; Goodwin, I. Detecting, mapping 
and digitising canopy geometry, fruit number and peel colour in pear trees with different architecture. Sci. Hortic. 
2024, 326, 112737. 
39. Dhonju, H.; Walsh, K.; Bhattarai, T. Harvest bin placement based on machine vision data in mango orchards. In 
Proceedings of the II International Symposium on Precision Management of Orchards & Vineyards, Tatura, VIC, 
Australia, 3–8 December 2023. 
40. Dhonju, H.K.; Walsh, K.B.; Bhattarai, T. Web mapping for farm management information systems: A review and 
Australian orchard case study. Agronomy 2023, 13, 2563. https://doi.org/10.3390/agronomy13102563. 
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual au-
thor(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to 
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content. 
 
 
 
