John V. Stafford (ed.) Precision agriculture '19
DOI 10.3920/978-90-8686-888-9_46, © Wageningen Academic Publishers 2019
373
A precision viticulture UAV-based approach for early yield prediction 
in vineyard
S.F. Di Gennaro1*, P. Toscano1, P. Cinat1, A. Berton2 and A. Matese1
1Institute of Biometeorology, National Research Council, 50145 Florence, Italy; f.digennaro@ibimet.cnr.it
2Institute of Clinical Physiology, National Research Council, 56124 Pisa, Italy
Abstract
Early yield prediction is a key factor for vineyard management optimization, to obtain the desired 
grape production and quality. Ground observation and manual weighing are time consuming and 
frequently provide low representative data. The aim of the study was to develop an automated early 
yield estimation system (5 weeks before harvest) using high-resolution RGB images, acquired through 
an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) platform in a representative zone of vigour variability of the 
whole vineyard. An unsupervised recognition algorithm was applied to derive the number of clusters 
and size, which have been used to estimate production. This fast and accurate methodology, which 
operated with a low cost setup, has shown high accuracy in yield prediction, providing interesting 
potential to support grape production management both in vineyard and in cellar.
Keywords: UAV, image analysis, grape detection, early yield prediction, low-cost
Introduction
Knowledge of spatial variability across a field plays a key role in vineyard management, affecting 
a wide range of aspects related to crop development (Bonilla et al., 2015). Among those, grape 
yield is an important component that drives the return of investment in wine production (Van 
Leeuwen and Darriet, 2016) and its estimation is a challenging process. Moreover, yield prediction 
can improve the efficiency both for harvest operations in the field and winemaking management 
(Cunha et al., 2010; De la Fuente et al., 2015). Forecast prediction is a key aspect for farmers but yield 
variability across years, makes a correct estimation between different seasons difficult (Sabbatini 
et al., 2012). Traditional yield estimation is realized by taking measurements manually in the field 
and extrapolating to the entire vineyard – making it extremely time consuming, destructive and 
subjective (Nuske et al., 2014). Furthermore, there is a high risk that a limited number of samples 
fails to properly characterize spatial variability within the vineyard, thus compromising the data 
(Tisseyre et al., 2018). In this context, the emerging technologies applied in agriculture provide new 
solutions to overcome the weaknesses of traditional ground measurements (Dhondt et al., 2013; Di 
Gennaro et al., 2017; White et al., 2012). Viticulturists have developed different systems for yield 
estimating. De La Fuente et al. (2015) provided a performance review of six yield prediction methods 
applied to different phenological stages, identifying fruit set and veraison as best solutions in terms 
of earliness of prediction in the growing season, accuracy and precision.
In the last decade, advances in sensor technologies and image computing software provide a valuable 
tool to overcome those issues. As summarized by Aquino et al. (2018), different approaches have 
been tested to realize a partial or total unsupervised cluster for berry detection by high resolution 
RGB images. The most widely used approaches to analyse pixel colours is the RGB colour space 
based on three colour components which are red (R), green (G), and blue (B). However, several 
colour spaces have been introduced to exploit their mathematical properties (Khattab et al., 2014). 
Among different colour spaces, the L*a*b* and HSV are the most frequently used (Bora et al., 2015).
Some authors have reported studies of image processing techniques taken manually in a vineyard 
(Liu and Whittey, 2015; Aquino et al., 2017; Mack et al., 2017). Other recent studies have reported 
46

374	
Precision agriculture ’19
methodologies for large-scale yield monitoring in the field, by means of on-the-go image acquisition 
using modified terrestrial vehicles and 2D image analysis approaches (Nuske et al., 2014; Font 
et al., 2015; Aquino et al., 2018). Those solutions have acquired images at night using artificial 
illumination on defoliated cluster zones, which provide accurate yield detection. However, they 
are time-consuming due to low forward speed especially in night condition. The aim of this study 
was to implement a fast and unsupervised methodology for yield prediction several weeks before 
harvest with reduced time and costs in terms of acquisition and processing of data. To obtain early 
automated yield estimation, high resolution RGB images were taken with a low cost UAV platform 
in a representative zone of vigour variability in a vineyard.
Materials and methods
Experimental site
The research was carried out in a 1.4 ha vineyard (43°25’45.30’N, 11°17’17.92’E) planted in 2008 
and located on a slight southern slope at 355 m above sea level near Siena (Italy). Sangiovese cv. 
(Vitis vinifera) vines are trained to a vertical shoot-positioned trellis and spur-pruned on a single 
cordon with 2.2×0.75 m vine spacing and NW-SE rows.
Image acquisition
UAV technologies were chosen considering their potential in term of flight speed, low quote operative 
flight and custom angle of image acquisition. Remote aerial surveys were performed using an 
open-source UAV platform consisting in a modified multi-rotor MikrokopterOktoXL (HiSystems 
GmbH, Moomerland, Germany). The system was equipped with a multispectral camera ADC-Snap 
(Tetracam Inc., CA, USA) and a RGB camera Sony Cyber-shot DSC-QX100 (Sony Corporation, 
Tokyo, Japan). The UAV flight campaign was conducted in the experimental vineyards on 26 June 
and 07 August 2018. A preliminary survey on first date was performed equipping the multispectral 
camera to analyze vigour spatial variability, and to identify 2 representative zones, one in low 
vigour (LV) and one in high vigour (HV). A second multispectral survey was undertaken on 07 
August to confirm that a vigour representative zone had been chosen, and produce the yield map. 
Multispectral image acquisition was at 50 m AGL, yielding a ground resolution of 0.025 m/pixel and 
70% of overlap in both directions. During the second flight date, 8 consecutive vines within each 
representative zone were defoliated at fruit zone level. A RGB survey was carried out at 14.00 PM 
with 5 m AGL flight quote, with oblique camera (45°) along the row, providing a ground resolution 
of 0.002 m/pixel on the fruit zone. A series of RGB images of vines were acquired hovering about 
20 s in front of each 8-vine plot. Sentinel-2 images were freely downloaded from the Copernicus 
Scientific Data Hub web site as a Level 2A product. This level is ortho-rectified and UTM geocoded, 
bottom-of-atmosphere multi-spectral reflectance.
Image processing
Multispectral images acquired by UAV were processed using Agisoft Photoscan Pro 1.1.6 (Agisoft 
LLC, St. Petersburg, Russia) to produce the ortho-mosaic and the digital elevation model (DEM). 
Matlab software (The MathWorks, Inc., Natick, USA) was employed for radiometric calibration 
based on reference panels and row filtering (Matese et al., 2016). Next, NDVI data were extracted 
at single vine level with Quantum GIS (QGIS – http://www.qgis.org/), to correlate vigour and yield 
of each sample vine. NDVI from Sentinel 2 imagery was calculated using near-infrared B8 band 
(842 nm) and red B4 band (665 nm), producing a 10-m spatial resolution map.
The image processing workflow is shown in Figure 1. A first supervised step has been done to 
identify best image fitting on target vines for each vigour zone and to cut the sample vines region.
Then, ImageJ software was used to perform an unsupervised processing of selected images. 
At this point, each original RGB image was converted to the three layers HSV color space: H 

Precision agriculture ’19	
375
(hue) distinguishes among the perceived colors, S (saturation) refers to how much of the light is 
concentrated at each specific wavelength of the hue; and V (value) represents the total brightness. 
The H layer was selected for image analysis, since it has the best performing layer for cluster 
segmentation. A threshold and two different filter methods were now applied to the H layer. (1) The 
Yen filter (Yen et al., 1995) converted the layer to a 8 bit binary image, providing a black and white 
image with clusters segmentation from other objects (soil, leaf, trunk). (2) A median filter eliminated 
‘salt and pepper’ noise, replacing each pixel with the median value in its 3×3 neighborhood. (3) 
A filling holes filter removed the small holes produced by the threshold based segmentation step.
Finally, the command ‘Analyze particles’ was used to count and measure each cluster area detected 
in the binary 2D image.
Evaluation of yield prediction map
Yield estimation was carried out using the number and dimensions of detected clusters obtained 
from image analysis. First, an average yield per vine was calculated in each vigour zone from UAV 
images by converting total cluster area per vine (cm2/vine) from UAV images in yield per vine (kg/
vine), on the basis of calibration parameters obtained from previous work in the same vineyard 
(2017 season). The yield per vine within different vigour zones were then correlated with NDVI data 
extracted with a polygon centered on each sample vine from 07 August 2018 NDVI map. The linear 
estimation model was applied to produce a yield prediction map based on vigour spatial variability 
in the vineyard. The same approach was tested with the Sentinel 2 NDVI map acquired closest to 
cluster detection survey (18 July 2018).
Results and discussion
Following the workflow described above, the processing of each image required a maximum of 
one minute. Figure 2 shows graphical flow output applied in LV and HV zones, beginning with 
supervised selection and cutting of image of sample vines (Figure 2A,B), and then RGB to HSV 
transform (Figure 2C), and clusters data extraction from binary image corrected with morphological 
filters (Figure 2D).
Data analysis showed a strong linear correlation between estimated yield and observed yield in 
terms of ripe cluster per vine (R2=0.84) (Figure 3A). The evaluation of the protocol response against 
ground traditional measurements showed a strong linear relationship during early survey at the 
beginning of August in mid veraison stage. However, unripe and partial overlapping conditions affect 
the absolute value detected, leading to an error of 17.8% in LV and 23.3% in HV in respect to ripe 
yield per vine, and higher concerning the total yield per vine (LV=30.5% and HV=27.8. Seasonally 
variability strongly affects cluster features, so high differences in terms of cluster morphology, berry 
ripeness within the cluster, cluster overlap level, canopy development and light condition could occur 
Figure 1. Image processing workflow.

376	
Precision agriculture ’19
between different seasons. Consequently, it would be interesting to investigate the methodology 
performance across different seasons, and, finally potentially identify a seasonal coefficient to 
correct yield estimation.
However, errors in yield prediction are highlighted in other on-the-go research at harvest time 
with fully ripe grape: Font et al. (2015) achieved 16% prediction error while Nuske et al. (2014) 
reported yield prediction errors between 6.5-11.7%. Taking into account an early approach, Aquino 
et al. (2018) described the highest performance methodology reaching a 12.83% of error before 
veraison. As reported in other work on yield monitoring systems in vineyard (Taylor et al., 2016), 
the methodology was confirmed to be effective for characterization of relative spatial yield patterns 
but, to improve absolute yield data, a seasonal adjustment is necessary against ground measurement 
on sample vines before it can be applied in large scale yield estimation. In regards to absolute mean 
Figure 2. Example of image analysis chain from supervised (A, B) to unsupervised (C, D) step on 
low (LV) and high (HV) vigour sample vines: (A) original image, (B) sample vine detail; (C) hue 
layer of HSV color space; (D) binary image based on Yen threshold algorithm with morphological 
filter and clusters area extraction.

Precision agriculture ’19	
377
values in different vigour zones, a discrete presence of partially overlapping between clusters in HV 
vines caused a mean yield under-estimation of the methodology (HV=2.33±0.97 kg, LV=1.78±0.69 
kg) with respect to ground observation (HV=2.57±1.07 kg, LV=1.74±0.64 kg). Observing the 
performance in total yield estimation monitored at ground (HV=3.00±1.43 kg, LV=2.14±1.06 kg), 
the methodology loses all clusters that are partially or fully unripe, providing interesting linear 
correlation (R2=0.73) but a higher under-estimation (Figure 3B). Undertaking a survey close to 
harvest, could reasonably achieve higher performance also in final yield estimation. Furthermore, 
an increase in berry weight from the beginning of August (UAV survey) could be another cause 
of the slight yield under-estimation compared to that measured at the harvest time 5 weeks later.
Subsequently, NDVI data were extracted for sample vines in both vigour zones and correlated with 
the ripe yield per vine estimated by UAV approach. The linear regression between estimated yield 
of ripe grapes and NDVI extracted for each vine allowed a ‘maturity yield map’ generation based 
on NDVI spatial variability within the vineyard. A two-class yield map was generated based on 
the median distribution of NDVI values between high and low vigour (HV=2.84±1.20 kg/vine, 
LV=2.05±1.05 kg/vine) (Figure 4A). The same approach has been tested on a Sentinel 2 NDVI map 
Figure 3. Estimated yield correlated with observed ripe cluster yield per vine (A), and observed 
total yield per vine (B).
A
B
Figure 4. Maturity yield map based on vigour spatial distribution in UAV (A) and Sentinel 2 (B) 
NDVI map.

378	
Precision agriculture ’19
through correlation from NDVI pixel values containing 8 sample vines and mean estimated yield per 
vine providing similar results (Figure 4B). Those maps represent a snapshot of the ripening process 
within the vineyard to the farmer at the time of flight. Based on the knowledge of the vineyard 
potential yield, this tool could provide fast information for an accurate yield forecasting or eventually 
modify the cluster load with thinning practices to achieve yield and quality desired. Considering 
the short time needed to move within the vineyard, acquire images of fruiting zones and process 
images, the increase of the sampling size will add minimal impact in respect to a high improvement 
in accuracy. In fact, taking into consideration the possibility of monitoring also intermediate vigour 
zone, the methodology would be able to realize yield maps with greater prediction performance. 
However, given that the study vineyard is characterized by a clear distinction of vigour, the separation 
into 2 classes was sufficient.
Low-altitude inclined photogrammetry allows the acquisition of extreme detailed images of the 
fruiting zone. A primary requirement on the application of this method concerns the line of sight 
between sensor and cluster that has to be free to assure a good acquisition. However, the common 
practice of partial leaf removal a few weeks before harvest, to optimize ripening and preserve grape 
health, is a way to overcome this requirement. Furthermore, the automatic procedure based on color 
thresholds cannot discriminate green clusters from leaves, and therefore only partially and totally 
ripe clusters are identified. Except for these aspects, there are many advantages of the methodology. 
Firstly, the speed of acquisition and processing, which exploits single images taken in representative 
areas that are quickly reached by the UAV. This is a highly transferable approach, as it uses low-cost 
hardware and open source analysis software. Furthermore, the remote sampling approach based on 
spatial variability acquired from farmer knowledge and/or vigour map (high resolution UAV or free 
low resolution satellite) ensures representative data especially in large areas or highly fragmented 
and sloping vineyards. Although other on-the-go methods perform better in terms of accuracy in 
yield estimation, another strong point is the timeliness of acquiring images intra- and inter-fields, 
data processing and output report as simple spatial information or yield map. The proposed method 
also has high flexibility of application providing an automated way to acquire information such as 
leaf area or chromatic alterations caused by leaf symptomatology (biotic and abiotic stress).
The methodology is not intended to replace visual scouting on the ground, but as a tool to support 
scouting with potential for timely monitoring of large areas.
Conclusions
The innovative approach shows an interesting potential in practical application both for farmer 
support in grape production management both in vineyard and in cellar, and for service companies. 
The development of a yield estimation protocol based on low cost hardware (UAV and RGB camera) 
and software (open source image analysis tool), with high level of automation, provides a flexible and 
user-friendly solution for yield monitoring. The methodology developed has considerable potential 
in terms of recognizing the number of clusters and quickly estimating ripe yield at the time of flight; 
however, it suffers from an unavoidable physical limit represented by leaf cover.
The proposed approach requires further investigation to evaluate performance in different seasons, 
varieties and training systems, although an obvious limit remains the need to have a free line of 
sight between sensor and clusters.
Acknowledgements
The authors are grateful to Castello di Fonterutoli Marchesi Mazzei Spa (Siena, Italy) for the use of 
their vineyard to carry out this study.

Precision agriculture ’19	
379
References
Aquino, A., Diago, M. P., Millan, B., Tardaguila, J., 2017. A new methodology for estimating the grapevine-berry 
number per cluster using image analysis. Biosystems Engineering 156 80-95.
Aquino, A., Millan, B., Diago, M. P., Tardaguila, J., 2018. Automated early yield prediction in vineyards from 
on-the-go image acquisition. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 144 26-36.
Bonilla, I., Martínez de Toda, F., Martínez-Casasnovas, J. A., 2015. Vine vigor, yield and grape quality assessment 
by airborne remote sensing over three years: Analysis of unexpected relationships in cv. Tempranillo. Spanish 
Journal of Agricultural Research 13 (2) e0903.
Bora, F. D., Bunea, C. I., Rusu, T., Pop, N., 2015. Vertical distribution and analysis of micro-, macroelements 
and heavy metals in the system soil-grapevine-wine in vineyard from North-West Romania. Chemistry 
Central Journal J 9 1-19.
Cunha, M., Maral, A. R. S. and Silva, L., 2010. Very early prediction of wine yield based on satellite data from 
vegetation. International Journal of Remote Sensing 31 3125-3142.
De La Fuente, M., Linares, R., Baeza, P., Miranda, C. and Lissarrague J. R., 2015. Comparison of different methods 
of grapevine yield prediction in the time window between fruitset and veraison. Journal International des 
Sciences de la Vigne et du Vin 49 27-35.
Dhondt, S., Wuyts, N. and Inzé, D., 2013. Cell to whole-plant phenotyping: the best is yet to come. Trends in 
Plant Science 18 (8) 428-439.
Di Gennaro, S. F., Rizza, F., Badeck, F. W., Berton, A., Delbono, S., Gioli, B., et al., 2017. UAV-based high-
throughput phenotyping to discriminate barley vigour with visible and near-infrared vegetation indices. 
International Journal of Remote Sensing 39 (15-16) 5330-5344.
Font, D., Tresanchez, M., Martínez, D., Moreno, J., Clotet, E., Palacín, J., 2015. Vineyard yield estimation based 
on the analysis of high resolution images obtained with artificial illumination at night. Sensors 15 8284-8301.
Khattab, D., Ebied H. M., Hussein A. S. and Tolba M. F. 2014. Color Image Segmentation Based on Different 
Color Space Models Using Automatic GrabCut. The Scientific World Journal 10 2014
Liu, S., Whitty, M., 2015. Automatic grape bunch detection in vineyards with an SVM classifier. Journal of 
Applied Logic 13, 643-653.
Mack, J., Lenz, C., Teutrine, J., Steinhage, V., 2017. High-precision 3D detection and reconstruction of grapes 
from laser range data for efficient phenotyping based on supervised learning. Computers and Electronics 
in Agriculture 135 300-311.
Matese, A., Di Gennaro, S. F. and Berton, A., 2016. Assessment of a canopy height model (CHM) in a vineyard 
using UAV-based multispectral imaging. International Journal of Remote Sensing 2016 1-11.
Nuske, S., Wilshusen, K., Achar, S., Yoder, L., Narasimhan, S., Singh, S., 2014. Automated visual yield estimation 
in vineyards. Journal of Field Robotics 3 837-860.
Sabbatini, P., Dami, I. and Howell, G. S., 2012. Predicting Harvest Yield in Juice and Wine Grape Vineyards. 
Extension Bulletin 3186, Michigan State University, USA.
Taylor, J.A., Sanchez, L., Sams, B., Haggerty, l., Jakubowski, R., Djafour S. et al., 2016. Evaluation of a commercial 
grape yield monitor for use mid-season and at-harvest. Journal International des Sciences de la Vigne et 
du Vin 50 (2) 57-63
Tisseyre, B., Leroux, C., Pichon, L., Geraudie, V., Sari, T., 2018 How to define the optimal grid size to map high 
resolution spatial data? Precision Agriculture 19 (5) 957-971.
Van Leeuwen, C. and Darriet, P., 2016. The impact of climate change on viticulture and wine quality. Journal 
of Wine Economics 11 (1) 150-167.
White, J.W., Andrade-Sanchez, P., Gore, M.A., Bronson, K.F., Coffelt, T.A., Conley, M.M., et al., 2012. Field-
based phenomics for plant genetics research. Field Crops Research 133 101-112.
Yen, J. C., Chang, F. J. and Chang, S., 1995. A new criterion for automatic multilevel thresholding. IEEE 
Transaction on Image Processing IP-4 370-378.
