1 
 
Original research paper 
Computer Vision-Aided Intelligent Monitoring of Coffee: Towards 
Sustainable Coffee Production 
Francisco Eron1#, Muhammad Noman1#, Raphael Ricon de Oliveira1#, Deigo de Souza Marques2, 
Rafael Serapilha Durelli2, Andre Pimenta Freire2, Antonio Chalfun Junior1* 
aLaboratory of Plant Molecular Physiology, Plant Physiology Sector, Department of Biology, Institute of Natural Science 
Federal University of Lavras, Lavras, MG, Brazil 
bDepartment of Computer Science, Federal University of Lavras, Lavras, MG, Brazil 
#Equal contribution 
*Correspondence: Antonio Chalfun Junior (chalfunjunior@ufla.br)  
Abstract 
Coffee which is prepared from the grinded roasted seeds (beans) of harvested coffee cherries, 
is one of the most consumed beverage and traded commodity, globally. To manually monitor 
the coffee field regularly, and inform about plant and soil health, as well as estimate yield and 
harvesting time, is labor-intensive, time-consuming and error-prone. Some recent studies have 
developed sensors for estimating coffee yield at the time of harvest, however a more inclusive 
and applicable technology to remotely monitor multiple parameters of the field and estimate 
coffee yield and quality even at pre-harvest stage, was missing. Following precision 
agriculture approach, we employed machine learning algorithm YOLO ((You Only Look 
Once), which works on the basis of Convolutional Neural Network (CNN)), for image 
processing of coffee plant. In this study, the latest version of the state-of-the-art algorithm 
YOLOv7 was trained with 324 annotated images followed by its evaluation with 82 
unannotated images as test data (supervised method). Next, as an innovative approach for 
annotating the training data, we trained K-means models which led to machine-generated color 
classes of coffee fruit and could thus characterize the informed objects in the image (semi-
supervised method). Finally, we attempted to develop an AI-based handy mobile application 
which would not only efficiently predict harvest time, estimate coffee yield and quality, but 

2 
 
also inform about plant health. Resultantly, the developed model efficiently analyzed the test 
data with a mAP@.5 (mean average precision) of 0.89. Strikingly, our innovative semi-
supervised method with an m@AP.5 of 0.77 for multi-class mode surpassed the supervised 
method with m@AP.5 of only 0.60, leading to faster and more accurate annotation. The 
mobile application we designed based on the developed code, was named “CoffeApp”, which 
possesses multiple features of analyzing fruit from the image taken by phone camera with in 
field and can thus track fruit ripening in real time. This AI-based technology when integrated 
with other tools such as UAV would efficiently remotely monitor coffee field for informed 
decision about irrigation, fertilizer application and other measures of timely field management, 
hence advancing precision agriculture. Moreover, this machine learning intelligent model 
could be tailored for various other fruit farming. 
Keywords: Coffee, precision agriculture, machine learning, artificial intelligence, digital 
phenotyping 
1. Introduction 
Coffee is a highly traded commodity globally, ranking second only to oil in terms of traded 
value (FAO, 2023). The crop is a major contributor to the socio-economic development of 
tropical developing countries, with millions of people globally depending on it for their 
livelihoods. Aside from its contribution to agricultural GDP, coffee production is a significant 
employer and supports poverty alleviation (Chemura et al., 2016; Läderach et al., 2017). Thus, 
coffee cultivation is considered an avenue for realizing several of the Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs), such as generating income, creating rural employment, and poverty alleviation 
(FAO, 2023). Coffee cultivation takes place in over 60 countries, primarily in tropical regions 
that are conducive to its growth. Brazil, Vietnam, and Colombia are the leading producers 
worldwide, with Brazil alone accounting for 36% of global coffee production (USDA), while 
the U.S, Brazil and Europe are its top consumers. Additionally, coffee plantations, especially 
shaded farms, provide crucial ecosystem services such as biodiversity conservation (Jha et al., 

3 
 
2014), carbon sequestration (van Rikxoort et al., 2014), and soil protection (Meylan et al., 
2017). 
The coffee market is subject to recurrent supply-demand imbalances and uneven income 
distribution along the value chain. The global exports of coffee were recorded 10.88 million 
bags by December 2022 (ICO, 2023). Per data provided by the International Coffee 
Organization (ICO) in 2023, global coffee production was estimated to have reached 169.34 
million bags, with each bag weighing 60 kg, signifying a decline of 2.2% compared to the 
previous year. In 2021, Brazil suffered a 21.7% drop in coffee production, which amounted to 
an estimated 67.2 million bags due to weather-associated factors such as drought and frost. The 
sustainability of coffee bean production and the impact of climate change are key sources of 
uncertainty for the coffee industry. Climatic conditions, especially during the vegetative and 
reproductive phases of the coffee plant, significantly influence coffee yield (Tavares et al., 
2018). Rising temperatures and precipitation shortages affect flowering, fruiting, and bean 
quality. Furthermore, climate variability is a key factor influencing the incidence of severe pests 
and diseases such as coffee leaf rust and coffee berry borer, which can decrease coffee yield and 
quality and increase production costs (Krishnan, 2017). 
Globally, Coffea arabica and Coffea canephora, commonly referred to as Arabica and Robusta 
coffees respectively, constitute approximately 99% of the coffee production (Jayakumar et al., 
2017). The quality of beans and yield of both species declines when outside these optimal 
temperature ranges (18-22°C for Arabica, while 22-28°C for Robusta), suggesting significant 
sensitivity to climatic changes (Magrach and Ghazoul, 2015). Therefore, from a socio-economic 
standpoint, it is crucial to comprehend the degree of climate-driven impacts on coffee 
production and the advantages of potential adaptation strategies to maintain and enhance coffee 
productivity and profitability while sustaining the livelihoods of smallholder producers globally. 
To protect coffee farms from adverse climatic conditions, keep a sustainable production and 
even enhance coffee yield and productivity, coffee farms demand continuous monitoring of 
every aspect.  

4 
 
Nonetheless, the phenomenon of asynchronous flowering poses a significant challenge for 
coffee growers, leading to irregular fruit ripening (López et al., 2021). This poses problems 
during the harvesting process, as careful attention must be paid to ensure optimal timing. 
Oftentimes, for quality coffee production, coffee farmers resort to the practice of lapsed 
harvesting, wherein they must wait for the next batch of cherries to ripen before harvesting. This 
approach is not only time-consuming but also labor-intensive, requiring frequent visits and 
manual screening of the fruits. It is important to note that the quality of coffee is largely 
dependent on the ripeness of the fruits (Thompson et al., 2012). Coffee fruits, commonly 
referred to as red cherries, undergo a color transformation during the ripening process (Haile 
and Kang, 2019). The term "red cherry" is used to describe the fruit's epidermis when it 
achieves a uniform and intense red color at full ripeness, having progressed through various 
shades of green, orange, and pink. Overripe cherries turn dark violet, while the presence of 
green, overripe, or dry cherries in the harvested mass negatively impacts the quality of the 
beverage and subsequently, its value in the international market (Velásquez et al., 2019). In 
particular, the proportion of green cherries in the harvested mass can significantly affect the 
beverage's acidity. To maintain high-quality standards and command a premium price, it is 
crucial to ensure that at least 98% of the harvested cherries are fully ripe (Leroy et al., 2006).  
In the current landscape, the adoption of new technologies and innovation is imperative for the 
beverage industry to increase productivity and competitiveness. To this end, the scientific 
community is making significant efforts to develop automatic systems that can enhance the 
inspection process. Numerous studies have already been conducted, resulting in the 
development of various applications that have improved for example sorting processes for 
different fruits and vegetables (Hameed et al., 2018). Technological advancements in precision 
agriculture play a vital role in obtaining accurate and reliable measurements for crop 
monitoring. Precision agricultural practices, aimed at achieving high levels of productivity 
while promoting sustainability, can maximize the potential of each region, resulting in increased 
crop productivity and quality and reduced cost. Remote sensing has emerged as a promising 

5 
 
technology for coffee management, with studies demonstrating its efficacy in evaluating coffee 
leaf rust levels through the use of Sentinel 2 sensor and Random Forest (RF) algorithms 
combined with vegetation indices, as described in Chemura et al. research (Chemura et al., 
2017). 
Computer vision has enabled the implementation of non-destructive techniques for detecting 
and identifying vegetative structures in the field using images. These techniques have been 
successfully applied to a wide range of crops including corn (Guerrero et al., 2013) tomatoes 
(Verma et al., 2014), and oranges (Patel et al., 2011). Besides, these techniques have also been 
implemented with grapes (Dey et al., 2012), pineapples (Moonrinta et al., 2010), and vegetable 
crops (Jay et al., 2015). Efficient decision-making on the appropriate harvesting period for 
coffee fruits can be facilitated by tracking their maturation stages through digital phenotyping. 
Ramos (2018) suggests that this can be achieved by determining the percentage of mature fruits 
on tree branches (Ramos et al., 2018). While previous studies have relied on destructive 
sampling, mainly post-harvest, to quantify and classify fruit for yield estimation (Carrillo and 
Penaloza, 2009; de Oliveira et al., 2016), only a limited number of studies have explored the 
classification of coffee fruits before harvest, which can significantly benefit coffee farmers 
decision-making. Earlier, Avendano et al. (2017)) developed a system that constructs a 3D 
representation of coffee branches and classifies their vegetative structures (Avendano et al., 
2017). In this pursuit, another group came a brilliant idea of developing a CV-based non-
destructive method of fruit counting and classification similar to ours (Ramos et al., 2017). 
Few advancements were recently seen in this field. For example, a  study developed a 
vegetation index (VI) for coffee ripeness based on the imaging data obtained from coffee fields 
through an RGB and a five-band multi-spectral cameras, each fixed on a separate UAV 
(Nogueira Martins et al., 2021). Similarly, Rodriguez et al. earlier came with a classic computer 
vision approach, however, it involved many instruments for image acquisition, a complex image 
processing system with precision values (Rodríguez et al., 2020). Although this technique 
requires the extraction of various features and their input into a classification algorithm, recent 

6 
 
advancements in computer vision systems based on deep learning allow for the automatic 
extraction of multiple features. These techniques have gained popularity due to their speed and 
accuracy. A very recent study devised yield mapping technique during harvest based on imaging 
from a camera mounted over the harvesting machine, however, they used an older version of the 
algorithm, YOLOv4 (Bochkovskiy et al., 2020). Moreover, their mAP value was 83.5% which 
is lower than ours which is >89% (Bazame et al., 2022). Previously, the same group used a 
similar approach for mapping coffee yield, however the highest average precision 84% was yet 
lower (Bazame et al., 2021).  
The current study aimed at implementing the state-of-the-art CNN-based computer vision 
algorithm YOLOv7, the latest version (Wang et al., 2022), to detect and classify coffee fruits on 
tree branches at different maturation stages. The algorithm was first trained with training data 
(324 annotated images) and then evaluated with test data (82 unannotated images). We aimed at 
introducing a novel semi-supervised method for annotating the training data, which would save 
time and be able to handle large sets of data. Last but not the least, our objective was to develop 
a handy mobile phone application for efficient image processing. This AI-based technology 
when integrated with other tools such as UAV would efficiently remotely monitor coffee field 
for informed decision about irrigation, fertilizer application and other measures of timely field 
management, implementing precision agriculture in sustainable quality coffee production chain. 
Nonetheless, this machine learning intelligent model could also be tailored for various 
other fruit farming. 
2. Materials and Methods 
2.1. Simple Workflow of developing an ML-based Fruit Detection, Sorting and Quantification 
The first step in developing an AI-based fruit counting and classification system is to collect 
data on the coffee plants and fruits. This data is usually collected using cameras or sensors that 
capture images of the plants and fruits, and then annotated. Annotation refers to the process of 
labeling the data with useful information that can help the machine learning algorithm recognize 
the different features of the coffee plants and fruits. For instance, in the case of coffee plants, the 

7 
 
annotations can include information about the location of the fruits, the number of fruits, their 
size, shape, and color. Data annotation can be done manually by humans or through automated 
annotation tools. The next step is to train a machine learning algorithm to recognize and count 
the fruits, which is done by feeding the algorithm with the annotated images and allowing it to 
learn to recognize the patterns that distinguish the fruits from other objects in the image. The 
machine learning algorithm is trained on the training dataset, and its performance is evaluated 
on the validation dataset. The testing and validation process usually involves comparing the 
predicted results of the model with the ground truth values of the validation dataset.  
2.2. Data Collection 
Following the approach mentioned above, we began by collecting images from various 
coffee farms at Lavras, and surrounding areas, Minas Gerais. For a broad applicability, the 
images used in this study were collected at included images of coffee fruits of every stage as 
the images were taken along a course of time from unripen green fruits to ripened cherries 
and raisin ones. The fruit bearing branches were photographed using various smartphone 
cameras at different angles to achieve representative data. 
2.3.  Data Splitting 
The dataset was split into training and validation sets, with a training split of 80% (324 images, 
33,717 fruits) and a validation split of 20% (82 images, 10,094 fruits). This random division of 
the dataset ensures that the models are trained on a diverse set of images and can generalize 
well to new data. 
2.4. Data Annotation 
The images were manually annotated using Label Studio (Label Studio), an open-source 
platform for creating labeled datasets, to accurately identify the coffee cherries on the tree 
canopy. In the process of annotation, the scale presented previously (Ságio, 2009), was used 
as reference. To facilitate model training, all images were resized to 640 x 640 pixels. To 
further improve the model ability to generalize, default data augmentation techniques specific 

8 
 
to the implemented models were used. In particular, we used mosaic augmentation, as 
described earlier (Bochkovskiy et al., 2020), to randomly combine multiple images into a 
single training sample. YOLO is a part of a family of one-stage object detectors and is 
popular for its speed and accuracy (Wu et al., 2020). Here we also evaluated and compared 
the efficiency of YOLOv5 (Jocher et al., 2022), 6 (Li et al., 2023) and 7 (Wang et al., 2022), 
which are the latest and have not been employed before for this purpose. An ideal state-of-
the-art model should have (1) a faster and stronger network architecture; (2) a more effective 
feature integration method; (3) a more accurate detection method; (4) a more robust loss 
function; (5) a more efficient label assignment method; and (6) a more efficient training 
method. As compared to YOLOv4, YOLOv7 has been proved to more efficient even with 
75% less parameters and 36% less computation (Wang et al., 2022). This approach increased 
the diversity of the training set and helped the models learn to better handle occlusions and 
other challenging conditions. Notably, the collected images contained a certain level of noise, 
which reflects the reality of field data collection and further challenges the models ability to 
generalize. Equations 1 and 2 were used in comparing the three different models. 
𝐼𝑜𝑈= 𝐴∩𝐵
𝐴∪𝐵 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) 
whereas; IoU - Intersection over Union, A - Ground Truth Boxes, B - Predicted Boxes, 
𝐴𝑃𝑖= ∫𝑃(𝑅)𝑑𝑅
1
0
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) 
whereas; AP - Average Precision, P – Precision, R – Recall, dR - Recall 
2.5.  Developing a semi-supervised annotation system 
To accelerate the annotation process, we utilized the annotation text-file in yolo format (used 
for training the models in binary and multiclass mode) to collect objects (coffee fruits) in 
images, which were then subjected to cropping and resizing to 28x28x3 dimensions. To 
address potential lighting variations, we converted the resized RGB images into the LAB 
color-space and extracted the A and B color channels for further analysis, eliminating the L 

9 
 
channel, since the lightning variation could enhance bias into categorizing fruits based on 
shadow and light variations. The AB color space images were represented as vectors in a 
multidimensional space, and K-means models were trained with different k-sizes (2 to 7) on a 
dataset of approximately 36,000 fruits randomly selected from the dataset to create different 
classes of colors of fruits.  
To enable semi-supervised learning, we curated annotations comprising manually annotated 
bounding boxes but unsupervised sub-categories of fruits. By leveraging these annotations, 
we performed semi-supervised learning in object detection tasks in the selected model 
(Yolov7), which is crucial for real-world applications. By allowing the creation of in-demand 
complex subcategories of objects, the selected model was trained in the semi-supervised 
learned sub-categories of fruits and contrasted with the performance from the model of 
supervised learning from the same number of categories and hyperparameters. The semi-
supervised learning categories can be more representative of the mathematical process of 
categorization in AI and avoid human error being propagated through the machine learning 
metrics by imposing categories or scales. Besides that, the unsupervised learned categories 
accelerate the process of annotations and can be used to create mathematically-optimized 
models and scales. 
2.6. Training Details 
All object detection models were trained using the default hyperparameters specified in the 
respective papers or repositories, except for the batch size and number of epochs. For this 
study, a batch size of 16 and 100 epochs were used for all models. The training and evaluation 
were conducted on a Tesla T4 GPU. The evaluation metrics used in this study included Precision 
(Equation 3), Recall (Equation 4), and mAP (Equation 5). 
𝑃=
𝑇𝑃
𝑇𝑃+𝐹𝑃 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(3) 
whereas; P - Precision, TP – Total Positives, FP – False Positives, 
𝑅=
𝑇𝑃
𝑇𝑃+𝐹𝑁 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(4) 

10 
 
whereas; R - Recall, TP – Total Positives, FN - False Negatives 
𝑚𝐴𝑃@. 5 = 
1
𝑛 ∑𝑛
𝑖=0
APi0.5  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(5) 
whereas; mAP - mean Average Precision, AP – Average Precision 
2.7.  Validation of the model 
The selected model was used to quantify coffee fruits and their specific class based on their 
maturity level, such as unripe and ripe. The model was trained on a large dataset of coffee fruit 
images with labels indicating their class. The model was able to learn features and patterns that 
distinguish different maturation stages of coffee fruits from each other. The model was then 
applied to images of the entire dataset of coffee fruits to predict their class and count the number 
of fruits in each image. The model’s performance was evaluated by comparing its predictions 
with the ground truth labels obtained from the manual annotation process. The model accuracy 
and precision were reported as metrics of its effectiveness in quantifying coffee fruits and their 
specific class. The equations 6 and 7 were used to determined ripeness and unripeness. 
Ripeness (%) = 
𝑁(𝑟𝑖𝑝𝑒 𝑓𝑟𝑢𝑖𝑡𝑠)
𝑁(𝑡𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙 𝑓𝑟𝑢𝑖𝑡𝑠) × 100 
 
 
 
 
 
(6) 
Unripeness (%) = 100 −𝑅𝑖𝑝𝑒𝑛𝑒𝑠𝑠 (%) 
 
 
 
 
 
(7) 
2.8.  Mobile application development 
Based on the script developed, we designed a mobile phone application, capable of data 
acquisition and immediate image processing more convenient.    
3. Results and Discussion 
3.1.Label Studio and Google CoLab are ideal platforms for annotation and Machine 
learning 
All the images taken in the field were tagged and stored in a local database. To train a computer 
vision-based machine for example to identify the target object in an image in this case, the 
algorithm should be first fed with annotated images. In order to train the model for a diverse 

11 
 
range of images, we deliberately included images of coffee plant branches in shade and those 
exposed to sunlight, and even with varied angles and distance. There are several platforms 
available for image annotation, however, here we annotated our training data through bounding 
boxes using the online LabelStudio platform. The LabelStudio proved efficient both for aiming 
the object such as where the object in the image is located as well as classifying it such as what 
the object is and to which category it belongs. We annotated the whole training data using 
LabelStudio, while for executing the YOLO through script, we used Google CoLab. At the 
Google CoLab, the online GPUs allow for faster execution of the code and developing of the 
model. Google CoLab readily processed all the annotated images and unannotated data. 
Moreover, it also drew the plots. Figure 1 shows the image before (1A) and after (2B) 
annotation with Label Studio. Different colored fruit were labeled with different colored boxes. 
 
Figure 1. Annotation of an image using Label Studio. The unannotated image (A) depicts a branch of 
coffee plant bearing fruits at various stages such as green, yellow, red, raisin and black. Using Label 
Studio, all the visible fruits in image were annotated (B). Different colored boxes were used to classify 
the fruit at various stages such as unripe, yellow, cherry, raisin and dry. The whole training dataset (324 
images) were annotated in the same way. 
3.2.YOLOv7 processed the images with the highest mean average precision 

12 
 
In the dataset of total 406 images, 324 were used for training data while 82 as test data. After 
training the algorithm, the selected models (YOLOv5, 6 and 7), chosen for their high mean 
average precision at 50% intersection over union (mAP@.5) and real-time object detection 
capabilities in COCO dataset (13; 14), were trained on our training dataset (324 images). While 
comparing the object detection efficiency of three different YOLO versions, the results showed 
that YOLOv7 achieved the highest mAP@.5 values in all modes, followed by Yolov5 and 
Yolov6.. YOLOv7 showed mAP@.5 value of 0.904 for mono class (only fruit), 0.892 for binary 
class (unripe/ripe) while 0.605 for multiclass (green, yellow-green, cherry, raisin, dry). The rest 
two versions showed lesser values for all categories (Table 1). This is further elaborated in 
figure 2 in which all the three versions showed higher performance at mono and binary class but 
lower at multiclass mode, however, YOLOv7 performed better in all three modes. Though it 
displayed better results even in multiclass mode, yet it needs further improvement to achieve 
higher results. Enlarging the training dataset could also further improve its performance. 
Table 1. Comparison of object detection performance of three different YOLO versions in three 
different modes (Mono, Binary, and Multiclass). The values of precision (P), recall (R) and mAP@.5 
are calculated using the test data. The parameters values indicate the complexity of the models. 
Model 
P 
R 
mAP@.5val 
Parameters 
Yolov7(Mono) 
0.852 
0.871 
0.904 
36.9M 
Yolov7(Binary) 
0.845 
0.852 
0.892 
36.9M 
Yolov7(Multiclass) 
0.627 
0.682 
0.605 
36.9M 
Yolov5(Mono) 
0.875 
0.819 
0.885 
21.2M 
Yolov5(Binary) 
0.844 
0.821 
0.866 
21.2M 
Yolov5(Multiclass) 
0.64 
0.562 
0.555 
21.2M 
Yolov6(Mono) 
0.873 
0.833 
0.898 
35.7M 
Yolov6(Binary) 
0.848 
0.821 
0.875 
35.7M 
Yolov6(Multiclass) 
0.721 
0.547 
0.556 
35.7M 
 

13 
 
 
Figure 2. Comparison of the performance of three different YOLO versions. For the mean average 
precision at 50% intersection over union (mAP@.5) in three modes of the dataset: Mono (only fruits), 
Binary (unripe and ripe fruits), and Multiclass (continuous classification scale - unripe, yellow, cherry, 
raisin and dry), Yolov7 outperformed Yolv5 and Yolov5m6. 
3.3. A novel semi-supervised annotation system was developed for automatic labelling 
After the model was trained with the training data, and YOLOv7 selected to proceed with, 
instead of manual annotation (object classification), which is obviously time-consuming and 
error-prone, we attempted to automate the annotation of images, which was termed as semi-
supervised annotation. In this approach, the bounding boxes for training data were yet manual, 
however, the classification was automatic, hence named as semi-supervised. In other words, we 
manually located fruits in the image for machine while the machine itself labelled them with 
their respective categories. This successfully led to the development of a semi-supervised 
annotation system for training data. Here, K-means clustering was used to create categories of 
coffee fruits based on their color. We trained K-means models with different k-sizes ranging 
from 2 to 7 and evaluated their performance based on their ability to identify distinct color 
clusters. To our interest, the K-means model efficiently identified distinct color clusters within 
the high-dimensional (28*28*2 axis) and created categories of coffee fruits that were visually 
distinguishable. In this novel approach, the categories were composed of coffee fruits with 

14 
 
similar color representing similar ripening stage, which can be useful for further analysis and 
classification. After categorization, we performed PCA in the high-dimensional vector to 
produce visualization of the boundaries among clusters (Figure 3).  
 
Figure 3. Principal Component analysis of dataset annotated through semi-supervised approach. 
Various clusters in each class are visible in different colors. As the number of classes increased from two 
to seven classes, the mAP@.5 value also increased, however 4 classes appeared to be optimum. 
The seven various color classes of the coffee fruit ripening stage created through k-means are 
shown in figure 4. Employing semi-supervised approach, we attempted to annotate the same 
training dataset which was earlier annotated using supervised method. Interestingly, the 
precision of detection increased with the increase in number of classes, whereas the optimal 
number of classes was determined to be 4. 
However, it is important to note that the categories created by K-means were based solely on 
color and did not necessarily correspond to different types or varieties of coffee fruits, such as 
maturity. Therefore, further analysis and classification was required to accurately identify the 
different types of coffee fruits being represented in each category. The further analysis to 

15 
 
acknowledge this problem was performed by correlating the output categories with the Moraes 
categories used in the annotation process. By doing this, we defined categories in a crescent 
order of maturity. 
 
Figure 3. K-means-based machine–generated color classes as semi-supervised method. There were 
up to 7 classes generated keeping k = 7, however the optimal number of classes was determined as 4.   
3.4. Semi-supervised system proved faster and more accurate 

16 
 
To validate the efficiency as well as consistency of the novel machine learning method, we 
compared the performance of semi-supervised model with the unsupervised one. Figure 5 shows 
the comparative performance of supervised and semi-supervised annotations in binary as well as 
multiclass modes. To our interest, the semi-supervised model performed faster and more 
accurate annotation than the supervised one. Figure 5A depicts images annotated through 
supervised (5A) and semi-supervised (5B) method for binary class annotation. The number of 
ripe (R) and unripe (UR) fruit through ML-based annotation is written above each image. The 
comparison of supervised and semi-supervised annotation methods in multi-class mode is 
shown in Figures 5C and 5D, respectively. The number as well as class of the fruit detected are 
mentioned in the figure. The images in both the binary and multiclass represent four different 
time points of fruit ripening (from earlier (A, B) to later stages (C, D)). Comparing both the 
cases (Figure 5A, B and 5C, D), it is clear that semi-supervised annotation surpassed the 
supervised annotation in terms of speed and accuracy. This is further elaborated graphically in 
Figure 6. For binary class, the supervised and semi-supervised training models had an equal 
mAP@.5 of .89 (Figure 6A), showing similar performance for both methods. However for 
multi-class detection (Figure 6B), the mAP@.5 was 0.77 in case of semi-supervised model, 
which was only 0.6 with the supervised method, keeping the number of categories the 4 I both 
cases. It proves the high resolving power of the semi-supervised annotation. Moreover, its faster 
and more accurate annotation feature will aid in machine learning of large dataset, in less time. 
This is a novel and rigorous approach to analyze large-scale coffee-fruits datasets, which can 
have significant implications for various fields such as computer vision, image processing, and 
machine learning.   

17 
 
 
Figure 5. Comparative performance of supervised and semi-supervised methods. The novel method 
of semi-supervised annotation was compared with the supervised for binary (Supervised – 1A Semi-
supervised – 1B) and multi-class (Supervised – 2A, Semi-supervised –2B) models. The numerals show 
fruit counts while letters denote fruit type as UR – Unripe, RP – Ripe, C – Cherry G – Green, GY – 
Green-yellow, R – Raisin. 

18 
 
 
Figure 6. Graphical representation of the comparative performance of supervised and semi-
supervised methods. For binary class, the supervised and semi-supervised training models had an equal 
mAP@.5 of .89, showing similar performance for both methods (A). However, for multi-class annotation, 
the semi-supervised method displayed higher mAP@.5 value of 0.77 as compared to 0.66 of the 
supervised method (B), showing better performance. 
3.5.The established model was validated using test images outside our dataset  
To check the efficiency of our trained model, we initially tested it by feeding raw images, not 
included in our initial dataset. Afterwards, we also tracked the ripening of coffee fruits in real 
time. Both the approaches proved the image processing efficiency of our established model. 
Figure 7 depicts raw images not originally included in our dataset. Raw images from the field 
were analyzed with the model whereas; figure 7A shows the binary class detection counting 
only ripe and unripe fruits. However, multi-class fruit detection and quantification, classifying 
them into green, green-yellow, cherry and raisin is also shown in figure 7B. The number and 
category of the fruit are written above each image. This proved the model was successful in 
image processing. A collection of data like this will provide a broad picture of the fruit ripening 
pattern, estimated yield and harvesting time. The big data will eventually aid in informed 
decision on coffee crop management specially plans for harvest and post-harvest measures. 

19 
 
 
Figure 7. Validation of the established model using test images outside of dataset. Raw images from 
coffee field were analyzed by the for binary (A) and multi-class (B) fruit detection. The numerals show 
fruit counts while letters denote fruit type as UR – Unripe, RP – Ripe, C – Cherry G – Green, GY – 
Green-yellow, R – Raisin. 
For further validation, we tracked and analyzed the fruit ripening in real time for 90 days. Figure 
8A shows the ripening in binary mode (unripe and ripe) over the said time duration. Figure 8B 
depicts the ripening information of the same data in multi-class mode over the 3-month period. 
In addition to its yield estimation capabilities, the Yolov7 model can also extract valuable 
information about the ripening process of crops over time. By calculating the percentage of ripe 
fruits over months, we can create plots that visualize the progression of ripeness levels as the 
crops mature, as well as the categorization of the pattern of maturation present in the farm. 
These plots provide farmers and researchers with valuable insights into the development of the 
crop, enabling them to plan harvesting schedules, optimize yields, and better understand the 

20 
 
underlying biological processes at work. By quantifying ripeness in this way, we can improve 
our ability to predict and manage crop yields, ultimately leading to more efficient and 
sustainable agricultural practices. Furthermore, the data collected from the model allowed for an 
analysis of the distribution of ripe and unripe fruits throughout the growing season.  
 
 
Figure 8. Tracking coffee fruit ripening with the developed model over a period of 3 months. Plots 
show the percentage of ripe and unripe fruits over time in binary (A) and multi-class (B) modes. 
3.6. CoffeApp: An AI-based multi-functional coffee plant monitoring platform 
The app was developed using the FLutter SDK. Flutter was chosen because it facilitates the 
generation of the APP for IOS and Android by writing only one source code. Figure 9 presents 
the architecture behind the APP. Our architecture is based on the micro-service concept. Where 

21 
 
we have a backend, developed in Python, using the FastAPI lib. FastAPI framework, high 
performance, easy to learn, fast to code, ready for production. Note that the App communicates 
through the HTTP protocol, in other words, a REST API, developed using the Lib FastAPI. 
 
 
Figure 9. Architecture of the CoffeApp.  
Various features were incorporated in the application to perform multiple tasks. On the basis of 
its training, the CoffeApp is able to analyzed diverse array of images. Figure 10 shows glimpses 
of the graphical user interface of the app, wherein; 10A is the app logo, 10B is the start screen in 
which multiple options are given to start the analysis with, while 10C shows the parameters 
such as quantity or class to analyze of coffee fruit, and 10D shows the camera function in the 
app where branch of coffee fruit is photographed. CoffeApp would aid the farmers and 
researchers in coffee farming, specially for taking informed decision about plant health, yield 
estimate, harvest time and post-harvest measures.  
 
Figure 10. Graphical user interface (GUI) of the Android application (CoffeApp) for coffee plant 
monitoring. The application logo (A), home (B), fruit analysis parameters such as quantity, class or both 
(C) and camera function to capture images (D) are shown. 

22 
 
Conclusions  
As a temperature sensitive topical plant, weather changes can greatly affect coffee yield. Thus, 
on-farm non-destructive monitoring of coffee is indispensable for sustainable coffee production. 
Under these scenarios, computer vision-aided coffee fruit quantification and yield estimation 
studies have been carried out in the recent past, however some of them used expensive 
machinery and complex image processing while some used older outdated machine learning 
models. Moreover, no mobile phone application had been developed for convenient and 
efficient coffee fruit counting and yield estimation, to date. Using the latest state-of-the-art 
YOLOv7, we obtained an mAP@.5 of 0.89, the highest ever so far. We also devised a novel 
method of semi-supervised annotation for the training data. This would greatly aid in handling 
large datasets and save time. Last but not the least, the CoffeApp, we designed is the first of its 
kind in CV-aided coffee fruit counting, through which not only researchers but common farmers 
would estimate the yield as well as harvest time. With the integration of UAV and other value 
addition, the app holds enormous potential to be used in monitoring coffee farms for informed 
decision on timely field management, harvest time and post-harvest measures, which will 
ultimately enhance coffee yield and contribute to sustainable coffee production.  
Acknowledgements 
The authors thank the members of the Laboratory of Plant Molecular Physiology (LFMP, 
UFLA/Brazil) for structural support of the experiments, and Instituto Brasileiro de Ciência e 
Tecnologia do Café (INCT-Café) to support plant material and field experiments, Fundaç ão de 
Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de Minas Gerais (FAPEMIG, grant number CAP APQ 03605/17), 
Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico and INCT-Café for the 
financial support; CNPq for scholarship research for ACJ under grant number 310216/2019-2, 
and grant #2021/06968-3, São Paulo Research Foundation (FAPESP) for financial support. 
Declaration of competing interest 
The authors declare no competing interest. 

23 
 
Authors contribution 
Antonio Chalfun Junior: Conceptualization, Funding acquisition, Methodology, Project 
administration Resources, Supervision. Raphael Ricon de Oliveira: Conceptualization, 
Investigation, Methodology, Software, Supervision, Writing - review & editing. Francisco 
Eron: Data curation, Formal analysis, Visualization, Investigation, Software, Writing - original 
draft. Muhammad Noman: Supervision, Visualization, Writing - original draft, Writing - 
review & editing. Rafael Serapihla Durelli: Software. Deigo de Souza Marque: Software. 
Andre Pimenta Friere: Software. 
References 
Avendano, J., Ramos, P.J., Prieto, F.A., 2017. A system for classifying vegetative structures on 
coffee branches based on videos recorded in the field by a mobile device. Expert Syst. 
Appl. 88, 178–192. https://doi.org/https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2017.06.044 
Bazame, H.C., Molin, J.P., Althoff, D., Martello, M., 2021. Detection, classification, and 
mapping of coffee fruits during harvest with computer vision. Comput. Electron. Agric. 
183, 106066. https://doi.org/https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2021.106066 
Bazame, H.C., Molin, J.P., Althoff, D., Martello, M., Corrêdo, L.D.P., 2022. Mapping coffee 
yield with computer vision. Precis. Agric. 23, 2372–2387. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11119-
022-09924-0 
Bochkovskiy, A., Wang, C.-Y., Liao, H.-Y.M., 2020. Yolov4: Optimal speed and accuracy of 
object detection. arXiv Prepr. arXiv2004.10934. 
Carrillo, E., Penaloza, A.A., 2009. Artificial vision to assure coffee-Excelso beans quality, in: 
Proceedings of the 2009 Euro American Conference on Telematics and Information 
Systems: New Opportunities to Increase Digital Citizenship. pp. 1–8. 
Chemura, A., Kutywayo, D., Chidoko, P., Mahoya, C., 2016. Bioclimatic modelling of current 
and projected climatic suitability of coffee (Coffea arabica) production in Zimbabwe. Reg. 

24 
 
Environ. Chang. 16, 473–485. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10113-015-0762-9 
Chemura, A., Mutanga, O., Dube, T., 2017. Separability of coffee leaf rust infection levels with 
machine learning methods at Sentinel-2 MSI spectral resolutions. Precis. Agric. 18, 859–
881. 
de Oliveira, E.M., Leme, D.S., Barbosa, B.H.G., Rodarte, M.P., Pereira, R.G.F.A., 2016. A 
computer vision system for coffee beans classification based on computational intelligence 
techniques. 
J. 
Food 
Eng. 
171, 
22–27. 
https://doi.org/https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jfoodeng.2015.10.009 
Dey, D., Mummert, L., Sukthankar, R., 2012. Classification of plant structures from 
uncalibrated image sequences, in: 2012 IEEE Workshop on the Applications of Computer 
Vision (WACV). IEEE, pp. 329–336. 
FAO, 
2023. 
Food 
and 
Agriculture 
Organization 
[WWW 
Document]. 
URL 
https://www.fao.org/markets-and-trade/commodities/coffee/en/ (accessed 4.9.23). 
Guerrero, J.M., Guijarro, M., Montalvo, M., Romeo, J., Emmi, L., Ribeiro, A., Pajares, G., 
2013. Automatic expert system based on images for accuracy crop row detection in maize 
fields. Expert Syst. Appl. 40, 656–664. 
Haile, M., Kang, W.H., 2019. The harvest and post-harvest management practices’ impact on 
coffee quality. Coffee-Production Res. 1–18. 
Hameed, K., Chai, D., Rassau, A., 2018. A comprehensive review of fruit and vegetable 
classification techniques. Image Vis. Comput. 80, 24–44. 
ICO, 
2023. 
International 
Coffee 
Organization 
[WWW 
Document]. 
2023. 
URL 
https://www.ico.org/ (accessed 3.27.23). 
Jay, S., Rabatel, G., Hadoux, X., Moura, D., Gorretta, N., 2015. In-field crop row phenotyping 
from 3D modeling performed using Structure from Motion. Comput. Electron. Agric. 110, 
70–77. 

25 
 
Jayakumar, M., Rajavel, M., Surendran, U., Gopinath, G., Ramamoorthy, K., 2017. Impact of 
climate variability on coffee yield in India—with a micro-level case study using long-term 
coffee yield data of humid tropical Kerala. Clim. Change 145, 335–349. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10584-017-2101-2 
Jha, S., Bacon, C.M., Philpott, S.M., Ernesto Méndez, V., Läderach, P., Rice, R.A., 2014. Shade 
Coffee: Update on a Disappearing Refuge for Biodiversity. Bioscience 64, 416–428. 
https://doi.org/10.1093/biosci/biu038 
Jocher, G., Chaurasia, A., Stoken, A., Borovec, J., Kwon, Y., 2022. ultralytics/yolov5: V6. 1-
TensorRT TensorFlow edge TPU and OpenVINO export and inference. Zenodo 2, 2. 
Krishnan, 
S., 
2017. 
Sustainable 
Coffee 
Production. 
https://doi.org/10.1093/acrefore/9780199389414.013.224 
LabelStudio, 
n.d. 
Open 
Source 
Data 
Labeling 
[WWW 
Document]. 
2021. 
URL 
https://labelstud.io/ (accessed 3.13.23). 
Läderach, P., Ramirez–Villegas, J., Navarro-Racines, C., Zelaya, C., Martinez–Valle, A., Jarvis, 
A., 2017. Climate change adaptation of coffee production in space and time. Clim. Change 
141, 47–62. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10584-016-1788-9 
Leroy, T., Ribeyre, F., Bertrand, B., Charmetant, P., Dufour, M., Montagnon, C., Marraccini, P., 
Pot, D., 2006. Genetics of coffee quality. Brazilian J. plant Physiol. 18, 229–242. 
Li, C., Li, L., Geng, Y., Jiang, H., Cheng, M., Zhang, B., Ke, Z., Xu, X., Chu, X., 2023. 
YOLOv6 v3. 0: A Full-Scale Reloading. arXiv Prepr. arXiv2301.05586. 
López, M.E., Santos, I.S., de Oliveira, R.R., Lima, A.A., Cardon, C.H., Chalfun-Junior, A., n.d. 
An overview of the endogenous and environmental factors related to the Coffea arabica 
flowering process. Beverage Plant Res. 1, 1–16. https://doi.org/10.48130/BPR-2021-0013 
Magrach, A., Ghazoul, J., 2015. Climate and Pest-Driven Geographic Shifts in Global Coffee 
Production: Implications for Forest Cover, Biodiversity and Carbon Storage. PLoS One 

26 
 
10, e0133071. 
Meylan, L., Gary, C., Allinne, C., Ortiz, J., Jackson, L., Rapidel, B., 2017. Evaluating the effect 
of shade trees on provision of ecosystem services in intensively managed coffee 
plantations. 
Agric. 
Ecosyst. 
Environ. 
245, 
32–42. 
https://doi.org/https://doi.org/10.1016/j.agee.2017.05.005 
Moonrinta, J., Chaivivatrakul, S., Dailey, M.N., Ekpanyapong, M., 2010. Fruit detection, 
tracking, and 3D reconstruction for crop mapping and yield estimation, in: 2010 11th 
International Conference on Control Automation Robotics & Vision. IEEE, pp. 1181–
1186. 
Nogueira Martins, R., de Carvalho Pinto, F.D., Marçal de Queiroz, D., Magalhães Valente, D.S., 
Fim Rosas, J.T., 2021. A Novel Vegetation Index for Coffee Ripeness Monitoring Using 
Aerial Imagery. Remote Sens. https://doi.org/10.3390/rs13020263 
Patel, H.N., Jain, R.K., Joshi, M. V, 2011. Fruit detection using improved multiple features 
based algorithm. Int. J. Comput. Appl. 13, 1–5. 
Ramos, P.J., Avendaño, J., Prieto, F.A., 2018. Measurement of the ripening rate on coffee 
branches by using 3D images in outdoor environments. Comput. Ind. 99, 83–95. 
https://doi.org/https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compind.2018.03.024 
Ramos, P.J., Prieto, F.A., Montoya, E.C., Oliveros, C.E., 2017. Automatic fruit count on coffee 
branches 
using 
computer 
vision. 
Comput. 
Electron. 
Agric. 
137, 
9–22. 
https://doi.org/https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2017.03.010 
Rodríguez, J.P., Corrales, D.C., Aubertot, J.-N., Corrales, J.C., 2020. A computer vision system 
for automatic cherry beans detection on coffee trees. Pattern Recognit. Lett. 136, 142–153. 
https://doi.org/https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patrec.2020.05.034 
Ságio, S.A., 2009. Características fisiológicas e bioquímicas de frutos de duas cultivares de café 
de ciclos de maturação precoce e tardio. 

27 
 
Tavares, P. da S., Giarolla, A., Chou, S.C., Silva, A.J. de P., Lyra, A. de A., 2018. Climate 
change impact on the potential yield of Arabica coffee in southeast Brazil. Reg. Environ. 
Chang. 18, 873–883. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10113-017-1236-z 
Thompson, S.S., Miller, K.B., Lopez, A.S., Camu, N., 2012. Cocoa and coffee. Food Microbiol. 
Fundam. Front. 881–899. 
van Rikxoort, H., Schroth, G., Läderach, P., Rodríguez-Sánchez, B., 2014. Carbon footprints 
and carbon stocks reveal climate-friendly coffee production. Agron. Sustain. Dev. 34, 887–
897. https://doi.org/10.1007/s13593-014-0223-8 
Velásquez, S., Peña, N., Bohórquez, J.C., Gutierrez, N., Sacks, G.L., 2019. Volatile and sensory 
characterization of roast coffees–Effects of cherry maturity. Food Chem. 274, 137–145. 
Verma, U., Rossant, F., Bloch, I., Orensanz, J., Boisgontier, D., 2014. Shape-based segmentation 
of tomatoes for agriculture monitoring, in: ICPRAM. 
Wang, C.-Y., Bochkovskiy, A., Liao, H.-Y.M., 2022. YOLOv7: Trainable bag-of-freebies sets 
new state-of-the-art for real-time object detectors. arXiv Prepr. arXiv2207.02696. 
Wu, D., Lv, S., Jiang, M., Song, H., 2020. Using channel pruning-based YOLO v4 deep learning 
algorithm for the real-time and accurate detection of apple flowers in natural 
environments. Comput. Electron. Agric. 178, 105742. 
 
