Original papers
Video-based fruit detection and tracking: effects of scanning conditions on 
fruit load estimation
Marc Felip-Pom´es a,b,c, Jordi Gen´e-Mola c,*, Jaume Arn´o a,b, Jaume Lordan d,  
Javier Ruiz-Hidalgo e, Josep-Ramon Morros e, Miguel Arasanz-Malo c
, Francesc Net-Barn´es a,  
Eduard Gregorio a,b
a Research Group in AgroICT & Precision Agriculture, Department of Agricultural and Forest Sciences and Engineering, Universitat de Lleida (UdL), Lleida, Catalonia, 
Spain
b Agrotecnio-CERCA Center, Lleida, Catalonia, Spain
c Efficient Use of Water in Agriculture Program, Institute of AgriFood, Research and Technology (IRTA), Parc Científic i Tecnol`ogic Agroalimentari de Gardeny (PCiTAL), 
Fruitcentre, Lleida, Catalonia, Spain
d Fruit Production Program, Institute of AgriFood, Research and Technology (IRTA), Parc Científic i Tecnol`ogic Agroalimentari de Gardeny (PCiTAL), Fruitcentre, Lleida, 
Catalonia, Spain
e Department of Signal Theory and Communications, Universitat Polit`ecnica de Catalunya, Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain
A R T I C L E I N F O
Keywords:
Yield mapping
Fruit counting
RGB-D cameras
Deep learning
Precision agriculture
A B S T R A C T
Automated fruit counting and yield estimation systems are necessary for efficient orchard management. This 
study presents a computer vision system based on video multi-object-tracking for fruit load estimation in apple 
orchards and provides a comprehensive analysis of the system performance under diverse scanning conditions. 
The system integrates fruit detection, tracking, localization within orchard, and fruit load map generation. Ex­
periments were carried out in an experimental apple orchard containing 420 apple trees. Data was collected with 
two different RGB-D sensors (Azure Kinect DK and ZED 2) at three different scanning distances (125 cm, 175 cm, 
and 225 cm) on two different dates prior to the harvest. Comparing the two evaluated sensors, Azure Kinect 
provided more consistent performance across different dates. Results also show that the longer scanning distance 
improves accuracy due to seeing the full tree view gives better fruit counts than close partial views. Between the 
two dates, best results were achieved near harvest due to fruit color at this stage, achieving a Mean Absolute 
Percentage Error (MAPE) of 6.91 % and a determination coefficient (R2) of 0.733 (using ZED2 sensor at 225 cm 
distance). Finally, a test comparing scanning from one or both sides of the tree row showed that bilateral 
scanning improved fruit load estimation at the stretch level by incorporating information from both sides of the 
canopy. The results of this work demonstrate the effectiveness of the video fruit tracking systems as a useful tool 
for automating fruit load estimation.
1. Introduction
Automated fruit counting systems are increasingly recognized as 
valuable tools for improving orchard management. By enabling more 
accurate and spatially detailed assessment, these systems facilitate bet­
ter planning of harvest, labour, and storage, contributing to more effi­
cient orchard management (He et al., 2022). However, despite the 
significant progress in automated solutions, driven by deep learning in 
computer vision, accurately counting fruits using automated systems 
remains a challenging task. One of the primary challenges is fruit 
occlusion (Gen´e-Mola et al., 2023b; Tian et al., 2019), where fruits are 
partially or fully hidden by leaves, branches, or other fruits. This issue 
directly impacts the reliability of computer vision-based fruit counting 
methods, often leading to underestimation, missed detections, or 
inconsistent observations when fruits become intermittently visible. 
Consequently, occlusions affect not only detection recall but also the 
reliability of automated counting systems. Furthermore, occlusions 
complicate the development of systems capable of generalizing across 
diverse orchard environments, limiting their practical deployment 
(Tang et al., 2023).
* Corresponding author.
E-mail address: jordi.gene@irta.cat (J. Gen´e-Mola). 
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/compag
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2026.112330
Received 5 December 2025; Received in revised form 18 July 2026; Accepted 15 August 2026  
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 255 (2026) 112330 
0168-1699/© 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. This is an open access article under the CC BY license ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ ). 

One way to address this challenge is to capture data from multiple 
viewpoints, assuming that fruits hidden from one angle may be visible 
from another. However, this method risks overestimating fruit counts 
due to duplicate detections from overlapping perspectives. To address 
this issue, some studies have explored 3D fruit detection and localization 
techniques to eliminate duplicate counts (Gen´e-Mola et al., 2021, 2020; 
Santos et al., 2024). Nevertheless, these methods often require sophis­
ticated photogrammetry and precise camera calibration, making them 
complex to implement. Additionally, 3D based methods use to have a 
higher computational complexity that limits its use for real time appli­
cations, and consequently, prevents its deployment for fruit counting in 
large commercial orchards (Miranda et al., 2023).
As an alternative, recent studies have proposed video-based fruit 
detection and counting pipelines based on continuous motion videos 
along the tree rows. In these systems, fruits are detected in each video 
frame, and object tracking algorithms are used to prevent double 
counting, by assigning unique identities to fruits across frames (Ariza- 
Sentís et al., 2024). Most of these pipelines combine object detection 
architectures with tracking algorithms and can be categorized into ap­
proaches based on single-object tracking (SOT) and those based on 
multiple-object tracking (MOT). Among the former, the methodology 
proposed by Gao et al. (2022) combines the YOLOv4-tiny network with 
a trunk tracking approach, offering advantages in terms of low compu­
tational cost. In a related work (Wu et al., 2023b), proposed a method to 
reduce abnormal fruit detections using distance and confidence 
thresholds. The same authors also introduced a twice-matched fruit 
counting pipeline to address the limitations posed by clustered fruits 
(Wu et al., 2023a).
Regarding MOT-based methods, matching detections of the same 
object between consecutive frames typically relies on motion and 
appearance information. SORT (Bewley et al., 2016a) and ByteTrack 
(Zhang et al., 2022a) use a Kalman filter to predict the object's future 
position, while DeepSORT (Wojke et al., 2017) incorporates appearance 
descriptors to associate detections based on both motion predictions and 
visual similarity. In recent years, MOT tracking algorithms have been 
used for apple counting, with several compared in a comprehensive 
study of tracking-by-detection methods by Villacr´es et al. (2023). For 
example, He et al. (2022) combined the apple detection results from 
YOLO with a cascade matching approach (CascadeSORT), while more 
recently, Cao et al. (2025) employed drones to detect and count apples 
under different occlusion and illumination conditions, combining YOLO 
with DeepSORT. Vision Transformers have also been applied to auto­
matic apple fruit detection by Hu et. (2023), who combined them with 
YOLO and SORT/CascadeSORT tracking methods. Similar MOT-based 
counting methods have also been developed for other fruits such as 
mangoes (Gu et al., 2024), tomatoes (Kang et al., 2024), oranges (Zhang 
et al., 2022), and strawberries (Zhou et al., 2024).
Many MOT-based fruit counting studies focus mainly on evaluating 
tracking performance using standard metrics, such as Multiple Object 
Tracking Accuracy (MOTA) or Higher Order Tracking Accuracy (HOTA). 
Recent studies have continued to advance MOT-based fruit counting by 
comparing modern detector-tracker combinations for tomato cluster 
yield estimation (Qi et al., 2025) and by improving Kalman-filter-based 
multi-object tracking for fruit counting in complex orchard scenes (Zhai 
et al., 2025). However, discrepancies between predicted fruit counts and 
actual harvest data are still less frequently addressed. This gap un­
derscores the need to evaluate video-based fruit counting systems not 
only through detection or tracking metrics, but also through their ability 
to estimate actual fruit load under practical orchard acquisition condi­
tions. The present study extends a previous work (Gen´e-Mola et al., 
2023a) which evaluated the performance of MOT algorithms such as 
SORT, DeepSORT, and ByteTrack for fruit tracking in orchards. Building 
upon that tracker evaluation, the contribution of this work lies in the 
development of a fruit counting algorithm based on the tracking output 
and a comprehensive analysis of the counting system's performance 
under different scanning conditions.
This study hypothesizes that although closer scanning distances 
improve fruit detection, they may compromise overall counting accu­
racy due to limited tree coverage within the camera field of view. 
Therefore, achieving a balance between scanning closer for better 
detection and scanning farther for broader tree visibility is essential for 
accurate fruit counting.
To address this, the current work investigates how scanning condi­
tions impact MOT-based fruit counting accuracy, considering factors 
such as sensor type, fruit maturity stage (green versus mature), and 
scanning distance. The proposed end-to-end system is evaluated using 
data acquired on different dates, with different RGB-D sensors and at 
multiple sensor-to-row distances, enabling a systematic assessment of 
robustness beyond a single controlled setup. By explicitly analysing how 
acquisition conditions influence the trade-off between detection reli­
ability and canopy visibility, this work provides insight into practical 
deployment constraints in orchard environments.
Furthermore, a key contribution of this study is the direct compari­
son between estimated fruit counts and actual harvest data, enabling the 
creation of load maps. This harvest-level ground truth provides a reli­
able basis for quantitative evaluation and offers a practical perspective, 
moving beyond standard video detection metrics. Another strength of 
this work is the comprehensive evaluation of the proposed system under 
multiple field acquisition conditions, including different RGB-D sensors, 
acquisition dates, scanning distances, and scanning patterns. Together, 
these aspects provide actionable insights for improving fruit counting 
methodologies in real-world orchard environments.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows: Section II describes the 
experimental setup used to create the dataset, outlines the methodology 
pipeline, and explains the evaluation metrics. Section III presents the 
results of fruit counting under various scanning conditions. Section IV 
discusses the findings, highlighting the scanning conditions most 
favourable for fruit counting and comparing the results with other state- 
of-the-art approaches. Finally, Section V concludes the study by sum­
marizing key insights and proposing directions for future research.
2. Materials and methods
2.1. Experimental setup
The data were acquired from an experimental mature apple orchard 
(Story® Inoredcov), located in the municipality of Mollerussa, Catalonia, 
Spain (latitude: 41◦37′04.2″N; longitude: 0◦52′13.4″E) and owned by the 
Institute of AgriFood, Research and Technology (IRTA). In the studied 
orchard, the trees were trained using a fruiting wall system, planted at a 
density of 3.6 m × 1 m, with a maximum canopy height of 3.5 m.
Fig. 1a shows a top view of the study area, which consists of four 
rows of apple trees, each 105 m long and containing a total of 420 trees. 
The rows were segmented into 21 stretches of 5 m each, giving a total of 
84 stretches. Fig. 1b presents a top view of the orchard, where the 
number of apples harvested (October 5th, 2021) in each 5-metre section 
is represented by a colour gradient. The ground truth for the fruit load 
map was obtained by individually harvesting each section and counting 
the number of fruits per stretch with a commercial apple sorting line 
machine (Maf Roda Agrobotic, Montauban, France). Stretches 4, 5 and 6 
of row 2 and stretch 5 of row 4 are not coloured because the ground truth 
of these sections is not available.
The acquisition equipment included two RGB-D cameras, a ZED 2 
stereo camera (Stereolabs, San Francisco, CA, USA) and an Azure Kinect 
DK time-of-flight (ToF) camera (Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, WA, 
USA), both at a height of 162 cm from the ground, as well as an Ardu­
simple simpleRTK2B (Ardusimple Co., Ltd., Lleida, Spain) global navi­
gation satellite system (GNSS) placed at a height of 207 cm from the 
ground. Table 1 presents the main characteristics of the RGB-D cameras. 
All the sensors were controlled with a Windows operating system laptop, 
running the AK_ACQS software (Miranda et al., 2022) for the data 
acquisition. This equipment was mounted on a vertical mast boarded on 
M. Felip-Pom´es et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 255 (2026) 112330 
2 

an electric all-terrain vehicle as shown in Fig. 2.
Two sets of data were collected on different dates. The first data 
collection was carried out four weeks before harvest, on September 6th, 
2021, when apples featured a two-tone hue of pink and green (Fig. 3a), 
and the second data collection was carried out one week before harvest 
on September 28th, 2021, when apples had reached a fully red colora­
tion (Fig. 3b).
Data acquisitions were performed at three different scanning dis­
tances, placing the sensors at 1.25 m, 1.75 m, and 2.25 m from the 
longitudinal axis of the tree row. Shorter distances allow for better 
visibility and detail of the apples but limit the field of view, making it 
difficult to capture the entire canopy structure. In contrast, greater 
distances provide a more complete view of the tree but reduce the res­
olution and visibility of individual fruits. Therefore, an analysis of the 
balance between fruit detail and overall tree coverage is required. Each 
row was scanned twice, from the east and from the west side. To capture 
the data, the scanning system was driven at a constant speed of 2 km/h 
along the orchard alleyways.
2.2. Methodology pipeline
Fig. 4 presents a flow chart that outlines the complete workflow from 
data acquisition to yield map generation. The process starts with video 
acquisition using two RGB-D cameras: Azure Kinect DK and ZED 2. For 
each video frame, the system performs fruit detection and tracking, 
assigning a unique identifier (ID) to each apple across successive frames. 
Once all the frames have been processed, the output is a list of detected 
apples with their associated tracking IDs and spatial information. For 
validation purposes, this information is then processed by the stretch 
assignation module, which associates each apple with a specific stretch 
of the orchard row based on its location. This step enables comparison 
with the stretch-level harvested ground truth. With all the apples 
already assigned to their corresponding stretches, the system performs a 
fruit count per stretch. Finally, an orchard block-level yield map is 
generated, representing the fruit count of each 5-m stretch arranged 
according to its row and position along the row.
2.3. Detection and tracking
The YoloV5x (Ultralytics, 2022) convolutional neural network 
(CNN) was used in this work to detect fruits in each frame of the RGB 
video sequences captured with the Azure Kinect DK and ZED 2.
The YoloV5x architecture was initially trained on the COCO (Lin 
et al., 2014) dataset and then fine-tuned using our custom dataset. For 
the fine-tuning process, we used Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD) with 
a learning rate of 0.01, a weight decay of 0.0001, and a batch size of 4. 
All training and inference processes were conducted on a workstation 
equipped with an Intel Core i7-9800X CPU (3.8 GHz), 32 GB of RAM, 
and two NVIDIA GeForce RTX 2080 Ti GPUs (11 GB VRAM each), 
running Ubuntu 20.04.6 LTS (64-bit) with CUDA 11.1.
Fig. 1. a) Top view of the orchard showing scanned rows and stretches used to evaluate fruit counting (adapted from Gen´e-Mola et al., 2023a). rX indicates the 
number of row. sX indicates the number of stretch. b) Ground truth map of the fruits counted in each stretch.
Table 1 
Specifications of the ZED 2 and Azure Kinect RGB-D cameras.
ZED 2
Azure Kinect
Principle
Stereo vision
Time of Flight (ToF)
RGB resolution (px)
1920 × 1080
1920 × 1080
RGB field of view (◦)
110 × 70
90 × 59
Depth resolution (px)
1920 × 1080
640 × 576
Depth field of view (◦)
110 × 70
75 × 65
Depth Range (m)
0.3–20
0.5–3.86
Operating frequency (fps)
30
30
M. Felip-Pom´es et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 255 (2026) 112330 
3 

To create our custom dataset, a total of 1723 frames from stretches 4, 
5 and 6 of row 2 were annotated, with 1295 frames used for training, 
203 for validation, and 225 for testing. This dataset includes video- 
sequences at all evaluated conditions (different sensors, distances and 
dates). Using the Supervisely platform (https://supervisely.com/), 
unique apple IDs were manually assigned to the bounding boxes of all 
visible apples in these frames. The accuracy of apple counting was 
evaluated by comparing the number of fruits detected across rows 1 to 4 
with the total number of harvested fruits. To avoid data leakage between 
training and evaluation, stretches 4, 5 and 6 of row 2 were excluded 
from the fruit counting experiments. Consequently, the counting per­
formance was evaluated on different rows and stretches of the orchard, 
allowing the performance of the detection model to be assessed on un­
seen spatial regions within the same orchard.
The fruit tracking task involved a comparison of three different 
trackers: SORT (Bewley et al., 2016b), DeepSORT (Wojke et al., 2017) 
and ByteTrack (Zhang et al., 2022b). These trackers follow the tracking- 
by-detection paradigm, in which object detections obtained in each 
frame are associated over time to generate object trajectories. SORT is a 
motion-based tracker that predicts the position of existing tracks using a 
Kalman filter and associates them with new detections using the Hun­
garian algorithm. This approach is computationally efficient, but it relies 
only on object motion and spatial overlap, without considering visual 
appearance. DeepSORT builds upon SORT by integrating object 
appearance information extracted from a re-identification (Re-ID) 
network (Wojke and Bewley, 2018), which is used together with motion 
information to improve the association between detections and previous 
trajectories. This can reduce identity switches in scenarios where objects 
have distinctive visual features, although it also increases computational 
cost. Both algorithms (SORT and DeepSORT) classify the detections into 
high and low reliability based on the score provided by the object de­
tector (YOLOv5). Highly reliable detections are assigned to active tra­
jectories using a Kalman filter motion model and the Hungarian 
algorithm applied on distance measurements. Alternatively, ByteTrack 
introduces an improvement over SORT and DeepSORT by incorporating 
a second association step. This additional step helps the algorithm 
associate low-confidence detections with unassigned trajectories, 
maximizing the algorithm's robustness in scenarios where objects are 
partially. The performance of these trackers was evaluated on nine video 
sequences containing a total of 1723 video frames from stetches 5 and 6 
of row number 2 and recorded under the different experimental condi­
tions described above.
2.4. Stretch-based assignment for validation and fruit counting
Since the ground truth yield map was generated by individually 
harvesting and counting fruits within predefined 5-meter stretches 
(Section 2.1), a stretch-level comparison was required to quantitatively 
evaluate the accuracy of the proposed counting system. Therefore, for 
validation purposes, each detected apple in the video sequences was 
assigned to its corresponding stretch to compare predicted and actual 
fruit counts at the same spatial resolution.
To visually identify the boundaries between stretches in the video 
frames, a piece of red and white tape was placed at each stretch tran­
sition. These markers, referred to as change marks, indicate the precise 
locations where the transition from one stretch to another occurs. It is to 
be noted that the use of physical markers and the manual annotation of 
change frames were implemented exclusively to ensure an accurate 
alignment between video-based detections and the harvested stretch- 
level ground truth. This step is not required for the operational 
deployment of the proposed fruit counting system. In commercial ap­
plications, fruit load is typically estimated continuously along the row or 
aggregated at row/orchard level, without predefined 5-meter 
segmentation.
Fig. 5 illustrates three representative frames in which a change mark 
is visible. In each image, the change mark is highlighted with a vertical 
green line. Fig. 5a shows to the first frame in which the change mark 
between stretches 1 and 2 of row 2 becomes visible. Fig. 5b shows the 
frame in which the same change mark is aligned with the centre of the 
image (considered the reference change frame). Finally, Fig. 5c shows the 
last frame in which the change mark is still visible.
All the images between the first (Fig. 5a) and the last (Fig. 5c) in 
which the change mark appears are crucial for correctly assigning each 
apple to its corresponding stretch. These transitional frames may contain 
apples belonging to two adjacent stretches, so it is essential to determine 
on which side of the change mark each detected apple is located in order 
to assign it correctly.
The following algorithms were designed to support the stretch-level 
validation process and are not intrinsic components of the detection and 
tracking pipeline. Algorithm 1 presents the pseudocode that explains the 
stretch assignment method. The main objective is to identify the range of 
frames in which the change mark is visible in the image and its position. 
The frames where each change mark was aligned with the centre of the 
image (e.g. Fig. 5b) were manually identified and annotated. These 
reference frames, termed change frames, were provided as prior infor­
mation to the algorithm.
Given each stretch change frame (Fig. 5b), the algorithm estimates 
the position of the change mark across all frames where it is visible (from 
Fig. 5a to Fig. 5c). This is achieved by estimating the frame-by-frame 
image motion, expressed in pixels per frame. To do this, the 
Fig. 2. Orchard scanning equipment.
M. Felip-Pom´es et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 255 (2026) 112330 
4 

Fig. 3. Apple tree images acquired at three different scanning distances: a) four weeks before harvest; b) one week before harvest.
Fig. 4. Flow chart from video capture to orchard block-level yield map.
M. Felip-Pom´es et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 255 (2026) 112330 
5 

displacement of all detected apples between consecutive frames is 
computed, and the average pixel displacement is used as an estimate of 
the relative frame speed.
This average motion is then used to propagate the position of the 
change mark forward and backward in the sequence, updating its 
location in subsequent frames until the change mark is no longer visible 
in the field of view. This iterative procedure allows for accurate locali­
zation of the stretch boundary in all relevant frames, enabling the cor­
rect assignment of each detected apple to its corresponding stretch.
Algorithm 1 Compute Change Frames
1
procedure ComputeChangeFrames(apple_data, change_frame_data)
2
adjusted_change_frame ← [],
3
for each change_frame in change_frame_data do
4
apples_in_change ← []
5
for each apple in apple_data do
6
if apple.framenumber is within change_frame then
7
Append apple to apples_in_change
8
end if
9
end for
10
total_velocity, count ← 0, 0
11
for each apple in apples_in_change do
12
if previous and current frame data available for apple then
13
delta_position ← current_position – previous_position
14
delta_frame ← current_frame – previous_frame
15
velocity ← delta_position/delta_frame
16
total_velocity ← total_velocity + velocity
17
count ← count + 1
18
end if
19
end for
20
mean_velocity ← if count > 0 then total_velocity/count else 0
21
adjusted_start ← change_frame.start
22
adjusted_start ← adjusted_start – (mean_velocity × time_backward)
23
adjusted_end ← change_frame.end
24
adjusted_end ← adjusted_end +(mean_velocity × time_forward)
25
adjusted_frame ← (adjusted_start, adjusted_end)
26
Append adjusted_frame to adjusted_change_frames
27
end for
28
end procedure
Algorithm 2 describes the second step of the stretch assignment method. 
In the range of frames where a stretch change mark is visible (as 
determined in Algorithm 1), the position of each apple is analysed 
relative to the estimated position of the change mark. For each apple 
tracked in these frames, it is recorded whether it appears on the left or 
right side.
Since the apple is tracked along different frames, each apple is then 
assigned to the stretch where it appears most frequently across these 
frames. This majority-vote strategy addresses the issue of inconsistent 
apple positions caused by perspective distortion—where an apple near 
the change mark might appear on different sides of the change mark in 
consecutive frames.
Finally, if an apple is not visible in any of the frames where a change 
mark is detected, it is directly assigned to the stretch in which it is 
observed throughout the video.
Algorithm 2 Assign Apple to Stretch
1
procedure AssignAppleToStretch(apple_data, adjusted_change_frames, 
apple_assignments)
2
for each apple in apple_data do
3
left_count, right_count ← 0, 0
4
for each adjusted_change_frame in adjusted_change_frames do
5
if apple.last_frame_number is in adjusted_change_frame then
6
if apple.position is left of change_frame then
7
left_count ← left_count + 1
8
else
9
right_count ← right_count + 1
10
end if
11
end if
12
end for
13
final_stretch ← ‘LEFT’ if left_count > right_count else ‘RIGHT’
14
Append (apple, final_stretch) to apple_assignments
15
end for
16
return apple_assignments
17
end procedure
Fig. 5. Set of frames in which the change mark (highlighted with a green dashed vertical line) is seen: a) initial appearance of the change mark; b) frame where the 
change mark is aligned with the image center (yellow dashed window provides a zoom-in); c) final frame where the change mark is visible.
M. Felip-Pom´es et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 255 (2026) 112330 
6 

Once all detected apples were assigned to their corresponding stretches 
(as described in Algorithms 1 and 2), a linear regression model was used 
to correct systematic observation biases in the raw fruit counts. In or­
chard environments, the number of fruits detected in video sequences 
does not necessarily correspond to the true number of fruits present on 
the trees due to factors such as occlusions, fruits visible from both sides 
of the row, and tracking inconsistencies (e.g., broken tracks or identity 
switches). Therefore, the regression model relates the number of tracked 
fruits to the actual number of harvested apples, enabling a more reliable 
estimation of fruit load at the stretch level. It should be noted that the 
detections obtained from the east and west scans were processed inde­
pendently, and no object-level fusion or cross-view matching was per­
formed to explicitly identify the same fruit observed from both sides of 
the row. Consequently, fruits visible from both viewpoints may be 
counted twice in the intermediate observations. In the proposed 
framework, these duplicate observations are not explicitly removed at 
the instance level but are statistically compensated through the regres­
sion model applied.
To ensure the robustness of the estimation and to prevent the linear 
model from being trained with the same data used for its evaluation, the 
cross-validation procedure explained in Gen´e-Mola et al. (2023a) was 
applied. With this procedure the linear model was evaluated using a 
leave-one-row-out cross-validation strategy, where the model for each 
row was trained using data from the remaining rows. Then, performance 
metrics were calculated for each row and averaged to obtain robust 
estimations of the model performance. This approach ensures that the 
resulting metrics are not biased by the specific characteristics of indi­
vidual rows.
It should be noted that this leave-one-row-out cross-validation as­
sesses the generalization of the regression model across rows within the 
studied orchard, but not its transferability to other orchards. The fitted 
coefficients should therefore be regarded as calibration parameters 
specific to the present orchard and acquisition setup (sensor, scanning 
distance, date and side). When transferring the system to a new orchard 
or to different acquisition conditions, re-calibration of the regression 
model would be required, which in practice could be performed by 
manually counting the fruits of a reduced number of reference stretches 
or trees at harvest.
2.5. Evaluation metrics
The evaluation of fruit detection performance is based on several 
metrics: Precision (P), Recall (R), F1-score (F1) and mean average Pre­
cision (mAP). P is the ratio of true positives (correct detections) to the 
total number of detections made by the model. R represents the per­
centage of correctly detected fruits compared to the total number of 
annotated fruits in the ground truth. F1 is the harmonic mean between P 
and R, it provides a balance between both metrics. mAP is determined by 
calculating the area under the Precision-Recall (P-R) curve across 
different Intersection Over Union (IoU) thresholds.
For the evaluation of fruit tracking, several metrics are used to 
measure the performance of the tracker: Multiple Object Tracking Ac­
curacy (MOTA), Identification F1 (IDF1) and Higher Order Tracking 
Accuracy (HOTA). Each of these metrics evaluates different aspects of 
tracking, allowing for a more complete view of the algorithm's effec­
tiveness. MOTA takes into account three types of errors: false positives, 
false negatives and identity changes, and provides an overall evaluation 
of the tracker's accuracy based on these cumulative errors. IDF1 is the 
ratio of correctly identified detections over the average of the total 
number of objects in the ground truth and the detections made by the 
model (Ristani et al., 2016). HOTA extends the MOTA concept by 
integrating multiple evaluation factors. It breaks down the performance 
of the tracker into different levels, measuring recall and accuracy in 
detecting and associating identities, and accuracy in locating objects 
(Luiten et al., 2021).
The performance of the overall fruit counting system is evaluated in 
terms of mean absolute error (MAE), mean absolute percentage error 
(MAPE), root mean square error (RMSE) and the coefficient of deter­
mination (R2). The MAE measures the average magnitude of errors be­
tween the predicted and actual fruit counts by stretch. MAPE quantifies 
the error as a percentage of the actual values. The RMSE weighs larger 
errors more heavily, highlighting the impact of significant deviations 
between predictions and actual values. The R2 determines the quality of 
the model to replicate the results, and the proportion of variation in the 
results that can be explained by the model.
For clarity and reproducibility, Table 2 summarizes the mathemat­
ical formulation of all evaluation metrics used in this study. Where TP, 
FP and FN denote true positives, false positives and false negatives, 
respectively; AP is the area under the Precision–Recall curve, computed 
in practice using a discrete approximation over recall levels; N is the 
number of classes (N = 1 in this study); IDSW represents identity 
switches; GT is the total number of ground-truth objects; IDTP, IDFP and 
IDFN denote true positive, false positive and false negative identity as­
sociations; Det.A and Ass. A correspond to detection and association 
accuracy components of HOTA; yi and ̂yi are the observed and predicted 
fruit counts for stretch i, y is the mean observed value, and n is the 
number of evaluated stretches.
3. Results
3.1. Fruit detection and tracking
The YOLOv5x object detection architecture was trained for a total of 
273 epochs. The validation loss achieved its minimum value at this 
stage, indicating that the network had converged optimally. In terms of 
performance, the network achieved an F1-score of 0.834 and a 
mAP@0.5 of 0.871, both computed using a Intersection over Union 
(IoU) threshold of 0.50. These values reflect the high capability of the 
architecture to correctly detect and classify objects within the evaluated 
dataset and are in accordance with the cutting-edge results in fruit 
detection (Koirala et al., 2019; Zhu et al., 2024).
Table 3 shows a detailed comparison of the three evaluated tracking 
algorithms. These results are obtained from evaluating the three algo­
rithms on validation data corresponding to stretches 5 and 6 of row 
Table 2 
Mathematical formulation of the evaluation metrics used for detection, tracking 
and counting performance assessment.
Task
Metric
Formula
Detection
Precision (P)
TP
TP + FP
Recall (R)
TP
TP + FN
F1-score (F1)
2 × P × R
P + R
Average Precission (AP)
∫1
0 P(R)dR
mean Average Precision (mAP)
1
N
∑N
i=1APi
Tracking
MOTA
1 −FN + FP + IDSW
GT
IDF1
2 × IDTP
2 × IDTP + IDFP + IDFN
HOTA̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅
Det.A × Ass.A
√
Counting
MAE
1
n
∑n
i=1⃒⃒yi −̂ yi⃒⃒
MAPE
100
n
∑n
i=1⃒⃒⃒⃒
yi −̂ yi
yi⃒⃒⃒⃒
RMSE̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅
1
n
∑n
i=1
(
yi −̂ yi
)2
√
R2
1 −
∑(
yi −̂ yi
)2
∑(
yi −y
)2
Note: TP = true positives; FP = false positives; FN = false negatives; 
IDSW = identity switches; IDTP = identity true positives; IDFP = identity false 
positives; IDFN = identity false negatives; GT = ground-truth; Det.A = detection 
accuracy; Ass.A = association accuracy.
M. Felip-Pom´es et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 255 (2026) 112330 
7 

number 2. For each metric, the highest performance score is highlighted 
in bold. ByteTrack achieved a MOTA score of 0.6817, demonstrating an 
advantage over SORT (0.6401) and DeepSORT (0.5735). A similar trend 
is seen in the IDF1 metric, where ByteTrack performed better than SORT 
and DeepSORT, indicating that it is better maintaining the identity of the 
tracked objects across frames. HOTA scores, which balance detection 
and association accuracy, showed more closely results, ByteTrack ach­
ieved a higher score of 0.6894 compared to SORT's 0.6804 and Deep­
SORT's 0.6824. The accuracy of the object detector has a major impact 
on the performance of these tracking algorithms. Therefore, the 
robustness and accuracy of the object detector are critical prerequisites 
for achieving high quality tracking results.
In terms of computational efficiency, both SORT and ByteTrack 
showed comparable processing times per image, with averages of 
15.3 ms and 15.4 ms, respectively. Conversely, DeepSORT recorded a 
much higher average processing time of 128.0 ms per image. This in­
crease in the processing time is probably due to the computational 
overhead associated with the feature extraction and the matching pro­
cesses in its Re-ID network.
According to these findings, ByteTrack stands out as the most 
effective tracking methodology among the three evaluated, under the 
experimental conditions of this study. Its higher MOTA, IDF1, and HOTA 
values indicate not only better overall tracking accuracy, also improved 
identity preservation and association quality. This improvement can be 
attributed to ByteTrack’s two-stage association strategy, in which high- 
confidence detections are first matched to existing tracks and lower- 
confidence detections are subsequently used to recover unmatched 
trajectories. In the context of apple fruit tracking, this strategy is 
particularly relevant because valid fruit detections may receive lower 
confidence scores due to partial occlusions, changes in viewing angle or 
illumination variability. By exploiting these lower-confidence detections 
instead of directly discarding them, ByteTrack can reduce missed de­
tections and fragmented trajectories.
Table 3 
Comparison of tracking performance for SORT, DeepSORT, and ByteTrack al­
gorithms in terms of MOTA, IDF1, HOTA, and execution time.
Tracker
MOTA
IDF1
HOTA
Time [ms/img]
SORT
0.6401
0.8091
0.6804
15.3
DeepSORT
0.5735
0.7646
0.6824
128.0
ByteTrack
0.6817
0.8369
0.6894
15.4
Fig. 6. Apple detection at three different scanning distances with two Sensors on day 28/09: a) Azure Kinect DK; b) ZED 2.
M. Felip-Pom´es et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 255 (2026) 112330 
8 

3.2. ZED 2 vs Azure Kinect at different scanning distances and at different 
dates
Fig. 6 provides a qualitative comparison of apple detection results 
under different scanning configurations, including variations in RGB-D 
sensor (ZED 2 vs Azure Kinect) and scanning distance (1.25 m, 
1.75 m, and 2.25 m). The figure shows that while apples appear more 
detailed and with higher resolution at closer distances, the overall 
detection performance remains relatively consistent across the different 
distances. This suggests that despite the reduced visual resolution at 
longer distances, the YOLOv5x-based detection model maintains a 
robust detection capability. Additionally, the Azure Kinect sensor shows 
more consistent performance across varying conditions, which supports 
the quantitative results presented in the next sections.
Fig. 7 shows the relationship between the raw fruit counts obtained 
from the tracking system and the number of harvested apples for both 
sensors. Each point corresponds to a five-tree stretch, comparing the 
number of unique fruit IDs observed in the video sequences with the 
ground-truth fruit count obtained during harvest.
A clear positive correlation can be observed between the raw counts 
and the harvested fruit counts for both sensors (Azure Kinect: 
R2 = 0.702; ZED 2: R2 = 0.744). This indicates that the video-based 
observations capture the spatial variability of fruit load across the or­
chard, even before applying the regression-based correction described in 
Section 2.4.
From this point onward, all reported fruit counting results corre­
spond to the predictions obtained after applying the regression-based 
bias correction described in Section 2.4.
Table 4 presents the results obtained when evaluating the fruit 
counting accuracy with the Azure Kinect and the ZED 2 sensors under 
different experimental conditions, including the date of the data 
acquisition and the distance between the sensor and the row of trees.
The results for the Azure Kinect sensor show that the highest fruit 
count accuracy is obtained when the sensor is placed at 225 cm from the 
row of trees. In this configuration, the MAPE remains below 8 % on both 
acquisition dates, suggesting a low percentage error relative to the other 
distances. The RMSE values for this distance are the lowest observed for 
both dates, indicating a lower dispersion of counting errors. Also, MAE 
for this distance is the lowest, suggesting a low margin of error relative 
to the lower distances. In comparison, when reducing the sensor dis­
tance to 125 cm, the MAPE increases, exceeding 10 %. A similar 
behaviour is observed for MAE and RMSE, with errors increasing as we 
get closer, especially at distances of 125 cm, relative to 225 cm. These 
results indicate that the accuracy of the Azure Kinect sensor is more 
sensitive to the distance of acquisition than to the date of data collection. 
In addition, having images with a lower FoV could be affecting the 
tracking by generating more tracklets.
For the ZED 2 sensor, the highest fruit count accuracy is also ob­
tained when the sensor is placed at a distance of 225 cm from the row of 
trees. However, it is observed that in this case, the acquisition date factor 
has a direct effect on the accuracy of the counting system. In the data 
obtained on 06/09, for the different distance configurations, the values 
in the three metrics are higher than those from the Azure Kinect, indi­
cating greater error and a less adequate configuration. Comparing the 
two acquisition periods for the ZED 2 sensor, the results show higher 
error when the count is done 4 weeks before harvest. This behaviour is 
also observed with the Azure Kinect sensor, although to a lesser extent. 
In the best distance configuration, at 225 cm, all three metrics decrease, 
achieving an improvement in MAPE of 2.53 %, indicating a lower 
dispersion in the count.
Fig. 8 shows graphically the value of the determination coefficient 
Fig. 7. Relationship between harvested apples (ground truth) and the raw fruit counts obtained using the load estimation pipeline; Azure Kinect (left) and ZED 
2 (right).
Table 4 
Fruit counting accuracy with Azure Kinect and ZED 2 sensors at different 
acquisition dates and sensor-to-tree distances.
Sensor
Date
Distance 
(cm)
MAE 
(apples)
MAPE 
(%)
RMSE 
(apples)
Azure 
Kinect
06/09/ 
2021
225
35.28
7.67
46.64
175
38.33
8.24
52.37
125
47.37
10.10
62.80
28/09/ 
2021
225
35.07
7.48
46.98
175
36.97
7.69
50.40
125
46.68
10.00
61.90
ZED 2
06/09/ 
2021
225
42.98
9.44
57.86
175
46.51
10.00
61.85
125
52.76
11.82
70.21
28/09/ 
2021
225
31.71
6.91
43.04
175
36.76
7.71
50.10
125
43.42
9.29
55.46
M. Felip-Pom´es et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 255 (2026) 112330 
9 

(R2) in the different configurations evaluated. The R2 value is obtained 
by comparing the results of the system-estimated count with the ground 
truth. It can be seen that between the two acquisition dates, for the 
Azure Kinect, the value of R2 does not vary too much for the different 
scanning distances. When the sensor is placed at 225 cm, the value of R2 
is 0.686 on 06/09 and 0.682 on 28/09. However, in the results obtained 
Fig. 8. Scanning performance by distance, comparison between ZED 2 and Kinect Azure camera.
Fig. 9. Comparison of the dispersion graph and regression lines in three different situations, all them at 225 cm from the sensor with respect to the axis of the row of 
trees: a) Azure Kinect at two different dates; b) ZED 2 at two different dates; c) one week before the harvest, ZED 2 and Azure Kinect. Confidence and prediction bands 
are represented by dotted lines.
M. Felip-Pom´es et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 255 (2026) 112330 
10 

by the ZED 2 sensor there is a notable difference in the value of R2 at the 
different acquisition dates. When the sensor is placed at 225 cm, R2 
values of 0.519 and 0.733, respectively, are obtained. This indicates a 
higher predictive capability when the data is captured on 28/09, less 
error as the harvest date is closer. It has been proved that the two sensors 
are affected by the variable ‘distance’, since they achieve a higher per­
formance at a scanning distance of 225 cm compared to shorter dis­
tances. Therefore, it is established that for the following results only 
those obtained at a distance of 225 cm will be analysed.
Fig. 9 compares the regression lines between the actual number of 
fruits harvested and the number of fruits predicted with both sensors 
(Azure Kinect and ZED 2) and at different dates. Each of the graphs 
includes both confidence bands and prediction bands. The confidence 
band represents the uncertainty in the estimation of the mean value for 
different values of the predictor variable. On the other hand, the 
prediction band represents the uncertainty in the prediction of a new 
value for different values of the predictor variable.
Fig. 9a shows the results obtained with the Azure Kinect sensor at a 
distance of 225 cm, with the predictions for the scan conducted four 
weeks before harvest shown in light blue, and for the scan conducted 
one week before harvest shown in dark blue. The statistical analysis 
confirms that the two regression models are not significantly different, 
in fact, in the graph, the lines of the two models compared overlap. On 
the other hand, the uncertainty of both models is very similar, as the 
confidence bands (narrow) and the prediction bands (wide) are also 
practically overlapping, in addition to achieving a very close R2 value 
between them. This indicates that the Azure Kinect sensor shows a 
certain temporal stability, making the predictive capability of the system 
practically unchanged whether the data is captured 4 weeks before 
harvest or 1 week before.
Fig. 10. Comparison of the distribution of predicted and actual values with their corresponding orchard block-level yield maps: a) ground truth; b) predictions with 
the Azure Kinect sensor; c) predictions with the ZED 2 sensor.
M. Felip-Pom´es et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 255 (2026) 112330 
11 

Fig. 9b presents the results from the ZED 2 sensor at a distance of 
225 cm, where predictions from the scan taken four weeks before the 
harvest are displayed in orange, and predictions from the scan one week 
before the harvest are displayed in red. Although the regression models 
are not statistically different as the lines are practically overlapping, the 
uncertainty on the predictions is not the same. Both the confidence and 
prediction bands scanned one week before the harvest (in red) are 
narrower than those in orange, also achieving a better R2. This indicates 
that with the ZED 2 sensor there is some temporal instability, with the 
predictions made with the data set acquired one week before the harvest 
being more reliable, which puts this sensor at a disadvantage compared 
to the Azure Kinect.
The third graph (Fig. 9c) compares Azure Kinect and ZED 2 with the 
data obtained at a distance of 225 cm one week before the harvest. In 
this case the two models are not statistically different, moreover, the 
uncertainty of their predictions is very similar, although the R2 value is a 
little better with ZED 2, which explains why the red prediction bands are 
a little narrower.
Fig. 10 provides a comparison between the distribution of the har­
vested and predicted fruit counts and their corresponding orchard block- 
level yield maps.
The histogram in Fig. 10a shows the distribution of the harvested 
apples. A concentration of the apples is observed in the range 400 to 
500, with a mean close to 450 apples. This suggests that most areas of 
the plantation have a similar density of apples.
Fig. 10b shows the distribution of the predicted data obtained with 
the Azure Kinect sensor at a distance of 225 cm, scanned one week 
before harvest. It presents a mean number of apples close to that of the 
ground truth, but shows a larger scatter, indicating that the model 
predicts values over a wider range. This is reflected in the outliers pre­
sent in the boxplot. The corresponding orchard block-level yield map 
shows a similar spatial distribution to the ground truth, although with 
some discrepancies.
Fig. 10c illustrates the distribution of the predicted data obtained 
with the ZED 2 sensor at a distance of 225 cm, scanned one week before 
harvest. It has a slightly higher mean than the groundtruth, and the 
scatter is similar to that of the real data. As in Fig. 10b, the orchard 
block-level yield map shows a similar spatial distribution to the ground 
truth, although with some discrepancies. In particular, the highest- 
density regions are underrepresented, especially in Fig. 10c, where 
areas corresponding to the highest fruit load are less frequent than in the 
ground truth map. This suggests that the system captures the general 
spatial trend of fruit load, but tends to smooth local high-density peaks.
The results obtained by the two sensors are very similar, as both 
show to be consistent in the distribution of the load along the orchard. 
With the results analysed, it is observed that the ZED 2 sensor is less 
robust than the Azure Kinect, as it is affected by more variables, such as 
the scanning distance and the date of data acquisition. Given this con­
dition, it is established that for the following results, only those captured 
with the Azure Kinect at 225 cm will be analysed.
3.3. Scanning 1 side vs scanning 2 sides (Kinect data – distance 225 cm)
To evaluate the influence of the scanning side (East, West or both) 
and data acquisition date on the system counting predictions, in Table 5, 
an Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) analysis has been performed.
For the MAE, MAPE, and R2 metrics, there are no statistically sig­
nificant differences for any of the factors evaluated (‘Date’ and ‘Side’), 
nor for their interaction, as all p-values are greater than 0.05. These 
results suggest that neither the timing of the data acquisition (four weeks 
before harvest or one week before) nor the side of the scan significantly 
influenced MAE, MAPE, or R2 under the evaluated conditions.
In contrast, for the RMSE metric, the 'Side' factor showed a signifi­
cant effect, with a p-value of 0.024. This indicates that the effect of 
scanning side was mainly reflected in the magnitude of larger prediction 
errors, rather than in a consistent improvement across all evaluation 
metrics.
The boxplot in the Fig. 11 shows the distribution of RMSE values for 
the three scanning sides: Both, East, and West.
When evaluating the boxplot ‘A’, obtained from scanning both sides 
of the row, the distribution is relatively narrow, indicating a consistent 
performance with low variability in the RMSE values. The boxplot ‘A’ 
(All sides) shows a higher variability compared to the ‘E’ (East side) 
configuration, with a more dispersed range of RMSE values. The dis­
tribution for the ‘W’ (West side) shows the highest variability and has 
the most pronounced dispersion of the data.
The results indicate that scanning the row from both sides signifi­
cantly reduced RMSE (p = 0.0249). However, since no significant dif­
ferences were observed for MAE, MAPE, or R2, this effect should be 
interpreted as a reduction in larger prediction errors or error variability, 
Table 5 
Summary of ANOVA results for MAE, MAPE and R2.
Metric
Source
Number of parameters
Degrees of freedom
Sum of squares
F ratio
Prob > F
MAE(apples)
Date
1
1
209.3
2.321
0.145
Side
2
2
586.7
3.253
0.062
Date*Side
2
2
96.3
0.534
0.595
MAPE(%)
Date
1
1
0.0014
2.425
0.136
Side
2
2
0.0032
2.870
0.082
Date*Side
2
2
0.0005
0.460
0.638
RMSE(apples)
Date
1
1
179.9
2.034
0.170
Side
2
2
807.9
4.566
0.024*
Date*Side
2
2
108.8
0.615
0.551
R2
Date
1
1
0.0049
0.121
0.731
Side
2
2
0.0184
0.229
0.797
Date*Side
2
2
0.0085
0.105
0.900
Fig. 11. RMSE distribution for each measurement side: Both (A), East (E) and 
West (W).
M. Felip-Pom´es et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 255 (2026) 112330 
12 

rather than as a comprehensive improvement across all statistical in­
dicators. The adjusted RMSE (least squares mean) for the dual-side 
configuration was 46.73 apples, compared to 59.36 and 58.69 apples 
when scanning only from the west or east sides, respectively.
4. Discussion
4.1. Detection and tracking method selection
The developed counting system showed to be consistent in count and 
load distribution along the orchard. However, variability in the results 
was observed due to multiple factors, including tracker algorithm, 
sensor type, scanning date, distance, and the scanned side of the row.
The performance of three state-of-the-art tracking methods, SORT, 
DeepSORT, and ByteTrack, was compared for fruit counting in recorded 
videos. ByteTrack demonstrated higher scores in terms of MOTA, IDF1, 
and HOTA values, while maintaining a processing time comparable to 
SORT (Gen´e-Mola et al., 2023a; Matos et al., 2024). These results can be 
explained by ByteTrack’s two-stage association strategy, which uses 
lower-confidence detections to recover unmatched trajectories and 
reduce missed detections and track fragmentation. This is particularly 
relevant in orchard images, where fruit detections can be affected by 
partial occlusions, viewpoint changes, and variable illumination.
In contrast, the appearance features employed by the DeepSORT 
algorithm did not improve fruit tracking (Zhang et al., 2024). This may 
be due to the inherent similarity in appearance among apples, which 
limits the effectiveness of feature-based Re-ID approaches for dis­
tinguishing individual fruits. In addition, DeepSORT required substan­
tially higher processing time per image, averaging 128.0 ms compared 
with 15.3 ms for SORT and 15.4 ms for ByteTrack.
The detection and tracking components adopted in this study, 
YOLOv5 and ByteTrack, were state-of-the-art methods when the project 
began in 2022. Since then, newer architectures have reported improved 
results on general-purpose benchmarks, including recent iterations of 
the YOLO family such as YOLO26 (Ultralytics, 2026), and trackers that 
extend the tracking-by-detection paradigm with appearance-based re- 
identification present (Re-ID) and camera motion compensation (CMC), 
such as BoT-SORT (Aharon et al., 2022) and StrongSORT (Du et al., 
2023). As a complementary check on whether these advances would 
benefit the task, a YOLO26 model was fine-tuned on the same annotated 
dataset used to train YOLOv5 and evaluated under the same conditions. 
No advantage was observed: performance was marginally lower than 
YOLOv5 (F1: 0.819 vs. 0.834; mAP@0.5: 0.865 vs. 0.871), indicating 
that gains reported for newer YOLO iterations on general-purpose 
benchmarks do not necessarily transfer to small, densely clustered and 
visually homogeneous fruit such as apples. A possible explanation is 
that, for this single-class task with a comparatively modest fine-tuning 
dataset, the remaining detection error is dominated by irreducible fac­
tors such as heavy occlusion and ambiguous fruit boundaries rather than 
by detector capacity, although a detailed analysis of this behaviour was 
beyond the scope of this study.
Regarding tracking, BoT-SORT and StrongSORT were additionally 
evaluated under the same conditions. BoT-SORT achieved the best 
tracking metrics, improving MOTA by approximately 4 %, IDF1 by 3 % 
and HOTA by 6 % with respect to ByteTrack. This gain is mainly 
attributable to its camera motion compensation, which corrects the 
Kalman filter prediction for the displacement of the vehicle-mounted 
sensor, but it came at approximately five times the processing time 
per image. StrongSORT, in contrast, did not outperform ByteTrack 
despite a substantially higher computational cost, suggesting that 
appearance-based Re-ID contributes little for objects as small and visu­
ally similar as apples, consistent with the DeepSORT results discussed 
above. Considering the current trend in precision agriculture towards 
real-time processing on edge devices, and that at the moderate, constant 
scanning speed used in this study trajectory fragmentation was not a 
practical concern, ByteTrack was considered to offer the best 
accuracy–efficiency trade-off and was retained for the counting pipeline. 
More broadly, the contribution of this work should be understood not as 
an algorithmic innovation, but as a systematic evaluation of an MOT- 
based fruit counting pipeline, validated against harvest-level ground 
truth, under a wide range of realistic acquisition conditions.
4.2. Effect of acquisition conditions
The fruit counting system was evaluated at different conditions. Our 
analysis showed that scanning distance plays a key role in accuracy, with 
both Azure Kinect and ZED 2 showing higher errors when scanning at 
closer distances. This effect is probably due to a reduced field of view 
(FoV), which limits the visibility of the upper and lower sections of the 
trees, resulting in undetected fruits and a higher number of tracklets in 
the tracking algorithm. In this context, the best results were obtained at 
225 cm, as this distance offered an optimal trade-off between capturing 
the full tree canopy and maintaining sufficient resolution to clearly 
identify individual apples. At this range, the entire structure was visible 
within the field of view, reducing missed detections. However, this 
result is influenced by the tree architecture present in the studied or­
chard. In this case, the trees were trained using a fruiting wall system, 
with a maximum canopy height of 3.5 m, which favours a relatively 
continuous and planar canopy structure. For orchards with different 
training systems, the optimal sensor distance may differ, this should be 
considered when interpreting the results.
Evaluating the influence of scanning date, Azure Kinect maintained 
stable results across both different dates (R2 ≈0.68; MAPE ≈7.5–7.7 % 
at 225 cm), while ZED 2 has shown a significant improvement closer to 
harvest (R2 increasing from 0.519 to 0.733; MAPE decreasing from 
9.44 % to 6.91 %). This discordance seems to be related to changes in 
fruit colour, as apples turned from green to red closer to harvest, 
increasing colour contrast with the canopy. Although the overall 
counting results reflect the combined effects of detection, tracking, and 
canopy visibility, the temporal variation observed for the ZED 2 suggests 
that part of the error originates from detection sensitivity to visual 
conditions rather than from tracking instability or geometric factors 
alone. In addition, differences between sensors may also contribute to 
the observed variability. The Azure Kinect provides higher native image 
resolution, while the ZED 2 has a wider field of view and uses wide-angle 
optics, which may reduce the effective pixel density per fruit and 
introduce stronger geometric distortions toward the image borders. 
These factors can influence detection robustness under different acqui­
sition conditions.
The effect of scanning side was also analysed through ANOVA, re­
sults showed that scanning from one or both sides of the row had a 
statistically significant influence on the RMSE results (p = 0.024), 
whereas MAE, MAPE and R2 were not significantly affected. This pattern 
is consistent with the definition of RMSE, which disproportionately 
emphasizes large individual errors. In our dataset, the largest residuals 
were probably linked to trees affected by strong canopy occlusion or 
very high fruit load, situations in which one side tended to compensate 
for occlusions present in the other. By combining both viewpoints, these 
extreme deviations were notably reduced, while the central part of the 
error distribution remained largely unchanged. Consequently, RMSE 
detected a clear improvement when both sides were used, indicating 
that dual‑side scanning is particularly effective in mitigating the most 
severe occlusion‑related deviations. From a practical perspective, 
scanning only one side may be enough for obtaining a representative 
yield estimate, while scanning both sides mainly contributes to reducing 
the largest, occlusion-related prediction errors, rather than systemati­
cally improving all accuracy metrics. Depending on the intended use, 
growers may either scan a representative row from both sides or conduct 
full orchard scans accordingly. It should be noted that no cross-view 
identity matching or de-duplication between east and west scans was 
implemented, therefore, the improvement observed in dual-side con­
figurations is attributed to complementary canopy visibility.
M. Felip-Pom´es et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 255 (2026) 112330 
13 

4.3. Robustness of the counting pipeline
Tracking errors such as missed detections, identity switches, or 
fragmented tracks may introduce local inconsistencies in the interme­
diate fruit trajectories used by the stretch assignment algorithm. How­
ever, the impact of these errors on the final yield estimation is partially 
mitigated by several aspects of the proposed pipeline. First, the stretch 
assignment relies on observations across multiple consecutive frames, 
and the final stretch label is determined through a majority-vote strat­
egy, reducing the influence of occasional tracking inconsistencies. Sec­
ond, fruit counts are aggregated at the stretch level (five-tree segments), 
which spatially averages local errors and limits the impact of individual 
tracking mistakes. Finally, the regression model used to estimate fruit 
load compensates for systematic observation biases caused by occlu­
sions, duplicated observations from opposite sides of the row, and 
fragmented tracks. Nevertheless, since these error sources are compen­
sated jointly, their individual contributions cannot be isolated from the 
corrected results, and a detailed analysis of how each of them (occlusion, 
duplicate observations, and tracking errors) propagates through the 
counting pipeline remains an interesting direction for future work.
Virtual counting line approaches have also been used in tracking- 
based fruit counting pipelines to reduce duplicate counts by counting 
fruits only when their trajectories cross a predefined line (Shen et al., 
2023). However, in orchard environments, fruits may be partially 
occluded when crossing the virtual line, leading to missed counts. In 
contrast, the approach adopted in this study exploits the full camera 
field of view and the complete video sequence, providing multiple op­
portunities to detect and track each fruit across consecutive frames.
It should also be noted that the raw fruit counts obtained from the 
video sequences represent a partial observation of the fruit load rather 
than a direct measurement. Due to occlusions within the canopy, the 
limited field of view of the cameras, and duplicate observations of fruits 
visible from both sides of the row, systematic differences between the 
observed and actual number of fruits are expected. Consequently, the 
raw counts should be interpreted as a proxy of fruit load rather than an 
exact count. The regression model introduced in the methodology 
therefore acts as a bias-correction step that translates these video-based 
observations into reliable yield estimates at the stretch level.
Direct numerical comparison of counting accuracy across studies 
remains challenging, as datasets are typically acquired under different 
orchard structures and acquisition conditions. Moreover, in many pre­
viously reported fruit counting pipelines, the ground truth corresponds 
to fruits manually annotated in the images or videos used for evaluation. 
Very high correlations, with R2 values frequently above 0.95 and 
counting accuracies around 90 % or higher, are achieved with this 
approach (Cao et al., 2025; Gao et al., 2022; Yang et al., 2024). While 
this methodology facilitates benchmarking of detection performance, it 
does not necessarily reflect the actual number of fruits in the orchard. In 
contrast, the present fruit estimation pipeline has been assessed against 
the actual number of fruits in the orchard, through in-field manual 
counting of all fruits after harvest. This approach is more representative 
from an end-user perspective, as it provides a more realistic assessment 
of the true counting capability of the developed pipeline. Therefore, the 
results of the present work cannot be directly compared with those from 
studies evaluated against image-based ground truth.
An important strength of the proposed system lies in its evaluation 
under realistic acquisition scenarios. The experiments considered 
different sensor types, scanning distances, acquisition dates, and scan­
ning sides, allowing the robustness of the counting approach to be 
assessed under practical operational conditions rather than under a 
single fixed configuration. This experimental design provides a more 
representative understanding of the system performance in orchard 
conditions.
To assess the robustness of the proposed counting system, several 
methodological elements were incorporated. The regression models 
were evaluated using cross‑validation across orchard rows, ensuring 
that performance metrics were computed on independent data. The 
regression analysis also included confidence and prediction intervals, 
which quantify model and prediction uncertainty. In addition, an 
ANOVA was conducted to examine whether differences in performance 
across acquisition conditions were statistically significant. Although full 
independent field repetitions were not possible, the use of two acquisi­
tion dates and two scanning sides provided repeated observations under 
diverse conditions, allowing us to examine the stability of the system 
across scenarios.
4.4. Limitations and future outlook
In the present study the stretch-level validation required the manual 
annotation of reference frames and the placement of physical markers to 
align video detections with harvested ground truth. Although this 
approach ensured precise evaluation at a 5-meter resolution, it is not 
intended for large-scale commercial deployment. In practical applica­
tions, fruit counting systems typically generate continuous yield esti­
mates or aggregate counts at row or orchard scale, eliminating the need 
for predefined stretch segmentation or manual frame annotation. Future 
work could explore fully automated geo-referenced mapping strategies 
integrating GNSS and odometry for large-scale deployment.
At the same time, some limitations should be acknowledged. One 
limitation of this study is that all experiments were conducted within a 
single orchard with relatively homogeneous tree architecture, planting 
density, and management practices. Although the detection model was 
trained using annotated frames from a limited section of one row and 
evaluated across different rows of the orchard, demonstrating general­
ization within the same orchard, the variability between rows is likely 
smaller than the variability that may occur across different orchards. 
Therefore, further studies evaluating the proposed system under a wider 
range of orchard conditions, including different canopy structures, 
illumination environments, varieties, and fruit densities, would be 
valuable to fully assess the robustness and generalization capability of 
the detection model.
Finally, the increasing accessibility of these devices in recent years 
may soon enable many growers to acquire and install them on their 
tractors. This would allow data collection during each treatment appli­
cation, from both sides of the crop row and at regular intervals. Such 
continuous monitoring would progressively enhance data accuracy and 
provide insights into crop development over time, equipping farmers 
with more detailed information to optimize management practices and 
anticipate potential issues.
5. Conclusions
This work presents the development of a computer vision system for 
fruit counting and load estimation, with a particular focus on evaluating 
its performance under varying scanning conditions. The system was 
tested in an experimental apple orchard to assess its behaviour under 
different acquisition configurations. Data was recorded using two RGB- 
D sensors (Azure Kinect DK and ZED 2) at three different distances 
(125 cm, 175 cm, and 225 cm). The orchard rows were scanned from 
both sides on two different dates (four weeks and one week prior to 
harvest). The developed system includes several stages: fruit detection, 
fruit tracking, assignment of each fruit to its corresponding stretch or 
region of the orchard, and the generation of an orchard block-level yield 
map. Within the evaluated experimental conditions, the Azure Kinect 
sensor showed more stable performance than the ZED 2, as it achieves 
more similar results on both dates. Furthermore, increasing the scanning 
distance up to 225 cm improved the balance between canopy visibility 
and fruit detection reliability in the studied fruiting wall orchard, 
leading to a MAPE of 6.91 % and an R2 of 0.733 under that configura­
tion. In addition, bilateral scanning improved fruit load estimation at the 
stretch level by integrating information from both sides of the canopy. 
However, this improvement was mainly reflected in RMSE, suggesting a 
M. Felip-Pom´es et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 255 (2026) 112330 
14 

reduction in larger prediction errors or error variability, rather than a 
comprehensive improvement across all evaluation metrics. Moreover, 
since east and west side scans were processed independently, without 
instance-level cross-view matching or de-duplication, this improvement 
should be interpreted as an enhancement of stretch-level yield estima­
tion rather than a direct increase in instance-level counting accuracy. 
Therefore, these findings should be interpreted in the context of the 
specific orchard architecture and acquisition setup considered in this 
study.
The results demonstrate the potential of the proposed system as a 
practical tool for improving fruit load estimation in apple orchards, it 
offers growers a more efficient and precise alternative to traditional 
manual methods. Generating detailed load maps provides growers 
objective and spatially localized information which is important for 
optimizing harvest logistics. The use of such systems can lead to increase 
the orchard profitability by improving the resource use efficiency 
compared to traditional estimation methods. Future work should vali­
date the proposed system in different orchards, canopy architectures, 
and management conditions to assess its generalization beyond the 
same-orchard conditions considered here. Multi-view fusion strategies 
based on 3D fruit localization or cross-view matching should also be 
investigated to prevent double counting. Finally, integrating fruit size 
estimation would provide information on fruit size distribution within 
the orchard.
CRediT authorship contribution statement
Marc Felip-Pom´es: Writing – review & editing, Writing – original 
draft, Visualization, Software, Methodology, Investigation, Formal 
analysis, Data curation. Jordi Gen´e-Mola: Writing – review & editing, 
Writing – original draft, Validation, Project administration, Methodol­
ogy, Investigation, Funding acquisition, Formal analysis, Data curation, 
Conceptualization. Jaume Arn´o: Writing – review & editing, Writing – 
original draft, Project administration, Methodology, Investigation, 
Funding acquisition, Formal analysis, Data curation, Conceptualization. 
Jaume Lordan: Writing – review & editing, Writing – original draft, 
Resources, Data curation. Javier Ruiz-Hidalgo: Writing – review & 
editing, Writing – original draft, Software. Josep-Ramon Morros: 
Writing – review & editing, Writing – original draft, Software. Miguel 
Arasanz-Malo: Formal analysis, Software, Validation, Writing – review 
& editing. Francesc Net-Barn´es: Software, Formal analysis, Data 
curation. Eduard Gregorio: Writing – review & editing, Writing – 
original draft, Visualization, Validation, Supervision, Resources, Project 
administration, Methodology, Investigation, Funding acquisition, 
Formal analysis, Conceptualization.
Declaration of generative AI and AI-assisted technologies in the 
writing process
During the preparation of this work the author(s) used ChatGPT-4 to 
improve readability and language. After using this tool, the author(s) 
reviewed and edited the content as needed and take(s) full responsibility 
for the content of the publication.
Declaration of competing interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial 
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence 
the work reported in this paper.
Acknowledgements
This work was partly funded by the Department of Research and 
Universities of the Generalitat de Catalunya (grants 2017, SGR 646 and 
2021 LLAV 00088), by the Spanish Ministry of Science and Innovation 
/AEI/10.13039/501100011033 / ERDF (grants RTI2018-094222-B-I00 
[PAgFRUIT project], PID2021-126648OB-I00 [PAgPROTECT project], 
PID2024-161868OB-I00 [C3DRUM project], and PID2024-156495OR- 
C31 [YIELD4CAST]), by the Spanish Ministry of Science and Innova­
tion / AEI/10.13039/501100011033 / European Union NextGeneration 
/ PRTR (grant TED2021-131871B-I00 [DIGIFRUIT project]), and by the 
Agrotecnio-IRTA Joint Projects Call 2025 (PhotonFruit project). The 
work of Jordi Gen´e-Mola was partially supported by the Spanish Min­
istry of Universities through a Margarita Salas postdoctoral grant funded 
by the European Union - NextGenerationEU.
Data availability
The code and the dataset used to evaluate the method have been 
made 
publicly 
available 
at 
https://github.com/imatge-upc/ 
VideoFruitCounting.
References
Aharon, N., Orfaig, R., Bobrovsky, B.-Z., 2022. BoT-SORT: Robust Associations Multi- 
Pedestrian Tracking.
Ariza-Sentís, M., V´elez, S., Martínez-Pe˜na, R., Baja, H., Valente, J., 2024. Object 
detection and tracking in Precision Farming: a systematic review. Comput. Electron. 
Agric. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2024.108757.
Bewley, A., Ge, Z., Ott, L., Ramos, F., Upcroft, B., 2016a. Simple online and realtime 
tracking. In: 2016 IEEE International Conference on Image Processing (ICIP). IEEE, 
pp. 3464–3468. https://doi.org/10.1109/ICIP.2016.7533003.
Bewley, A., Ge, Z., Ott, L., Ramos, F., Upcroft, B., 2016b. Simple online and realtime 
tracking. In: Proceedings - International Conference on Image Processing, ICIP. IEEE 
Computer Society, pp. 3464–3468. https://doi.org/10.1109/ICIP.2016.7533003.
Cao, D., Luo, W., Tang, R., Liu, Y., Zhao, J., Li, X., Yuan, L., 2025. Research on apple 
detection and tracking count in complex scenes based on the improved YOLOv7- 
Tiny-PDE. Agriculture 15, 483. https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture15050483.
Du, Y., Zhao, Z., Song, Y., Zhao, Y., Su, F., Gong, T., Meng, H., 2023. StrongSORT: make 
DeepSORT great again. IEEE Trans. Multimedia 25, 8725–8737. https://doi.org/ 
10.1109/TMM.2023.3240881.
Gao, F., Fang, W., Sun, X., Wu, Z., Zhao, G., Li, G., Li, R., Fu, L., Zhang, Q., 2022. A novel 
apple fruit detection and counting methodology based on deep learning and trunk 
tracking in modern orchard. Comput. Electron. Agric. 197, 107000. https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.compag.2022.107000.
Gen´e-Mola, J., Felip-Pom´es, M., Net-Barn´es, F., Morros, J.R., Miranda, J.C., Arn´o, J., 
Asín, L., Lordan, J., Ruiz-Hidalgo, J., Gregorio, E., 2023a. Video-based fruit 
detection and tracking for apple counting and mapping. In: 2023 IEEE International 
Workshop on Metrology for Agriculture and Forestry, MetroAgriFor 2023 - 
Proceedings. Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc, pp. 301–306. 
https://doi.org/10.1109/MetroAgriFor58484.2023.10424135.
Gen´e-Mola, J., Ferrer-Ferrer, M., Gregorio, E., Blok, P.M., Hemming, J., Morros, J.R., 
Rosell-Polo, J.R., Vilaplana, V., Ruiz-Hidalgo, J., 2023b. Looking behind occlusions: 
a study on amodal segmentation for robust on-tree apple fruit size estimation. 
Comput. Electron. Agric. 209. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2023.107854.
Gen´e-Mola, J., Sanz-Cortiella, R., Rosell-Polo, J.R., Escol`a, A., Gregorio, E., 2021. In-field 
apple size estimation using photogrammetry-derived 3D point clouds: comparison of 
4 different methods considering fruit occlusions. Comput. Electron. Agric. 188, 
106343. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2021.106343.
Gen´e-Mola, J., Sanz-Cortiella, R., Rosell-Polo, J.R., Morros, J.-R.-R., Ruiz-Hidalgo, J., 
Vilaplana, V., Gregorio, E., 2020. Fruit detection and 3D location using instance 
segmentation neural networks and structure-from-motion photogrammetry. Comput. 
Electron. Agric. 169. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2019.105165.
Gu, Z., He, D., Huang, J., Chen, J., Wu, X., Huang, B., Dong, T., Yang, Q., Li, H., 2024. 
Simultaneous detection of fruits and fruiting stems in mango using improved 
YOLOv8 model deployed by edge device. Comput. Electron. Agric. 227, 109512. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2024.109512.
He, L., Fang, W., Zhao, G., Wu, Z., Fu, L., Li, R., Majeed, Y., Dhupia, J., 2022. Fruit yield 
prediction and estimation in orchards: a state-of-the-art comprehensive review for 
both direct and indirect methods. Comput. Electron. Agric. https://doi.org/10.1016/ 
j.compag.2022.106812.
Kang, R., Huang, J., Zhou, X., Ren, N., Sun, S., 2024. Toward real scenery: a lightweight 
tomato growth inspection algorithm for leaf disease detection and fruit counting. 
Plant Phenomics 6, 0174. https://doi.org/10.34133/plantphenomics.0174.
Koirala, A., Walsh, K.B., Wang, Z., McCarthy, C., 2019. Deep learning – Method overview 
and review of use for fruit detection and yield estimation. Comput. Electron. Agric. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2019.04.017.
Lin, T.Y., Maire, M., Belongie, S., Hays, J., Perona, P., Ramanan, D., Doll´ar, P., Zitnick, C. 
L., 2014. Microsoft COCO: Common objects in context, in: Lecture Notes in 
Computer Science (Including Subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and 
Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics). Springer Verlag, pp. 740–755. https://doi.org/ 
10.1007/978-3-319-10602-1_48.
Luiten, J., Os̆ep, A., Dendorfer, P., Torr, P., Geiger, A., Leal-Taix´e, L., Leibe, B., 2021. 
HOTA: a higher order metric for evaluating multi-object tracking. Int. J. Comput. 
Vis. 129, 548–578. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11263-020-01375-2.
Matos, G.P., Santiago, C., Costeira, J.P., Saldanha, R.L., Morgado, E.M., 2024. Tracking 
and counting apples in orchards under intermittent occlusions and low frame rates. 
M. Felip-Pom´es et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 255 (2026) 112330 
15 

In: 2024 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition 
Workshops (CVPRW). IEEE, pp. 5413–5421. https://doi.org/10.1109/ 
CVPRW63382.2024.00550.
Miranda, J.C., Gen´e-Mola, J., Arn´o, J., Gregorio, E., 2022. AKFruitData: a dual software 
application for Azure Kinect cameras to acquire and extract informative data in yield 
tests performed in fruit orchard environments. SoftwareX 20. https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.softx.2022.101231.
Miranda, J.C., Gen´e-Mola, J., Zude-Sasse, M., Tsoulias, N., Escol`a, A., Arn´o, J., Rosell- 
Polo, J.R., Sanz-Cortiella, R., Martínez-Casasnovas, J.A., Gregorio, E., 2023. Fruit 
sizing using AI: a review of methods and challenges. Postharvest Biol. Technol. 206. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.postharvbio.2023.112587.
Qi, Z., Zhang, T., Yuan, T., Zhou, W., Zhang, W., 2025. Assessment of the tomato cluster 
yield estimation algorithms via tracking-by-detection approaches. Information 
Processing in Agriculture 12, 445–455. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
inpa.2025.02.005.
Ristani, E., Solera, F., Zou, R., Cucchiara, R., Tomasi, C., 2016. Performance measures 
and a data set for multi-target, multi-camera tracking. In: Lecture Notes in Computer 
Science (Including Subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture 
Notes in Bioinformatics). Springer Verlag, pp. 17–35. https://doi.org/10.1007/978- 
3-319-48881-3_2.
Santos, T.T., de Souza, K.X.S., Camargo Neto, J., Koenigkan, L.V., Moreira, A.S., 
Ternes, S., 2024. Multiple orange detection and tracking with 3-D fruit relocalization 
and neural-net based yield regression in commercial sweet orange orchards. Comput. 
Electron. Agric. 224, 109199. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2024.109199.
Shen, L., Su, J., He, R., Song, L., Huang, R., Fang, Y., Song, Y., Su, B., 2023. Real-time 
tracking and counting of grape clusters in the field based on channel pruning with 
YOLOv5s. Comput. Electron. Agric. 206, 107662. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
compag.2023.107662.
Tang, Y., Qiu, J., Zhang, Y., Wu, D., Cao, Y., Zhao, K., Zhu, L., 2023. Optimization 
strategies of fruit detection to overcome the challenge of unstructured background in 
field orchard environment: a review. Precis. Agric. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11119- 
023-10009-9.
Tian, Y., Yang, G., Wang, Z., Wang, H., Li, E., Liang, Z., 2019. Apple detection during 
different growth stages in orchards using the improved YOLO-V3 model. Comput. 
Electron. Agric. 157, 417–426. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2019.01.012.
Ultralytics, 2022. ultralytics/yolov5: v7.0 - YOLOv5 SOTA Realtime Instance 
Segmentation. https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.7347926.
Villacr´es, J., Viscaino, M., Delpiano, J., Vougioukas, S., Auat Cheein, F., 2023. Apple 
orchard production estimation using deep learning strategies: a comparison of 
tracking-by-detection algorithms. Comput. Electron. Agric. 204. https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.compag.2022.107513.
Wojke, N., Bewley, A., 2018. Deep cosine metric learning for person re-identification. In: 
Proceedings - 2018 IEEE Winter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision, 
WACV 2018. Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc., pp. 748–756. 
https://doi.org/10.1109/WACV.2018.00087.
Wojke, N., Bewley, A., Paulus, D., 2017. Simple online and realtime tracking with a deep 
association metric. In: Proceedings - International Conference on Image Processing, 
ICIP. IEEE Computer Society, pp. 3645–3649. https://doi.org/10.1109/ 
ICIP.2017.8296962.
Wu, Z., Sun, X., Jiang, H., Gao, F., Li, R., Fu, L., Zhang, D., Fountas, S., 2023a. Twice 
matched fruit counting system: an automatic fruit counting pipeline in modern apple 
orchard using mutual and secondary matches. Biosyst. Eng. 234, 140–155. https:// 
doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2023.09.005.
Wu, Z., Sun, X., Jiang, H., Mao, W., Li, R., Andriyanov, N., Soloviev, V., Fu, L., 2023b. 
NDMFCS: an automatic fruit counting system in modern apple orchard using 
abatement of abnormal fruit detection. Comput. Electron. Agric. 211, 108036. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2023.108036.
Yang, X., Gao, Y., Yin, M., Li, H., 2024. Automatic apple detection and counting with AD- 
YOLO and MR-SORT. Sensors 24, 7012. https://doi.org/10.3390/s24217012.
Zhai, Y., Zhang, L., Hu, X., Yang, F., Huang, Y., 2025. A Dynamic Kalman filtering 
method for multi-object fruit tracking and counting in complex orchards. Sensors 25, 
4138. https://doi.org/10.3390/s25134138.
Zhang, T., Zhao, D., Chen, Y., Zhang, H., Liu, S., 2024. DeepSORT with siamese 
convolution autoencoder embedded for honey peach young fruit multiple object 
tracking. Comput. Electron. Agric. 217. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
compag.2023.108583.
Zhang, W., Wang, J., Liu, Y., Chen, K., Li, H., Duan, Y., Wu, W., Shi, Y., Guo, W., 2022a. 
Deep-learning-based in-field citrus fruit detection and tracking. Hortic. Res. 9. 
https://doi.org/10.1093/hr/uhac003.
Zhang, Y., Sun, P., Jiang, Y., Yu, D., Weng, F., Yuan, Z., Luo, P., Liu, W., Wang, X., 2022b. 
ByteTrack: multi-object tracking by associating every detection box. Proceedings of 
the European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV).
Zhang, Y., Sun, P., Jiang, Y., Yu, D., Weng, F., Yuan, Z., Luo, P., Liu, W., Wang, X., 2022c. 
ByteTrack: Multi-object Tracking by Associating every Detection Box. In: Lecture 
Notes in Computer Science (Including Subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial 
Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics). Springer Science and Business 
Media Deutschland GmbH, pp. 1–21. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-20047-2_ 
1.
Zhou, X., Zhang, Y., Jiang, X., Riaz, K., Rosenbaum, P., Lefsrud, M., Sun, S., 2024. 
Advancing tracking-by-detection with MultiMap: towards occlusion-resilient online 
multiclass strawberry counting. Expert Syst. Appl. 255, 124587. https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.eswa.2024.124587.
Zhu, A., Zhang, R., Zhang, L., Yi, T., Wang, L., Zhang, D., Chen, L., 2024. YOLOv5s-CEDB: 
a robust and efficiency Camellia oleifera fruit detection algorithm in complex natural 
scenes. Comput. Electron. Agric. 221. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
compag.2024.108984.
M. Felip-Pom´es et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 255 (2026) 112330 
16 
