 
 
 
 
Appl. Sci. 2024, 14, 1136. https://doi.org/10.3390/app14031136 
www.mdpi.com/journal/applsci 
Article 
Approach of Dynamic Tracking and Counting for Obscured 
Citrus in Smart Orchard Based on Machine Vision 
Yuliang Feng 1,2, Wei Ma 2,*, Yu Tan 1,*, Hao Yan 1, Jianping Qian 3,*, Zhiwei Tian 2 and Ang Gao 4 
1 College of Engineering, China Agricultural University, Beijing 100083, China; fylove@cau.edu.cn (Y.F.); 
yanhao_re@163.com (H.Y.) 
2 Institute of Urban Agriculture, Chinese Academy of Agriculture Sciences, Chengdu 610213, China;  
tianzhiwei@caas.cn 
3 Institute of Agricultural Resources and Regional Planning, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences,  
Beijing 100081, China 
4 College of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering, Shandong Agricultural University, Taian 271018, China; 
2019110103@sdau.edu.cn 
* Correspondence: mawei03@caas.cn (W.M.); tanyu@cau.edu.cn (Y.T.); qianjianping@caas.cn (J.Q.) 
Abstract: The approach of dynamic tracking and counting for obscured citrus based on machine 
vision is a key element to realizing orchard yield measurement and smart orchard production man-
agement. In this study, focusing on citrus images and dynamic videos in a modern planting mode, 
we proposed the citrus detection and dynamic counting method based on the lightweight target 
detection network YOLOv7-tiny, Kalman filter tracking, and the Hungarian algorithm. The 
YOLOv7-tiny model was used to detect the citrus in the video, and the Kalman filter algorithm was 
used for the predictive tracking of the detected fruits. In order to realize optimal matching, the Hun-
garian algorithm was improved in terms of Euclidean distance and overlap matching and the two 
stages life filter was added; finally, the drawing lines counting strategy was proposed. ln this study, 
the detection performance, tracking performance, and counting effect of the algorithms are tested 
respectively; the results showed that the average detection accuracy of the YOLOv7-tiny model 
reached 97.23%, the detection accuracy in orchard dynamic detection reached 95.12%, the multi-
target tracking accuracy and the precision of the improved dynamic counting algorithm reached 
67.14% and 74.65% respectively, which were higher than those of the pre-improvement algorithm, 
and the average counting accuracy of the improved algorithm reached 81.02%. The method was 
proposed to effectively help fruit farmers grasp the number of citruses and provide a technical ref-
erence for the study of yield measurement in modernized citrus orchards and a scientific decision-
making basis for the intelligent management of orchards. 
Keywords: smart orchard; automatic detection; target tracking; dynamic counting 
 
1. Introduction 
The acquisition of yield information for citrus and other cash crops is an important 
part of the fine technology system and a key indicator for orchard production manage-
ment by fruit farmers [1]. It is also an important study direction for field information man-
agement in smart orchards. Citrus is one of the most widely planted agricultural products 
in the world, which is an important pillar of the agricultural economy in many countries, 
and it is also an important cash fruit crop in Southwest China [2]. With the continuous 
development of citrus planting technology, efficient cultivation patterns such as dense 
planting, fine pruning, and citrus bagging have become mainstream [3], which has greatly 
improved the efficiency of orchard land use. The accurate prediction of citrus production 
can help to effectively utilize resources and rationally allocate resources such as labor, 
storage space, and harvesting equipment [4]. However, at present, the number of fruits in 
intensively cultivated citrus orchards mainly relies on manual sampling and counting 
Citation: Feng, Y.; Ma, W.; Tan, Y.; 
Yan, H.; Qian, J.; Tian, Z.; Gao, A. 
Approach of Dynamic Tracking and 
Counting for Obscured Citrus in 
Smart Orchard Based on Machine 
Vision. Appl. Sci. 2024, 14, 1136. 
https://doi.org/10.3390/app14031136 
Academic Editor: José Miguel  
Molina Martínez 
Received: 9 January 2024 
Revised: 24 January 2024 
Accepted: 27 January 2024 
Published: 29 January 2024 
 
Copyright: © 2024 by the author. 
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. 
This article is an open access article 
distributed under the terms and 
conditions of the Creative Commons 
Attribution 
(CC 
BY) 
license 
(https://creativecommons.org/license
s/by/4.0/). 

Appl. Sci. 2024, 14, 1136 
2 of 15 
 
estimation, which is time-consuming and laborious. Therefore, the automatic counting of 
citrus fruits is essential for obtaining yield information in citrus orchards. 
In recent years, automatic counting methods oriented to fruit yield measurement 
have become the focus of study, but their studies have mainly focused on static models. 
Mekhalfi et al. [4] used the Viola-Jones based target detection algorithm to estimate the 
yield by counting kiwifruit images in the field and tested in two large kiwifruit orchards, 
which resulted in counting errors of 6% and 15%, respectively. Koirala et al. [5] proposed 
a deep learning model called “MangoYOLO”, trained on daytime images and robust to 
variations in orchards, varieties, and lighting conditions. It estimated fruit yields in five 
orchards with errors ranging from 4.6% to 15.2%. Although these related studies achieved 
good counting performance on static images, the static model is not applicable to the ac-
tual production environment, so the detection and tracking of the dynamic model have 
become a hot spot for future research. 
Fast and effective fruit detection in dynamic modeling is the basis for achieving high-
precision counting. Xu et al. [6] established a color model for citrus recognition on R-B 
color metrics using the dynamic thresholding method. Citrus was separated from the 
background and the detection of single and multiple fruits was carried out under both 
downlight and backlight conditions, with a high recognition correctness rate. Traditional 
target detection algorithms usually rely on features such as the color, texture, and shape 
of the target and combine morphological operations to segment the image to detect the 
target region [7,8]. However, traditional algorithms often struggle to balance real-time and 
accuracy, and the generalizability of the findings is limited. In contrast, deep learning-
based target detection algorithms have more efficient and accurate data representation, 
are more generalizable, and are easier to apply to real-world scenarios [9]. Among them, 
first-order detection algorithms (e.g., YOLO) and second-order detection algorithms (e.g., 
Faster R-CNN [10]) have faster detection speeds than traditional algorithms and are 
widely used in fruit detection research. Yan et al. [11] proposed an improved Faster 
RCNN-based prickly pear fruit recognition method. The region of interest pooling (ROI 
pooling) in the convolutional neural network is improved to the region of interest calibra-
tion (ROI align) of the regional feature aggregation method, which makes the target rec-
tangular box of the prickly pear fruit in the natural environment more accurate. ln order 
to realize real-time detection and counting, the single-stage target detection method rep-
resented by the YOLO series has a wider application in the field of fruit detection. Lu et 
al. [12] proposed a citrus recognition method based on an improved YOLOV3-LlTE light-
weight neural network, using a combination of hybrid training and migration learning 
with the training method to improve the generalization ability of the model, which signif-
icantly improves the accuracy of citrus fruit detection under the light occlusion of the fruit. 
Target tracking localizes the target in subsequent frames based on the position of the 
tracked target in the initial frame, thus correlating to the same target in the video [13–15]. 
ZHANG et al. [16] proposed the “OrangeSort” method based on simple online and real-
time tracking (SORT) for counting citrus in the field, which reduces the effect of leaf shad-
ing on the accuracy of citrus counting results, but the method ignores the appearance 
characteristics of the target. Xia et al. [17] introduced the Byte algorithm to improve Fair-
MOT’s data association strategy during fruit tracking to predictively track fruits in videos, 
but its use of depth features only in appearance does not fully represent the target and 
affects the tracking accuracy. Wojke et al. [18] proposed the DeepSort method which in-
corporates both motion and appearance information and which can achieve high multi-
target tracking accuracy (MOTA) while maintaining real-time speed, and can effectively 
reduce the impact of the occlusion problem. Therefore, the DeepSort method has reference 
significance for fruit counting in complex citrus orchard environments. 
This study aims to provide an effective dynamic tracking and counting approach for 
citrus in a complex orchard environment. Additionally, the study introduces the two 
stages life filter into DeepSORT to improve the algorithm performance. Based on the 
YOLOv7-tiny deep learning target detection algorithm, the former combines the Kalman 

Appl. Sci. 2024, 14, 1136 
3 of 15 
 
filter and the Hungarian algorithm to realize the fusion of motion and appearance fea-
tures. The latter significantly reduces the number of missed citrus and improves the accu-
racy of automatic citrus counting. 
2. Material and Method 
2.1. Experiment Site 
In order to make the collected dataset have practical reference value, pictures and 
videos of citrus taken from real citrus orchards were used as the experimental dataset in 
this paper. The experimental orchard is located in Pujiang County, Chengdu City, Sichuan 
Province, China, and the widely cultivated Kasumi citrus varieties were used as the main 
study objects. We used a Sony IMX596 camera to capture 2000 citrus images and supple-
mented the dataset with 200 citrus images from the Jiangxi experiment site, 300 citrus 
images from the Guangxi experiment site, and 500 citrus images from the Guangdong 
experiment site in order to increase the generalizability of the dataset. The dataset totaled 
3000 citrus images of different orchards with different varieties, and the collection loca-
tions and the number of datasets is shown in Figure 1. 
 
Figure 1. Experiment site and composition of dataset. 
2.2. Image Preparation and Processing 
The data collection test site was mostly in low-light weather and the number of im-
ages of different citrus varieties was limited, so pre-processing was performed to enhance 
the data. Various methods such as changing the brightness, changing the saturation, and 
rotating mirror images were used to preprocess the data as needed. In this paper, 3000 
citrus images were preprocessed to increase the saturation by 5 times, increase the bright-
ness by 70 pixels, decrease the brightness by 70 pixels, and be flipped vertically as shown 
in Figure 2. Then, the data collection was supplemented by the public dataset MOT16 [19], 
the number of citrus images in this experimental dataset was expanded to 15,000, and the 
training set, validation set and test set were divided according to the ratio of 7:2:1. 

Appl. Sci. 2024, 14, 1136 
4 of 15 
 
 
Figure 2. Causes and effects of data augmentation. 
2.3. Approach of Citrus Tracking and Counting Based on YOLOv7-Tiny and DeepSORT 
Citrus fruit counting is generally accompanied by the bagging of citrus. At this time, 
citrus has entered the coloring period and there is a clear difference in color with the back-
ground, which is conducive to the counting and estimation of yield. The citrus tracking 
and counting method based on YOLOv7-tiny and DeepSORT proposed in this paper 
mainly consists of the following steps: (1) target detection: use YOLOv7-tiny network to 
detect the citrus in the video, and get the target detection frame and the corresponding 
features; (2) target prediction: use Kalman filtering algorithm to predict the position and 
state of the citrus in the next frame of the video, and (3) target matching: use the Hungar-
ian algorithm to cascade match and IOU match the predicted tracks and detections in the 
current frame, which are updated by Kalman filtering and output as tracking results. 
Among them, the track that fails in target matching is initialized as a new tracking track; 
in order to reduce the fruit loss and repeated matching errors caused by the new track, 
the two stages life filter is additionally added to the algorithm in this paper. 
The two stages life filter (TTSLF) and three consecutive frames detection are applied 
in new track. The filtered track enters the target matching session after successful detec-
tion and the track is deleted after failure. The overall flow of the tracking and counting 
method is shown in Figure 3. 

Appl. Sci. 2024, 14, 1136 
5 of 15 
 
 
Figure 3. Overall flow chart of citrus tracking and counting method. 
In the target detection part, the YOLO algorithm has the advantage of high target 
detection accuracy, while agricultural robots have high requirements for easy scalability 
and high accuracy. Therefore, we focus on agricultural robot harvesting research based 
on algorithm comparison. The YOLOv7-tiny uses fewer convolutional layers and chan-
nels than YOLOv7, YOLOX, and other models, the inference speed is faster, suitable for 
real-time detection of citrus with high real-time requirements, and the model is small in 
size, occupies less storage space and video memory, and is suitable to be deployed in re-
source-limited devices. It is also suitable for deployment on resource-limited devices, 
which is favorable for the development of agricultural robots in citrus orchards. Therefore, 
YOLOv7-tiny is chosen as the target detection algorithm for citrus. 
In the target tracking part, the DeepSORT algorithm [18] added Re-ID appearance fea-
tures, reducing ID switches by 45% after applying the deep association metric to targets. By 
considering both motion and appearance in the matching strategy, it achieved good perfor-
mance at high rates. So, we added a two-stage life filter to the DeepSORT algorithm, which 
significantly reduced matching failures and improved fruit counting accuracy. 
2.3.1. Citrus Fruit Detection Based on YOLOv7-Tiny 
After investigating and studying the target detection algorithms, we found that the 
YOLOv7-tiny network used the darknet deep learning framework to achieve end-to-end 
training of the input image. The YOLO network [20,21] first realizes the input image to 
416 × 416 and converts it into a 416x416x3 tensor, then the backbone network converts the 
tensor of the input image into a higher dimensional feature map. The neck converts the 
feature map extracted by the backbone network into a feature map suitable for target de-
tection. The detection head predicts the location and class of the target in the image. Fi-
nally, the detection results are post-processed to remove duplicates and sort the results to 
obtain the final target detection results. 
2.3.2. DeepSORT-Based Citrus Fruit Tracking 
The YOLOv7-tiny deep learning model is used to extract the visual features of the 
targets such that each target has a unique representation in the feature space. Then the 
DeepSORT [22] serialization optimization algorithm, specifically the SORT (simple online 
and realtime tracking) algorithm based on the Kalman filter and the Hungarian algorithm 

Appl. Sci. 2024, 14, 1136 
6 of 15 
 
is used to achieve the tracking of citrus fruits and maintain the stability and accuracy of 
tracking. 
1. 
Fruit target prediction based on the Kalman filter algorithm 
Kalman filtering (KF) is a recursive filtering method for estimating the state of a sys-
tem and is commonly used in linear systems in areas such as signal processing, control 
systems, and target tracking [23,24]. Since the video frame rate of the citrus fruits acquired 
in this paper is 30 frames/s, the position of citrus fruits varies very little between video 
sequences (which can be basically regarded as a uniform motion) and it can be assumed 
that the citrus fruit tracking system is linearly correlated over time. In the prediction 
phase, the Kalman filter predicts the corresponding citrus tracking position and its covar-
iance matrix based on the detected position of the YOLOv7-tiny network. 
𝑥̂𝑘|𝑘−1 = 𝐴𝑥̂𝑘−1|𝑘−1 + 𝐵𝑢𝑘−1  
(1)
𝑃𝑘|𝑘−1 = 𝐴𝑃𝑘−1|𝑘−1𝐴𝑇+ 𝑄 
(2)
where 𝑥̂𝑘|𝑘−1 is the a priori state estimate of the 𝑘th frame, which is the result of the in-
termediate computation of filtering, i.e., the result of the kth frame predicted based on the 
optimal estimate of the previous frame (𝑘−1 frame), and the result of the prediction 
equation; 𝐴 and 𝐵 are the parameter matrices of the system; 𝑥̂𝑘−1|𝑘−1 is the a posteriori 
state estimate for the 𝑘−1 frame, which is one of the results of the filtering; 𝑢𝑘−1 is the 
process noise at frame 𝑘−1; 𝑃𝑘|𝑘−1 is the a priori estimated covariance at frame 𝑘, which 
represents the uncertainty of the state and is one of the results of the filtering; and 𝑄 is 
the covariance of the system’s process noise, which is the state variable used by the Kal-
man filter for estimating the discrete-time process. 
In the update phase, the Kalman filter optimizes the predicted values obtained in the 
prediction phase using observations of the current frame to obtain a more accurate new 
estimate, i.e., updating the fruit tracking position and its covariance matrix based on the 
matching relationship between the detected and predicted fruits. 
𝐾𝑘= 𝑃𝑘|𝑘−1𝐻𝑇(𝐻𝑃𝑘|𝑘−1𝐻𝑇+ 𝑅)
−1  
(3)
𝑥̂𝑘|𝑘= 𝑥̂𝑘|𝑘−1 + 𝐾𝑘(𝑍𝑘−𝐻𝑥̂𝑘|𝑘−1) 
(4)
𝑃𝑘|𝑘= (𝐼−𝐾𝑘𝐻)𝑃𝑘|𝑘−1 
(5)
where 𝐾𝑘 is the filter gain matrix, which is the intermediate calculation of the filter; 𝐻 is 
the state variable to observation variable conversion matrix, which represents the rela-
tionship connecting state and observation. 𝑅 is the measurement noise covariance; 𝑥̂𝑘|𝑘 is 
the number of frames in the 𝑘 frame of the a posteriori state estimate, which is one of the 
results of the filtering; 𝑍𝑘 is the measurement value, which is an input to the filtering; 
𝑃𝑘|𝑘 is the a posteriori estimated covariance of the 𝑘 frame’s a posteriori estimated covar-
iance, which is one of the results of the filtering; 𝐼 is the unit matrix. 
2. 
Fruit Target Matching Based on the Hungarian Algorithm 
The Hungarian algorithm is a combinatorial optimization algorithm for solving the 
task allocation problem in polynomial time [25]. In this paper, after obtaining the video 
detection results and the prediction results in the citrus video, the Euclidean distance is 
used to measure the similarity between the Kalman filtered prediction results and the 
YOLOv7-tiny detection results. 
In the citrus target matching stage, the Hungarian algorithm is used to seek the opti-
mal solution for matching the prediction results with the detection results, as in Equation 
(6), and the successful matching enters the update stage of Kalman filtering. 

Appl. Sci. 2024, 14, 1136 
7 of 15 
 
𝑠. 𝑡{
∑
𝑥𝑖,𝑗
𝑚
𝑖=1
= 1, 𝑖= 1,2, . . . , 𝑚
∑
𝑥𝑖,𝑗
𝑛
𝑗=1
= 1, 𝑗= 1,2, . . . , 𝑛
𝑥𝑖,𝑗= 0 or 1, 𝑖(𝑗) = 1,2, . . . , 𝑚(𝑛)
  
(6)
where 𝑚 and 𝑛 are the number of fruits tracked and number of fruits detected, respec-
tively.  
2.3.3. Citrus Drawing Lines Counting Strategy  
Citrus fruit trees in the Sichuan and Chongqing regions of China are predominantly 
evergreen with a high branching rate, robust branching vigor, and abundant foliage. 
These characteristics contribute to the frequent obscuration of citrus fruits by branches 
and leaves during the acquisition of citrus counting videos. During the target tracking 
process, it may lead to the loss of citrus targets or the identity ID of the same citrus target 
jumping, which is easy to repeat counting or omission (Figure 4). 
 
Figure 4. Introduction of drawing lines counting strategy. 
3. Experiments and Analysis 
3.1. Experiment Design 
The training platform consisted of a laptop equipped with a 13th Gen Intel(R) Core 
(TM) i9-13900HX (2.20 GHz) CPU, 16 GB of RAM, and an NVIDIA RTX 4060 Laptop GPU. 
Software tools included CUDA 12.0, cuDNN, Pycharm2022, Python 3.8, and OpenCV 
4.4.0. 
During the citrus target detection experiment, the initial learning rate of the optimal 
hyperparameters in the network is set to 0.001 according to the grid search algorithm, the 
weight decay coefficient is 0.0005, and the training strategy adopts the momentum gradi-
ent descent algorithm with a momentum term of 0.9, and the number of iterations is set 
to 50.000. Subsequently, we use the network model obtained from the training to detect 
the citrus image and citrus video, respectively, and to compare the accuracy of the citrus 
detection and the accuracy of the citrus video tracking. 
For the experimental validation of the citrus counting strategy, we manually counted 
the 10 citrus videos obtained, and the actual number of citrus fruits in the videos was 
obtained by averaging the counting results obtained by the researchers. When counting, 
we played the video frame by frame, first recorded the number of fruits in the first frame, 
and then recorded the number of newly appeared fruits in the subsequent frames until 
the end of the video, to get the total number of fruits in the video and completed the man-
ual counting of fruits. Subsequently, based on the algorithm of this paper and the pro-
posed counting strategy, the number of citrus fruits in 10 videos were obtained separately, 
and the algorithm counting results were compared with the manual counting results to 
test the citrus video counting accuracy.  
 
 

Appl. Sci. 2024, 14, 1136 
8 of 15 
 
3.2. Experimental Evaluation Indicators 
3.2.1. Fruits Detection Experiment 
Precision (P), recall (R), harmonized average of precision and recall rates (F1), aver-
age Detection Precision (ADP), and detection time for detecting an image are used to eval-
uate the performance of the trained network mode. The performance of the obtained net-
work model and the calculation formula is shown below. In addition, video detection ac-
curacy (VDA) was used to represent the ratio of correctly detected targets to all targets by 
the model, with higher values indicating better model performance. 
𝐹1 =
2𝑃𝑅
𝑃+𝑅  
(7)
𝐴𝐷𝑃= ∫𝑃(𝑅)𝑑𝑅
1
0
  
(8)
3.2.2. Fruits Tracking Experiment 
Fruit ID switch rate (IDSR), multiple object tracking accuracy (MOTA), and multiple 
object tracking precision (MOTP) are used to evaluate the tracking algorithm perfor-
mance. Fruit ID switching rate refers to the ratio of the fruits whose IDs have changed to 
all counted fruits in the video, and the smaller value means better tracking performance. 
Multi-target tracking accuracy indicates the performance of the tracking algorithm in 
maintaining the tracking trajectory and the larger value means the better tracking perfor-
mance, as shown in Equation (9). Multi-target tracking accuracy refers to the success rate 
of matching all tracked targets; the higher the accuracy, the better the performance of the 
algorithm, as shown in Equation (10). 
𝑀𝑂𝑇𝐴= 𝑀𝑆
⁄  
(9)
𝑀𝑂𝑇𝑃= 𝑀𝑇
⁄  
(10)
where 𝑆 denotes the total number of fruits tracked in the video, i.e., the number of algo-
rithm counts; M denotes the number of fruits tracked and matched correctly in the video; 
and T denotes the total number of fruits tracked and matched in the video, i.e., the number 
of detections. 
3.2.3. Fruits Counting Experiment 
In fruit counting, this paper adopts an average counting precision 𝐴𝑐𝑝 as the evalu-
ation index of citrus counting effect. The larger the average counting precision, the more 
accurate the counting performance of the algorithm in this paper. The formula is:  
𝐴𝑐𝑝=
∑(1−|𝑆−𝐺|
𝐺
)
𝑛1
𝑛
  
(11)
where 𝑆 denotes the number of fruits in the counting video obtained by the algorithm of 
this paper, and G denotes the number of fruits in the manual counting citrus video, and 
𝑛 denotes the number of videos. 
3.3. Results and Analysis 
3.3.1. Fruit Detection Performance 
In order to validate the detection accuracy of the detection algorithms YOLOv7-tiny 
on the citrus dataset, four target detection methods, YOLOv5, YOLOv5-tiny, YOLOX, and 
YOLOv7-tiny, were tested for comparison in this paper, and the test results are showed 
in Table 1.  
 
 

Appl. Sci. 2024, 14, 1136 
9 of 15 
 
Table 1. Test results of several different object detection algorithms on bagged grape dataset. 
Methods for Object 
Detection 
Precision 
Recall Rate 
Average Detection 
Precision 
YOLOv5 
96.62% 
95.22% 
94.17% 
YOLOv5-tiny 
95.19% 
94.00% 
94.04% 
YOLOX 
94.84% 
93.24% 
89.02% 
YOLOv7-tiny 
96.81% 
96.39% 
97.23% 
The experiment results show that the precision, recall, and average precision of 
YOLOv7-tiny are 96.81%, 96.39%, and 97.23%, respectively, which are 1.97 percentage 
points, 3.15 percentage points, and 8.21 percentage points higher than those of YOLOX, 
and the precision, recall, and average precision of YOLOv7-tiny are 1.62 percentage 
points, 2.39 percentage points, and 3.19 percentage points higher than those of YOLOv5-
tiny, respectively. Compared with YOLOv5, the precision, recall, and average precision 
are improved by 0.19 percentage points, 1.17 percentage points, and 3.06 percentage 
points, respectively. The superior detection performance of YOLOv7-tiny on the citrus 
dataset was demonstrated. 
YOLOv5, YOLOv5-tiny, and YOLOX have unsatisfactory citrus detection mainly due 
to the following reasons: (1)when two detection targets overlap each other and obscure 
each other, YOLOv5, YOLOv5-tiny, and YOLOX will recognize the two overlapping citrus 
as a single citrus, which leads to errors in tracking counts; (2) the identity ID jumping 
phenomenon will occur in the detection process of YOLOv5, YOLOv5-tiny, and YOLOX 
will occur identity ID jumping phenomenon during the detection process, counting the 
same citrus repeatedly; (3) in the complex environment of citrus orchards, the obscurity 
of leaves causes YOLOv5, YOLOv5-tiny, and YOLO to fail to detect the obscured citrus.  
3.3.2. Fruit Tracking Performance 
The proposed citrus tracking and counting algorithm based on YOLOv7-tiny and 
DeepSORT conducts tracking experiments on citrus videos in the dataset and obtains 
good tracking results. In the dynamic tracking experiments of citrus videos, fruits are ob-
scured by multiple leaves, resulting in the intermittent detection of fruits, which produces 
intermittent appearance of detection frames, fragmentation identification, misidentifica-
tion or identity ID jumps; meanwhile, camera motion-induced motion blur can cause pre-
diction frame matching failures, which significantly affect tracking results. Therefore, we 
propose a two-stage life filter to improve the success rate of prediction frame matching, 
reduce fruit leakage, and mitigate identity ID jumping. 
During the dynamic tracking of citrus, complex citrus growing environments make 
multiple conditions, which affect the accuracy of dynamic citrus tracking counting. Those 
conditions are shown in Table 2. Normal conditions can be easily detected and tracked; 
fruit overlap identifies two or more citrus as one, resulting in a reduced value counting; 
fruit obscured by trunk is difficult to be detected and always makes the detection jump; 
motion blur makes it difficult to detect citrus and result in reduced counts; fruit obscured 
by branches and leaves makes detection more difficult, which counts a citrus as more than 
one; fragmentary images result in reduced counts. For those problems arising from ob-
scurity in complex environments, the two stages life filter proposed in this paper effec-
tively improves it. The method reduces the leakage rate and improves the counting accu-
racy through the re-matching of new trajectories. 
 
 

Appl. Sci. 2024, 14, 1136 
10 of 15 
 
Table 2. Multiple conditions of citrus in orchard environment. 
NO 
legend (of a Map, etc.) 
Condition 
Influence 
1 
Normal conditions 
Detecting and 
counting targets 
2 
Fruit overlap 
Resulting in a 
reduced number of 
counts 
3 
Fruit obscured by trunk 
Making the 
detection frame 
jump and reduced 
counts 
4 
Motion blur 
Failing to detect 
citrus, resulting in 
reduced counts 
5 
Fruit obscured by 
branches and leaves 
Counting a citrus as 
more than one 
6 
Fragmentary image 
Resulting in 
reduced counts 
Ten citrus videos (300–548 frames) were tracked and counted using the pre- and post-
improvement tracking and counting algorithms, respectively, and the resulting tracking 
metrics are shown in Table 3. The MOTA of the improved algorithm is 67.14%, which is 
21.78 percentage points higher than that of the pre-improved one. The MOTP is 17.88 per-
centage points higher, and the tracking credibility has been greatly improved. The high 
complexity of the citrus orchard environment and the precision of video shooting cause 
the identity ID of the citrus to jump very easily, which is the main reason for the tracking 
error. The algorithm improved by adding the two stages life filter reduces the IDSR in the 
detection result video from 25.97% to 15.63%, which reduces the fruit tracking error to a 
certain extent. 
 
 

Appl. Sci. 2024, 14, 1136 
11 of 15 
 
Table 3. Comparison of tracking results before and after algorithm improvement. 
Algorithm 
Performance 
Before Improvement 
After Improvement 
Results 
Video detection 
accuracy 
Normal 
conditions 
95.12% 
95.12% 
No improvement 
obscured 
citrus 
Same as above 
Same as above 
No improvement 
ID switch rate 
Normal 
conditions 
25.97% 
15.63% 
Improvements 
obscured 
citrus 
Same as above 
Same as above 
Improvements 
Multiple objects 
tracking accuracy 
Normal 
conditions 
45.36% 
67.14% 
Improvements 
obscured 
citrus 
5% decrease  
Not affected 
Improvements 
Multiple objects 
tracking precision 
Normal 
conditions 
56.77% 
74.65% 
Improvements 
obscured 
citrus 
7% decrease 
Not affected 
Improvements 
3.3.3. Fruit Counting Accuracy 
In order to accurately estimate the number of citruses in the video and realize the 
counting of citrus to estimate the production, we propose a drawing lines counting strat-
egy to count citrus and conduct experiments on the citrus video dataset. We compare the 
manual counting values, the algorithm’s counting values before improvement, and the 
algorithm’s counting values after improvement, then validate the effectiveness of the al-
gorithm by fitting the manual counting values and the algorithm’s counting values after 
improvement.  
The fitted straight line is shown as formula (12) and 𝑅2 (The coefficient of determi-
nation) is 0.9982, RMSE (Root Mean Square Error) is 32.300.  
𝑦= 1.0742 𝑥+ 0.8083 
(12)
The RMSE (root mean square error) between the number of fruits obtained by the 
algorithm and the number of fruits obtained by manual counting is 32.300. the counting 
accuracy of the 10 citrus videos based on Equation (11) was about 80%, with an average 
accuracy of 81.02%. From the fitting results, the coefficient of determination 𝑅2 value is 
0.9982, indicating that the algorithm in this paper has a significant linear correlation be-
tween the fruit counting values in modernorchard videos and the real values. From the 
fitting results, it can be seen that the counting accuracy does not change significantly with 
the number of citruses in the video, indicating that the method proposed in this paper has 
good robustness. The comparison of counting values is shown in Figure 5. Figure 5 shows 
that the algorithm counting values after improvement are closer to the real values of man-
ual counting than the algorithm counting values before improvement. 

Appl. Sci. 2024, 14, 1136 
12 of 15 
 
 
Figure 5. Comparison of manual counting and algorithmic counting in citrus video. 
To test whether there is a significant difference between the algorithm counting val-
ues after improvement and manual counting value, we used the p-value test of the chi-
square test. We take the manual counting value as the target value and the algorithm 
counting values after improvement as the actual value. Then we formulate the original 
hypothesis that there is no significant difference between the algorithm counting value 
and the manual value, and the alternative hypothesis that there is a significant difference 
between the algorithm counting value and the manual value. Finally, the statistic comes 
to be tested by the p-value. The p-value is the probability of the chi-square statistic, which 
indicates the probability that the observed chi-square statistic is greater than or equal to 
the actual observed chi-square statistic if the original hypothesis holds. If the p-value is 
less than the significance level, the original hypothesis is rejected and the alternative hy-
pothesis is accepted, i.e., the algorithm counting value is significantly different from the 
manual value. Otherwise, the original hypothesis is accepted, i.e., there is no significant 
difference between the algorithm counting value and the manual value.  
We calculated a p-value of 0.0133 for the data and in the chi-square test, the signifi-
cance level for this statistic was chosen to be 0.01. Since the p-value was greater than the 
significance level, the original hypothesis was accepted that there is no significant differ-
ence between the algorithm counting value and the manual value. The result also provides 
support for the accuracy of the dynamic tracking and counting for obscured citrus in the 
Smart Orchard Based on Machine Vision. 
4. Discussion 
Table 4 studies the different fruit detection and counting methods applied to citrus. 
It compares the task, datasets, and methods and lists the advantages and disadvantages 
of each to better explain the experimental results obtained in this paper. 
 
 

Appl. Sci. 2024, 14, 1136 
13 of 15 
 
Table 4. Studies on different fruit detection and counting methods applied to citrus. 
Year 
Reference 
Task 
Dataset 
Methods 
Pros and Cons 
2023 
[1] 
Detection and 
counting of citrus 
fruits in a greenhouse 
environment. 
Smartphone; 7272 
from a citrus 
plantations in 
Guangzhou city, 
China. 
YOLOv5 model with SE 
attention mechanism; 
DeepSORT algorithm 
Rapid, high precision but 
network structure is large 
2023 
[17] 
Detection and 
automatic estimation 
of citrus with a 
lightweight model for 
edge computing 
devices 
Smartphone; 40 
videos from a 
citrus plantations 
in Guangxi, China. 
CSPDarkNet53+PAFPN 
network;  
Improved FairMOT 
algorithm using Byte 
algorithm. 
Can be used on edge 
computing equipment 
2022 
[26] 
Counting the number 
of fruits in a single 
citrus tree based on 
static images. 
MER-131-U3C 
Industrial Camera; 
Dataset from 
Chongqing, China. 
K-Means clustering 
algorithm;  
Gradient-based Hough 
transform; 
Have fewer practical 
applications 
2021 
[27] 
Detection and 
counting of Kasumi 
citrus 
AT-C0320X2-
REV1.1 Camera; 
900 photos and 
some videos from 
Chengdu city, 
China. 
YOLOv4, CSPResNest50 
network; the Recursive 
Feature Pyramid 
network. 
Rapid, high precision but not 
as effective as YOLOv7-tiny 
2019 
[28] 
Rapid automatic fruit 
detection and yield 
prediction 
Smartphone 
iPhone XR; 
Dataset from 
Shiraz Ranch farm 
in California, USA 
Application of MATLAB 
software (2017b) based 
on Hough’s circle 
transform method. 
Simple, rapid, good 
robustness but fewer practical 
application 
In this study, we found that due to the complex citrus orchard environment and the 
biological characteristics of leafy citrus tree, the tracking and counting of citruses were 
difficult. According to the significant color difference between the citrus fruits and the 
orchard background, Jiang et al. [26] used the K-Means clustering algorithm and the Gra-
dient-based Hough transform to count the number of fruits in a single citrus tree based 
on static images. The traditional method is simple but easily affected by the weather and 
other natural environments, which results in fewer practical applications. 
Compared with traditional methods, deep learning often uses trained algorithms for 
target detection and tracking. Zhuang et al. [1] improved citrus fruits recognition by the 
incorporation of the SE attention mechanism and combined DeepSORT algorithm with 
improved YOLOv5. Yi et al. [27] improved the YOLOv4 by using CSPResNest50 network 
and the Recursive Feature Pyramid network. These YOLO algorithms are better than tra-
ditional but not as effective as YOLOv7-tiny. 
Considering the practical applications, Xia et al. [17] achieved the detection and au-
tomatic estimation of citrus with a lightweight model for edge computing devices and 
Zhang et al. [28] used the Hough’s circle transform method on MATLAB software (v. 
2017b) to achieve rapid automatic fruit detection and yield prediction. These approaches 
are difficult to port to embedded devices and require specialized edge computing devices. 
In this study, we proposed a citrus detection and dynamic counting method based 
on the lightweight target detection network YOLOv7-tiny, the Kalman filter tracking and 
the Hungarian algorithm. The YOLOv7 has a fast detection speed, a high target detection 
accuracy, a lightweight network and easy portability to various embedded devices. The 

Appl. Sci. 2024, 14, 1136 
14 of 15 
 
incorporation of the two stages life filter makes DeepSORT have high tracking efficiency 
and counting accuracy. 
5. Conclusions 
In this study, the YOLOv7-tiny algorithm and the DeepSORT algorithm are used to 
detect and track citrus in natural environments, while a citrus fruit counting strategy 
based on modern citrus plantations is proposed. The YOLOv7-tiny network model was 
trained using the acquired images of different citrus varieties in different locations, and 
its average detection precision (ADP) and video average detection accuracy (VDA) values 
reached 97.23% and 95.12%, and it takes only 0.011s to detect an image. Using this model, 
the citrus fruits are detected frame by frame in the video dataset, and the pixel coordinates 
of the citrus are obtained. Based on the Kalman filter to predict the citrus position, and 
successively based on the Euclidean distance and the intersection over union to measure 
the similarity between predicted and detected citrus. The Hungarian algorithm is used to 
match the same fruit inconsecutive video frames, and the prediction frames that failed to 
be matched are updated to a new trajectory which is re-tracked and matched again after 
two stages life filter. The multiple object tracking accuracy (MOTA) and multiple object 
tracking precision (MOTP) are 67.14% and 74.15%, respectively. Finally, fruit counting 
was achieved by a drawing lines counting strategy, combining the identity ID assigned to 
each citrus, and with an ACP (average counting precision) of 81.02%. Based on the algo-
rithm and counting strategy of this paper, we obtained the number of citruses in 10 citrus 
videos, which was processed in combination with the number of manual counts to obtain 
a coefficient of determination of 0.9982. And the RMSE (root mean square error) is 32.300, 
which indicates the effectiveness of the drawing lines counting strategy. 
In conclusion, the presented approach of dynamic tracking and counting for ob-
scured citrus holds immense potential for smart orchard information monitoring. Its ap-
plications include yield estimates for different periods, efficiency enhancement, and in-
ventory management. It will contribute to the development of smart orchards and provide 
support for the establishment of unmanned standard orchards. At the same time, relevant 
technologies should also continue to be studied to promote sustainable development and 
smart agriculture. 
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, Y.F., W.M. and Y.T.; Software, Y.F. and A.G.; Validation, 
Z.T.; Investigation, J.Q., H.Y.; Resources, Y.F.; Data curation, Y.F.; Writing—original draft prepara-
tion, Y.F. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript. All authors 
have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript. 
Funding: This research was funded by the Institute of Urban Agriculture, Chinese Academy of Ag-
riculture Sciences (grant number: ASTIP2023-34-1UA-10); key projects of the Sichuan Provincial Sci-
ence and Technology Plan (grant number 2022YFG0147); the Chengdu Local Finance Special Fund 
Project for NASC (grant number: NASC2022KR08), (grant number: NASC2021KR02) and (grant 
number: NASC2021KR07). 
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable. 
Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable. 
Data Availability Statement: The data presented in this study are available on request from the 
corresponding author. The data are not publicly available due to privacy. 
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest. 
References 
1. 
Zhuang, H.; Zhou, J.; Lin, Y.; Pong, H.; Lin, H. Citrus Fruit Recognition and Counting Study Based on Improved 
YOLOv5+DeepSort. South Forum 2023, 8, 9–13. 
2. 
Li, X.; Sun, D.; Liu, H. A Study on China’s Citrus Export Growth Based on Ternary Marginal Analysis. Chin. J. Agric. Resour. 
Reg. Plan. 2021, 42, 110–118. 
3. 
Sun, J.; Wang, D.; Liu, C.; Wu, X.; Wu, Q.; Cheng, H. Research progress of citrus on-tree storage. China Fruits 2021, 1–6, 10. 

Appl. Sci. 2024, 14, 1136 
15 of 15 
 
4. 
Mekhalfi, M.L.; Nicolò, C.; Ianniello, I.; Calamita, F.; Goller, R.; Barazzuol, M.; Melgani, F. Vision System for Automatic On-
Tree Kiwifruit Counting and Yield Estimation. Sensors 2020, 20, 4214. 
5. 
Koirala, A.; Walsh, K.B.; Wang, Z.; Mccarthy, C. Deep learning for real-time fruit detection and orchard fruit load estimation: 
Benchmarking of ‘MangoYOLO’. Precis. Agric. 2019, 20, 1107–1135. 
6. 
Xu, H.; Ye, Z.; Ying, Y. A study on tree citrus recognition based on color information. Trans. Chin. Soc. Agric. Eng. 2005, 21, 98–
101. 
7. 
Xu, L.; Lv, J. Segmentation of Yangmei images based on homomorphic filtering and K-means clustering algorithm. Trans. Chin. 
Soc. Agric. Eng. 2015, 31, 202–208. 
8. 
Lv, J.; Wang, F.; Xu, L.; Ma, Z.; Yang, B. A segmentation method of bagged green apple image. Sci. Hortic. 2019, 246, 411–417. 
9. 
Huang, H.; Duan, X.; Huang, X. Research and Improvement of Fruits Detection Based on Deep Learning. Comput. Eng. Appl. 
2020, 56, 127–133. 
10. 
Gou, Y.; Yan, J.; Zhang, F.; Sun, C.; Xu, Y. Research Progress on Vision System and Manipulator of Fruit Picking Robot. Comput. 
Eng. Appl. 2023, 59, 13–26. 
11. 
Yan, J.; Zhao, Y.; Zhang, L.; Su, X.; Liu, H.; Zhang, F.; Fan, W.; He, L. Recognition of Rosa roxbunghii in natural environment 
based on improved Faster RCNN. Trans. Chin. Soc. Agric. Eng. 2019, 35, 144–151. 
12. 
Lv, S.; Lu, S.; Li, Z.; Hong, T.; Xu, Y.; Wu, B. Orange recognition method using improved YOLOv3-LITE lightweight neural 
network. Trans. Chin. Soc. Agric. Eng. 2019, 35, 205–214. 
13. 
Lukežič, A.; Vojíř, T.; ehovin Zajc, L.; Matas, J.; Kristan, M. Discriminative Correlation Filter Tracker with Channel and Spatial 
Reliability. Int. J. Comput. Vis. 2018, 126, 671–688. 
14. 
Gao, F.; Wu, Z.; Suo, R.; Zhou, Z.; Li, R.; Fu, L.; Zhang, Z. Apple detection and counting using real-time video based on deep 
learning and object tracking. Trans. Chin. Soc. Agric. Eng. 2021, 37, 217–224. 
15. 
Lv, J.; Zhang, G.; Liu, Q.; Li, S. Bagged grape yield estimation method using a self-correcting NMS-ByteTrack. Trans. Chin. Soc. 
Agric. Eng. 2023, 39, 182–190. 
16. 
Zhang, Y.; Wang, C.; Wang, X.; Zeng, W.; Liu, W. FairMOT: On the Fairness of Detection and Re-Identification in Multiple 
Object Tracking. Int. J. Comput. Vis. 2021, 129, 3069–3087. 
17. 
Xia, X.; Chai, X.; Zhang, N.; Zhou, S.; Sun, Q.; Sun, T. A lightweight fruit load estimation model for edge computing equipment. 
Smart Agric. 2023, 5, 1–12. 
18. 
Nicolai, W.; Alex, B.; Dietrich, P. Simple Online and Realtime Tracking with a Deep Association Metric. In Proceedings of the 2017 
IEEE International Conference on Image Processing (ICIP) Beijing, China, 17-20 September 2017. 
19. 
Anton, M.; Leal-Taixe, L.; Reid, I.; Roth, S.; Schindler, K. MOT16: A Benchmark for Multi-Object Tracking; Cornell University 
Library: Ithaca, NY, USA, 2016. 
20. 
Chien-Yao, W.; Bochkovskiy, A.; Hong-Yuan, M.L. YOLOv7: Trainable Bag-of-Freebies Sets New State-of-the-Art for Real-Time 
Object Detectors; Cornell University Library: Ithaca, NY, USA, 2022. 
21. 
Jiang, T.; Zhao, J.; Wang, M. Bird Detection on Power Transmission Lines Based on Improved YOLOv7. Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 
11940. 
22. 
Xie, T.; Yao, X. Smart Logistics Warehouse Moving-Object Tracking Based on YOLOv5 and DeepSORT. Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 9895. 
23. 
Li, Z.; Yang, X.; Li, L.; Chen, H. Iterated Orthogonal Simplex Cubature Kalman Filter and Its Applications in Target Tracking. 
Appl. Sci. 2024, 14, 392. 
24. 
Sinopoli, B.; Schenato, L.; Franceschetti, M.; Poolla, K.; Jordan, M.I.; Sastry, S.S. Kalman Filtering with Intermittent Observations. 
IEEE Trans. Autom. Control 2004, 49, 1453–1464. 
25. 
Mills-Tettey, G.A.; Stentz, A.; Dias, M.B. The Dynamic Hungarian Algorithm for the Assignment Problem with Changing Costs; Ro-
botics Institute, Pittsburgh, PA, USA, 2007. 
26. 
Jiang, X. Research on yield prediction of single mature citrus tree based on image recognition. Agric. Mach. Agron. 2022, 12, 66–
68. 
27. 
Yi, S.; Li, J.; Zhang, P.; Wang, D. Detecting and counting of spring-see citrus using YOLOv4 network model and recursive fusion 
of features. Trans. Chin. Soc. Agric. Eng. 2021, 37, 161–169. 
28. 
Zhang, X.; Ma, R.; Wu, K.; Huang, Z.; Wang, J. Fast Detection and Yield Estimation of Ripe Citrus Fruit Based on Machine 
Vision. Guangdong Agric. Sci. 2019, 46, 156–161. 
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual au-
thor(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to 
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content. 
