Please cite this paper as:
D. Fusaro, F. Magistri, J. Behley, A. Pretto, C. Stachniss, ”Horticultural temporal fruit monitoring via 3D instance segmentation and re-identification using
colored point clouds,” in Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, Volume 247, 2026, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2026.111723
Horticultural Temporal Fruit Monitoring via 3D Instance Segmentation and
Re-Identification using Colored Point Clouds
Daniel Fusaro
Federico Magistri
Jens Behley
Alberto Pretto
Cyrill Stachniss
Abstract— Accurate and consistent fruit monitoring over
time is a key step toward automated agricultural production
systems. However, this task is inherently difficult due to varia-
tions in fruit size, shape, occlusion, orientation, and the dynamic
nature of orchards where fruits may appear or disappear
between observations. In this article, we propose a novel method
for fruit instance segmentation and re-identification on 3D
terrestrial point clouds collected over time. Our approach
directly operates on dense colored point clouds, capturing
fine-grained 3D spatial detail. We segment individual fruits
using a learning-based instance segmentation method applied
directly to the point cloud. For each segmented fruit, we extract
a compact and discriminative descriptor using a 3D sparse
convolutional neural network. To track fruits across different
times, we introduce an attention-based matching network that
associates fruits with their counterparts from previous sessions.
Matching is performed using a probabilistic assignment scheme,
selecting the most likely associations across time. We evaluate
our approach on real-world datasets of strawberries and
apples, demonstrating that it outperforms existing methods
in both instance segmentation and temporal re-identification,
enabling robust and precise fruit monitoring across complex
and dynamic orchard environments.
Keywords = Agricultural Robotics, 3D Fruit Tracking, In-
stance Segmentation, Deep Learning , Point Clouds, Sparse
Convolutional Networks, Temporal Monitoring
I. INTRODUCTION
The challenge of meeting the growing demand for food
requires advances in agricultural practices with a focus
on efficiency and sustainability. Autonomous robots offer
new possibilities to automate labor-intensive tasks such as
crop monitoring and management. Such systems have the
potential to improve agricultural production systems and can
enable continuous and large-scale monitoring [1], [2]. In
particular, these technologies support phenotyping, the pro-
cess of evaluating plant characteristics by providing precise,
high-throughput assessments and surpassing the limitations
of traditional manual methods [3], [4]. This shift towards
automated phenotyping represents a critical step forward in
optimizing crop selection and improving crop yield. Tempo-
ral matching, or fruit re-identification, combined with accu-
rate instance segmentation, enables tracking the development
of single fruits over time, supporting the analysis of growth
patterns and estimation of maturation rates. To enable such
monitoring, the perception system is essential to ensure a
reliable visual association over time.
D. Fusaro and A. Pretto are with the University of Padua, Italy.
F. Magistri, J. Behley, and C. Stachniss are with the Center for Robotics,
University of Bonn, Germany. () C. Stachniss is additionally with the
Department of Engineering Science at the University of Oxford, UK, and
with the Lamarr Institute for Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence,
Germany.
time
week 1
week 3
week 2
harvested
fruits
dropped
fruits
Fig. 1: Fruit re-identification on three point clouds acquired at
three different points in time. Fruit instances are first segmented
using an instance segmentation method, then they are temporally
matched with fruit instances of a previous data collection (e.g.,
matching fruits recorded in week t with fruits from week t + 1).
Blue bounding boxes ( ) indicate matched fruit instances, while
red bounding boxes ( ) indicate unmatched fruits (e.g., harvested,
dropped or newly appeared).
In this article, we aim to recognize and track object
instances, specifically fruits, using real, colored point clouds
acquired by a high-resolution LiDAR scanner. The goal is
to identify, segment, and temporally match individual fruits
at different points in time within the 3D space. 2D image-
based approaches [5], [6], [7], [8], [9] lack the 3D structural,
depth, and spatial information offered by the point clouds. In
contrast, point clouds lack a regular grid structure, making
it difficult to apply traditional image processing techniques.
The challenge is to process these sparse and irregular data
to detect and associate individual fruits, which may vary in
size, shape, orientation, and occlusion levels and may be
harvested or newly grown.
Once fruit instances have been segmented, the temporal
re-identification task involves recognizing and matching the
same fruit instances across different point clouds captured
at different points in time or from different viewpoints.
This task shares challenges with object re-identification
and temporal association in dynamic 3D scenes, and is
conceptually related to loop closures in SLAM [10] and
visual place recognition [11] systems, which typically rely
on uniquely identifiable landmarks. In the context of fruit
re-identification, there are no unique traits that make fruits
easily distinguishable. As depicted in Fig. 1, fruits can be
very similar, tightly packed, and their pose can change
significantly over time, causing trivial solutions based on
This paper has been accepted for publication in Computers and Electronics in Agriculture
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2026.111723
arXiv:2411.07799v3  [cs.CV]  8 Apr 2026

relative position to fail.
The main contribution of this article is a novel method
for accurately performing fruit instance segmentation and
re-identification on terrestrial point clouds captured at dif-
ferent points in time, based on a learned descriptor en-
coder and an attentive matcher. We exploit dense high-
precision point clouds recorded with a high-precision Faro
laser scanner, which enables fine-grained spatial detail in
3D object representation. Although these sensors are not
commonly employed in robotic applications, their capability
to scan detailed environments has recently garnered attention,
leading to their integration into robotic systems [12]. We
segment fruits using a learning-based instance segmentation,
which infers fruit instances directly from the point cloud.
Each fruit is then processed by a 3D sparse convolutional
neural network to extract a compact, discriminative descrip-
tor. Then, we match each fruit with its corresponding instance
from a previous data collection by using their descriptors
and an attention-based matching module. To handle the
possibility of a no-match scenario, where a query fruit is
identified as a new instance, we represent it using a specific
descriptor. We then predict a probability distribution over the
candidate fruits from a previous data collection, explicitly
including a no-match class. Each query fruit is subsequently
matched with the previous instance that has the highest
predicted probability, using a greedy assignment to determine
associations.
In sum, we make two key claims: (i) our approach is
able to identify fruits in point clouds using an instance
segmentation method; (ii) it outperforms baseline approaches
on the instance segmentation and re-identification tasks using
real-world 3D data. These claims are supported by the
paper and our experimental evaluation. Using 3D data and
sparse convolution neural networks, our method significantly
enhances the effectiveness and scalability of object-level
segmentation and temporal association in sparse point clouds.
It outperforms baseline approaches and offers new capabili-
ties for automated monitoring in dynamic 3D environments,
contributing to the broader field of 3D pattern recognition.
The implementation of our fruit matching method is
publicly available at https://github.com/PRBonn/IRIS3D.
II. RELATED WORKS
Our work intersects several research areas: instance seg-
mentation, plant phenotyping, and temporal object matching.
We begin by reviewing 2D and 3D instance segmentation
methods, including both general-purpose approaches and
those specifically designed for agricultural applications. We
then discuss image-based and 3D plant phenotyping tech-
niques focused on extracting structural traits from crops.
Finally, we review temporal matching techniques for tracking
objects over time, a critical task in agricultural 3D data
analysis.
Instance segmentation on 2D images: General instance
segmentation, the task of segmenting individual objects
within a scene, has been extensively studied in the context
of 2D images. In this domain, the Mask R-CNN [13] archi-
tecture has emerged as one of the most popular methods.
It is a deep learning architecture that extends the object
detection process by adding a parallel branch that predicts
segmentation masks, allowing precise localization of object
boundaries. It has been applied to several fruit instance
segmentation tasks on images [5], [6], [7], [8]. Unlike the
standard Mask R-CNN, Weikuan et al. [9] implement an
anchor-free inference pipeline intended to make the model
more stable and easily applicable to other green fruits without
hyper-parameter tuning.
Instance segmentation on RGB-D images:
While 2D
image-based instance segmentation methods have shown
promising results, they often struggle with occlusions and
overlapping objects, which are common in agricultural en-
vironments. To address these challenges, some approaches
have incorporated depth information from RGB-D images.
Ge et al. [14] adopts Mask R-CNN [13] to segment and
localize fruits in RGB-D images. Kang et al. [15] propose
DaSNet-v2, a multi-task network that jointly performs de-
tection and instance segmentation on fruits, and semantic
segmentation on branches, in RGB-D images collected in ap-
ple orchards. It applies feature pyramid networks and atrous
spatial pyramid pooling to effectively capture multi-scale
features and context information. Tang et al. [16] propose a
high-precision apple instance segmentation method based on
an improved SOLOv2 [17] and EfficientNet [18] backbone
using RGB-D images. In scenarios involving overlapping or
occluded apples, authors apply a lightweight spatial atten-
tion module to improve segmentation accuracy. Magistri et
al. [19] exploit shape completion and differentiable rendering
techniques to estimate the 3D shape of a target fruit together
with its pose even under strong occlusions from a single
RGB-D image. RGB-D images provide additional spatial in-
formation that can help disambiguate overlapping objects and
improve segmentation accuracy in complex scenes, but they
still lack the full 3D structural detail that point clouds can
offer. The point clouds generated from RGB-D images are
typically sparse and noisy, which can limit the effectiveness
of 3D instance segmentation methods.
Instance segmentation on 3D point clouds: The task of
instance segmentation becomes significantly more challeng-
ing when applied to 3D data such as point clouds obtained
using LiDAR sensors. Most methods are based on deep
learning and rely on the use of 3D convolutional neural
networks (CNNs) to learn features from the point cloud data.
Although they can be trained end-to-end, they often require
a large amount of labeled data to achieve good performance.
Data-augmentation techniques [20] can be used to artificially
increase the size of the training dataset, but the lack of
large-scale datasets for 3D instance segmentation, especially
for agricultural robotics, remains a challenge. Most neural
network-based approaches for instance segmentation on point
clouds [21], [22], [23], [24], [25], [26], [27], [28], [29],
[30] voxelize the 3D point cloud to preserve topological
relations and use sparse convolutions [31] to reduce the
memory consumption. Schult et al. [23] proposed Mask3D.

Based on transformer decoders [32], it leverages learned
instance queries together with point-wise features to directly
predict semantic instance masks, eliminating the need for
handcrafted voting schemes or grouping heuristics. A multi-
scale, sparse convolution-based backbone, along with a query
refinement mechanism, contributed to its state-of-the-art per-
formance on several benchmarks at the time of its intro-
duction. Marcuzzi et al. [24] proposed MaskPLS, tailored
for autonomous driving scenarios. Similarly to Mask3D,
their approach incorporates a multi-scale sparse convolu-
tional backbone, a query refinement strategy, and transformer
decoders. The inclusion of intermediate losses and other
architectural choices further enhanced the effectiveness of
the method. Superpoint transformer, introduced by Robert et
al. [25], is a fast and light-weight state-of-the-art approach
for indoor and outdoor point clouds. It is based on a
pre-processing step using handcrafted features, multi-scale
superpoints generation, and graph-attention convolutional
networks. Spherical Mask, suggested by Shin et al. [26], is
also built on a 3D backbone that utilizes sparse convolutions.
A voting module is used to generate instance queries, after
which a 3D polygon, represented by points and rays, is
estimated for each query. To enable fine-grained clustering,
the method predicts point-wise offsets that adjust the spatial
distribution of points around each proposal. Despite these
advances, to the best of our knowledge, there is no work
that has specifically addressed 3D fruit instance segmentation
directly on 3D point clouds. Closely related, Kang et al. [33]
fuse point clouds and images to perform fruit localization
using a single-stage instance segmentation network.
Image and 3D plant phenotyping: Image-based phenotyp-
ing for automated plant monitoring has become increasingly
important in numerous agricultural settings. Computer vi-
sion, aided by deep learning techniques, has been applied
to different phenotyping-oriented agricultural contexts [34],
[35], [36], [37], [38], [39], [40], [41], [42], [43]. Although
image-based phenotyping has garnered considerable atten-
tion, there are relatively few studies that proposed methods
for plant phenotyping using 3D data. Hao et al. [44] analyzes
and evaluates the degree of wilting of cotton varieties in
point clouds. Boogaard et al. [45] investigates the problem of
measurement of internode length in cucumbers by comparing
estimates from 3D point clouds with estimates from images.
A key factor contributing to the gap between 2D and 3D
analysis lies in the limitations of the sensor. For example,
conventional sensors used on robots, such as 3D LiDARs
and RGB-D cameras, typically offer a 3D spatial resolution
that is insufficiently detailed for agricultural environments.
One potential solution is to utilize high-precision laser scan-
ners to generate dense, colored, and highly accurate point
clouds. Such data have also been used in the past. For
example, Rodriguez-Sanchez et al. [46] demonstrate the use
of a ground robot to automate the acquisition of data from
terrestrial laser scanners in a breeding field.
Temporal matching: There are also a limited number
of studies that focus on temporal fruit matching, i.e.,
the problem of finding fruit correspondences over time.
Chebrolu et al. [47] exploit a skeletal structure of the
complete
plant
to
compute
correspondences
between
the same plant over two weeks to estimate leaf growth
parameters. Riccardi et al. [48] propose a histogram
descriptor
that
uses
Euclidean
distance
measurements
between neighboring fruits. For a given target fruit, their
method divides the surrounding 3D space into angular
sectors and counts the number of fruits within each sector to
build a descriptor that can be used for temporal matching.
Lobefaro et al. [49] investigate the problem of 4D data
association of growing pepper plants in a greenhouse by
combining 3D RGB-D SLAM to build local plant models
and visual place recognition to create correspondences over
time. The same authors, in a follow-up work [50], employ
deep-learning-based
feature
descriptors
and
geometric
information to obtain matches between 3D points and track
the evolution of plant traits’ over time.
In contrast to previous work, we rely on MinkPanoptic (a
core component module of MaskPLS [24]) for our instance
segmentation method. Based on such a segmentation, we
can address different downstream tasks, such as plant and
fruit phenotyping. We use a learned descriptor, based on
3D sparse convolution, to automatically learn and extract
relevant features from raw data through training, allowing it
to adapt to complex patterns and variations in the data. Also,
our learned descriptor can adapt to new and unseen data
without requiring explicit re-engineering of feature extraction
methods. We perform descriptor matching leveraging an
attention-based network that predicts a probability distribu-
tion over the pool of candidate matchings, also considering
the no-match case.
III. OUR APPROACH
We aim to track fruits using real 3D data acquired by a
high-resolution LiDAR scanner. We present a novel method
for accurately performing fruit instance segmentation and re-
identification on point clouds captured at different points in
time.
A. Fruit Instance Segmentation Module
Consider a colored point cloud P in which each point is
given by its 3D position pi ∈R3 and its RGB color ki. We
want to segment P into a set F =
{Fi}K
i=1 of
K fruit
instances and a set B of background points. Each Fi ⊆P
can be described by the pair (ci, ri), where ci ∈R3 is the
center of the fruit, given by:
ci =
1
|Fi|
X
pj∈Fi
pj,
(1)
and ri is the radius of the smallest sphere, centered at ci,
containing all the points of the fruit. Note that ci does not
necessarily correspond to a point in the point cloud.
We use MinkPanoptic [24], a learning-based instance
segmentation method, to obtain fruit instances in a point
cloud. We selected this method empirically, as it consistently
outperformed others in our experiments, particularly in the

add
query fruit desc.
Transformer Encoder
positional
encoding
repeat
N times
concat.
Linear
Linear
matching
probability
relative 3D position
btw query fruit and
database fruits
Matching Module
1
0
fruit descriptor of
the fruit 
Global Avg
Pooling
Batch Norm
ReLU
Fruit Descriptor
Extraction
Voxelization
voxel size 
Softmax
Threshold
append
no match
descriptor
 no match desc.
add
Batch Norm
LeakyReLU
 fruit's support
point cloud ( 
 )
Leaky ReLU
MinkConv
MinkConv
add
repeat
convolution
(stride 2)
feature
expansion
convolution with
residual
connection
initial
feature
extraction
MinkPanoptic
point cloud
pred. fruit instances
and background points
Fruit Instance Segmentation
MinkConv
MinkConv
MinkConv
MinkConv
MinkConv
MinkConv
matching
candidate
Fig. 2: Pipeline of our approach. Fruit instance segmentation provides
K fruit instance masks F =
{Fi}K
i=1 using a colored point
cloud P. The fruit descriptor extraction module processes a fruit’s support point cloud, F′
i, and computes the fruit descriptor, di. It
initially voxelizes the input point cloud, then a MinkowskiNet [21] encoder processes the voxelized point cloud by leveraging sparse 3D
convolutions. A final global average pooling aggregates the features of all voxels to compute the descriptor. The matching module matches
a query descriptor di with a set of descriptors Dt−1 of fruits that belong to a different point in time.
context of the task presented in this article, where training
data are limited (see Sec. IV).
Let Pf ⊆P be the subset of P that was labeled as
fruit. Then, for each point in Pf, the method predicts a
3D vector representing the offset of the point from the
center of the fruit instance to which it belongs. We add
the predicted offsets to Pf to obtain the point cloud
Po.
We determine fruit instances F by clustering Po using the
mean shift [51] algorithm. Clustering-based methods gen-
erally achieve better performance than end-to-end instance
segmentation approaches [30].
B. Fruit Descriptor Extraction Module
The fruit descriptor extraction module processes fruit
instances obtained with the instance segmentation method
described in Sec. III-A and computes their descriptors. Given
a fruit Fi and its center ci, we define with Si ⊆P the support
of Fi with fixed radius s:
Si = {(p, k) ∈P | ∥p −ci∥2 ≤s}.
(2)
The usage of Si instead of Fi enables the extraction of the
descriptor to also account for the surroundings of the fruit Fi.
We want the descriptor to be as discriminative as possible
between different fruits, but as similar as possible for the
point clouds of the same fruit taken at different points in
time. In addition, the descriptor should be robust to rotation,
shape, and color variation. Fruits often change their orienta-
tion during growth, but their shape also changes substantially.
The color changes both due to the growth of the fruit and
due to the greenhouse’s internal light change (position of the
sensor, weather conditions, humidity, artificial light, etc.).
On top of Fig. 2, the architecture of the fruit descriptor
extraction module is depicted. First, the fruit support point
cloud Si is voxelized using a fixed voxel size v. Then, a
MinkowskiNet [21] encoder processes the voxelized point
cloud by leveraging sparse 3D convolutions, capturing multi-
scale features through a deep hierarchical structure.
The encoder is composed of multiple stages that pro-
gressively downsample the input spatial dimensions while
increasing the number of feature channels. It begins with
two sparse 3D convolutional layers, each followed by batch
normalization (BN) [52] and a ReLU, responsible for the
initial feature extraction from the input sparse tensor. Then,
L identical blocks sequentially process the sparse tensor.
Each block consists of three parts. The first part performs
downsampling (through a convolution with a stride of 2),
reducing spatial resolution while expanding the receptive
field. The second part comprises a main convolutional path
that applies two sequential 3D sparse convolutions with
a 3 × 3 kernel, BN, and ReLU activation, expanding the
feature channels, and a secondary path consisting of a single
convolution with 1 × 1 kernel that matches the dimensions
of the input to the output, followed by BN. The third part
is very similar to the second one, except that the secondary
path consists of a simple residual connection.
After the L identical blocks, we apply a global average
pooling, which aggregates the features across all the voxels,
obtaining the fruit’s descriptor di ∈Rz.
By computing the descriptors of all fruits F, we build a
set of descriptors D = {d1, . . . , d|F|} where di represents
the descriptor of fruit Fi.
C. Fruit Descriptors Matching Module
The fruit descriptors matching module operates on sets
of descriptors of fruits that belong to different time steps.
Let Dt be the set of descriptors of all fruits segmented
at time t, i.e., Ft = {Ft
1, . . . , Ft
A}, and Dt−1 the set

of descriptors of all fruits segmented at time t −1, i.e.,
Ft−1 = {Ft−1
1
, . . . , Ft−1
B
}.
We want to match the descriptors in Dt with the corre-
sponding descriptors in Dt−1. Moreover, we also want to
label new or simply not visible fruits descriptors with a no-
match label, ∅. Formally, we want to compute the association
vector y = [y1, . . . , yA]⊤with yi ∈{∅, 1, . . . , B}.
Let Ft
q ∈Ft be a query fruit point cloud at time t
and dt
q ∈Dt be its descriptor. To infer yq, the matching mod-
ule computes the probability distribution p(y | Dt, Dt−1).
The matching module processes the descriptor dt
q and the
sets of descriptors Dt and Dt−1. It also exploits the relative
position T ∈RB×3 between the query fruit and the fruits
in Ft−1.
Fig. 2 below depicts the architecture of the matching
module. First, dt
q is concatenated to each descriptor in Dt−1,
obtaining the matrix G ∈RB×2z To focus the module on
the neighbors of the query fruit, we add a fixed positional
encoding PE to G obtaining Ge:
Ge = G + PE(T).
(3)
We compute PE : R3 7→Rz as a function of the relative
position matrix T applied to each row as in Mildenhall et
al. [53], i.e., we apply it to each individual coordinate.
To let the matching module account for the no-match case,
we artificially create a new row in Ge representing the no-
match case. The new element is a descriptor with all zero
elements and is appended to Ge as the last row, obtaining
the matrix Gp ∈R(B+1)×2z.
A linear layer, followed by BN and leaky ReLU, maps Gp
to Gl ∈R(B+1)×l, and a transformer encoder layer [32],
followed by BN and leaky ReLU, processes Gl to ob-
tain G′l ∈R(B+1)×l. A final linear layer maps G′l to
the prediction logits vector pl ∈RB+1, which are then
normalized to a probability distribution pn by applying a
softmax. To impose the assumption that fruits do not move,
between scans, more than h ∈R meters, we mask pn by
setting the probability of fruits whose center is at a distance
greater than h to 0, obtaining p.
The predicted matching fruit’s index yq is given by:
yq =
(
i,
if i < B + 1
∅
if i = B + 1 , with i = argmax
i
(p).
(4)
Using the prediction yi for each fruit in Ft
i , we can
associate each fruit in Ft
i with fruits in Ft−1
i
with the
vector y.
D. Batch Matching
When
matching
more
than
one
fruit,
we
post-
process y using a greedy matching algorithm. Specifically,
let H∗
∈
RA×(B+1) be the matrix representing all
the probability distributions predicted with the matching
module, associating all the fruits in Ft with those in Ft−1.
The element H∗ij in the row i and column j ≤B represents
the probability that the fruit Ft
i matches with Ft−1
j
. The
last column of H∗encodes the no-match probability of each
fruit in Ft. In addition, each row i of H∗corresponds to
the vector p computed for Ft
i .
We compute the vector of associations y using a greedy
approach, starting by matching the most probable fruits first
and removing them from the pool of candidates. This process
continues until all fruits in Ft have been matched or labeled
as unmatched.
E. Loss Function
We trained the fruit instance segmentation method follow-
ing Marcuzzi et al. [24], using a loss function Lins composed
of two terms:
Lins = Lsem + λoffLoff.
(5)
The first term, Lsem, accounts for the semantic segmen-
tation of fruits and is a weighted sum of a cross-entropy
loss Lce and a Lov´asz-Softmax loss [54] LLov´asz:
Lsem = λceLce + λLovLLov´asz.
(6)
The second term, Loff, measures the discrepancy between
the predicted and ground truth offsets. It is given by:
Loff =
1
|Pf|
|Pf |
X
j=1
∥oj −ˆoj∥1,
(7)
where oj ∈R3 is the j-th predicted offset and ˆoj ∈R3 is
the corresponding ground truth offset.
We train our descriptor extraction and re-identification
method end-to-end by batch matching with a weighted loss
function, Lm, composed of two terms:
Lm = Lce + λinjLinj.
(8)
The first, Lce, computes the cross-entropy loss between
the ground truth matrix ˆH and the predicted matrix H∗:
Lce =
A
X
i=1
B+1
X
j=1
−ˆHij log(H∗
ij).
(9)
The second, Linj, forces the network to learn a bijective
function. In other words, the network should map distinct
fruits of Ft to distinct fruits of Ft−1 and vice versa, avoiding
assigning multiple fruits from a particular set to the same
fruit in the other set. The loss Linj ignores the fruit without
match and is weighted by λinj in the final loss computation
Lm. In particular, we compute Linj as follows:
Linj = λinj(Lrow + Lcol),
(10)
where
Lrow =
A
X
i=1

(
B
X
j=1
H∗ij) −1

(11)
and
Lcol =
B
X
j=1
(
A
X
i=1
H∗ij) −1
.
(12)

IV. EXPERIMENTAL EVALUATION
The main focus of this work is a novel method for fruit
monitoring based on fruit instance segmentation and re-
identification on point clouds recorded at different moments.
We present our experiments to show the capabilities of
our method, focusing on high-precision point clouds of fruits
such as strawberries and apples. We recorded the strawberry
point clouds with a terrestrial laser scanner in a greenhouse,
while apple point clouds were obtained from RGB images
using photogrammetric reconstruction. The results of our
experiments support our claims: (i) our approach is able to
identify fruits in point clouds using an instance segmenta-
tion method; (ii) it outperforms baseline approaches on the
instance segmentation and re-identification tasks using real-
world data.
A. Dataset
To evaluate the performance of our instance segmentation
method, we conduct experiments on two datasets. The dataset
presented by Riccardi et al. [48], hereafter referred to as the
”strawberry dataset”, which serves as the primary benchmark
and is also used for the downstream re-identification task.
We include the PFuji-Size dataset [55] only for instance
segmentation comparative analysis against baseline methods.
These datasets vary in complexity and content (the first with
strawberries, the second with apples), allowing us to assess
both the robustness and generalizability of the proposed
approach.
Notably, the colored point clouds in both datasets are
largely free of occlusions. This is achieved through multi-
view integration: in the strawberry dataset, point clouds
are obtained by aligning multiple point clouds acquired
from different perspectives, while in the PFuji-Size dataset,
point clouds are obtained using multi-view stereo algorithms
applied to RGB images acquired from different viewpoints.
For more details about the datasets acquisition, please refer
to their original works (Gen´e-Mola et al. [55], Riccardi et
al. [48]).
For the re-identification experiments, we focus exclusively
on the strawberry dataset, as it provides the necessary an-
notations required for this task, i.e., instance segmentation
coherence in time. This dataset consists of point clouds
collected with a high-precision Faro Focus3D-X130 laser
scanner in a commercial greenhouse, containing the same
row of strawberries at 3 different points in time, each
separated by approximately one week. Let us call them P1,
P2, and P3. Each point cloud is associated with a set of
ground truth fruit annotations (respectively,
ˆ
F1,
ˆ
F2, and
ˆ
F3, containing 616, 556 and 159 strawberries). Then, the
fruits in
ˆ
F2 are associated with the fruit in
ˆ
F1. Let ˆy2,1
be the ground truth vector of associations. Similarly, fruits
in
ˆ
F3 are associated with fruits in
ˆ
F2 with the vector of
associations ˆy3,2. In ˆy2,1, 56 strawberries from ˆ
F2 are not
matched to those in ˆ
F1. In ˆy3,2, 5 strawberries from ˆ
F3 are
not matched to ˆ
F2. See details in Tab. I.
PFuji-Size [55] is a publicly available dataset designed
for the detection and sizing of fruits in agricultural settings.
Timepoint
Point
Annot.
# Annot.
Matched
# Unmatched
Cloud
With
t = 1
P1
ˆ
F1
616
–
–
t = 2
P2
ˆ
F2
556
ˆ
F1
56
t = 3
P3
ˆ
F3
159
ˆ
F2
5
TABLE I: Overview of the strawberry dataset. Each point cloud
Pt corresponds to a different acquisition time. Ground truth fruit
annotations are denoted as ˆF t.
It comprises high-resolution RGB images and 3D point
clouds derived from photogrammetry of Fuji apple trees,
captured under field conditions. Each scene is annotated
with ground truth fruit instance descriptions (center and
radius). It is divided into two main acquisitions, the first
captured in 2018 and the second captured in 2020, both
featuring three Fuji trees. We used the 2018 acquisition for
training and validation, and the 2020 acquisition for testing.
While manually inspecting the annotations of the dataset,
we noticed that some fruits were missing from the first two
trees of the 2020 collection. For this reason, we only used
the third tree’s fruit annotations for testing.
B. Metrics
To evaluate the instance segmentation capabilities we
use as metrics panoptic quality (PQ) [56], consisting of
segmentation quality (SQ) and recognition quality (RQ), and
intersection over union (IoU). IoU is defined by
IoU =
1
|TP|
X
(p,g)∈T P
|p ∩g|
|p ∪g|,
(13)
where p is the set of points belonging to a predicted instance,
g is the set of points belonging to a ground truth instance,
and TP is the set of pairs of predicted and ground truth
instances matched (with |p∩g|
|p∪g| ≥0.5 as commonly done).
The metrics PQ, SQ, and RQ are defined as
PQ =
P
(p,g)∈T Pseg IoU(p, g)
|TPseg|
|
{z
}
segmentation quality (SQ)
·
|TPseg|
|TPseg| + 1
2|FPseg| + 1
2|FNseg|
|
{z
}
recognition quality (RQ)
,
(14)
where true positives (TPseg), false positives (FPseg), and
false negatives (FNseg) represent matched pairs of segments,
unmatched predicted segments, and unmatched ground truth
segments, respectively [57].
To evaluate matching performance, we first compute the
following metrics: correct matching (CM, correctly matching
two strawberries), mismatching (MM, correctly detecting a
strawberry as a matching one but relating it with the wrong
corresponding strawberry), false matching (FM, incorrectly
labeling a no-matching strawberry with a strawberry), true
negative (TN, correctly labeling a strawberry with the no-
match label), and false negative (FN, incorrectly labeling
a matching strawberry with the no-match label). Based on
these, we calculate the following scores:
F1p =
2CM
2CM + MM + FM + FN,
(15)

F1n =
2TN
2TN + FM + FN,
(16)
mF1 = F1p + F1n
2
,
(17)
The standard F1 score measures the goodness of the pre-
dictive capacity of a model, but focuses only on the positive
class. By averaging the F1p and F1n scores in Eq. (17), we
get an indicator for both, mF1.
In our experiments, we trained the re-identification module
to maximize the mF1 score in the validation set, in order to
balance performance between correct matching and correct
no-match predictions.
C. Implementation Details
We trained the two tasks, i.e., instance segmentation and
re-identification, separately, and in particular, we trained for
the re-identification task only using the strawberry ground
truth fruit annotations. This procedure enables a clear separa-
tion between the two modules, allowing for easy integration
and replacement of the segmentation component with alter-
native solutions. This flexibility makes our method highly
adaptable and appealing for various applications.
We trained from scratch both instance segmentation meth-
ods, MinkPanoptic (ours) and Superpoint Transformer, and
on both datasets.
In the strawberry dataset, we trained MinkPanoptic using
an initial learning rate of 0.01 linearly decreased, at each
epoch, with a decay coefficient of 0.97. In the apple dataset,
we used an initial learning rate of 0.03 linearly decreased, at
each epoch, with a decay coefficient of 0.97. In both datasets,
we trained Superpoint Transformer using the default learning
rate parameters, i.e., an initial value of 0.01 with a cosine
annealing scheduler with warmup.
We used the same, standard data augmentation techniques
for both methods, such as applying a random yaw rotation,
X or Y axis flip, X or Y scale change (with a uniformly
random scaling factor in the range [0.97, 1.03] for strawberry
and [0.95, 1.05] for apples), and point jittering (adding per-
point noise with a normal distribution centered at zero and
with variance 0.03 m for strawberry and 0.1 m for apples).
For MinkPanoptic, we optimized the bandwidth values
using the validation set, finding the best value to be
of 0.01125 m for the strawberry dataset and 0.035 m for the
apple dataset (see Sec. VI-A).
Also our descriptor extraction and matching module
is trained from scratch. In the loss function, we used
as weights λce = 2, λLov = 10, λoff = 10 and λinj = 0.08.
We set the support radius s = 0.2 m and the voxel size
v = 5 · 10−4 m for the fruit descriptor extraction module and
the maximum matching distance h = 0.05 m for the fruit de-
scriptor matching module based on empirical evaluation. We
used L = 4 layers using hidden dimensions 8, 8, 16, 16, and
64 (8 is the number of channels produced by the convolution
of the initial feature extraction, while the subsequent are the
produced number of channels for each layer). We set the
input channel dimension of the matching module transformer
dataset
method
class
IoU
RQ
SQ
PQ
strawberry
superpoint
transformer
background
97.1
100
97.1
97.1
strawberry
48.3
48.8
79.2
38.7
average
72.7
74.4
88.1
67.9
MinkPanoptic
(ours)
background
98.9
100
98.9
98.9
strawberry
80.9
75.8
84.3
63.8
average
89.9
87.9
91.6
81.4
PFuji-Size
superpoint
transformer
background
92.5
100
92.2
92.2
apple
39.4
49.2
71.0
34.9
average
65.9
74.6
81.6
63.6
MinkPanoptic
(ours)
background
94.6
100
96.6
96.6
apple
50.1
52.1
78.3
40.7
average
72.3
76.0
87.4
68.7
average
superpoint
transformer
background
94.8
100
94.7
94.7
fruit
43.9
49
75.1
36.8
average
69.3
74.5
84.9
65.8
MinkPanoptic
(ours)
background
96.8
100
97.8
97.8
fruit
65.5
64.0
81.3
52.3
average
81.1
82.0
89.5
75.1
TABLE II: Comparison of Superpoint Transformer [25] and our
MinkPanoptic on the instance segmentation task. All values are
in %.
layer l to 512, the feedforward dimension to 1024, and the
number of heads to 8.
We trained the descriptor extraction and matching module
with a fixed learning rate of 3 · 10−4. We augmented the
dataset by applying to each input fruit point cloud a random
rotation in the range [-30°, 30°] on each of the three axes,
a point jittering added per point drawn from a normal
distribution centered at zero and with variance 7 · 10−4 m,
and a color jittering, modifying each RGB channel with
a random gaussian noise drawn from a normal distribution
centered at zero and with variance 0.05.
To train the fruit descriptor extraction and re-identification
model, we manually divided the training set
  ˆ
F1,
ˆ
F2,
and ˆy2,1

into two non-overlapping sets, grouping corre-
sponding fruits based on their 3D position. We used the first
group as a training set, containing approximately 80 % of
strawberries, and the second as a validation set.
D. Instance Segmentation Results
We
compared
our
instance
segmentation
method,
MinkPanoptic, with multiple baselines and on two fruit
point cloud datasets. Surprisingly, current state-of-the-art
instance segmentation methods struggle when trained with
small or very small data, providing poor results in a
seemingly simple task (see Sec. IV-E). Only Superpoint
Transformer [25] was able to accurately segment strawberry
or apple instances, and for this reason, we only report the
comparison with this baseline.
In the strawberry dataset, we trained on the first two point
clouds, i.e., P1 as the actual training set and P2 as the
validation set, and tested on the third point cloud, i.e., P3.
Due to the pre-processing requirements of the Superpoint
Transformer, we constructed a dataset by extracting 800
annotated point clouds for training and 200 for validation
from the three original point clouds. Each sample was
generated by cropping around a randomly selected seed point

within the strawberry row, resulting in segments 0.15 m wide,
with a voxel size of 0.001 m. In contrast, MinkPanoptic was
trained using the same number of point clouds, but with a
larger crop width of 0.3 m and a finer voxel size of 0.0005 m,
made possible by its lower memory usage, particularly during
training.
The results are summarized in Tab. II. Across all datasets,
MinkPanoptic consistently achieves the highest performance
among the compared instance segmentation methods. The
improvement is particularly evident in the strawberry dataset,
especially for the strawberry class, where the gains are
substantial. This may be attributed to the spherical nature of
the fruit, which aligns well with MinkPanoptic’s architectural
strengths, specifically, its offset prediction mechanism and
mean shift clustering, both of which are well-suited to delin-
eating compact, rounded instances. MinkPanoptic also shows
superior performance in the apple dataset, further confirming
its robustness across different fruit types. In particular, all
methods achieve a recognition quality of 100.0 % for the
background class, indicating that all ground truth background
points were correctly predicted as background points in
these regions. In general, substantial improvements in panop-
tic quality and intersection over union for the fruit class
highlight how MinkPanoptic’s design and training strategy
make it particularly effective for high-precision segmentation
in agricultural scenarios. We show qualitative examples of
the segmentation masks predicted by MinkPanoptic on the
strawberry dataset in Fig. 3 and on the Pfuji-Size dataset
in Fig. 4.
E. Discussion: Instance Segmentation state-of-the-art per-
formance
Surprisingly, current state-of-the-art instance segmenta-
tion methods (i.e., [23], [24], [26], [27], [28]) struggle
when trained with small or very small data, providing
poor results in a seemingly simple task, such as straw-
berry or apple segmentation. There are many reasons why.
Most methods are best suited for LiDAR point clouds,
e.g. P3Former [27], exploiting their cylindrical space dis-
tribution. Methods like Mask3D [23], MaskPLS [24], One-
Former3D [28], and Spherical Mask [26] suffer in this
task due to their reliance on voxelization, which can lead
to the loss of small object details during downsampling.
Using small voxels to preserve these details dramatically
increases computational costs, making it impractical for
our application, while increasing the voxel size to lower
the computational complexity results in missing the small
objects. Moreover, the multi-resolution technique of these
methods, usually helpful, deteriorates the performance on
dense, small-scale datasets like strawberries, and the learned
queries might collapse to similar representations, failing to
differentiate between individual fruits. We made every effort
to include these state-of-the-art methods in our comparison;
however, due to the severe limitations described above, their
performance was so poor that they failed to produce even
basic, usable segmentation results on our datasets.
predicted instances
false positive
false negative
ground truth instances
Fig. 3: Three qualitative examples of instance segmentation. On
top is the ground truth, while below is the predicted segmentation.
Identical instance color between the two rows indicates correct
detections with at least 50 % IoU overlap. False positives (high-
lighted with fuchsia circles) are fruits that were not present in
the ground truth dataset (being too noisy to be clearly labeled) or
leaves that were incorrectly classified as fruits, while false negatives
(highlighted with yellow circles) are missed detections of fruits.
On the left and center, two situations in which false positives are
predominant. On the right, false negatives are predominant.
predicted instances
false negative
false positive
ground truth instances
original point cloud
Fig. 4: Instance segmentation results on the PFuji-Size apple
dataset. Although apparent occlusions are visible from this single
viewpoint, the 3D point cloud is obtained via multi-view RGB
fusion, which substantially reduces the single-view occlusions in the
reconstructed data. Identical instance color between the two rows
indicates correct detections with at least 50 % IoU overlap. False
positives are highlighted with fuchsia circles and false negatives
with yellow circles. On the left is the original point cloud, on
the center the ground truth instance segmentation, on the right the
predicted segmentation.

F. Re-identification Results
In this experiment, we evaluate the performance of our
approach in the re-identification task. It supports the claim
that our method can identify fruits in point clouds using
an instance segmentation method and outperforms baseline
approaches on the re-identification task using real-world data
collected in a greenhouse. We will only use the strawberry
dataset, as it provides the necessary annotations required for
this task. We match the fruit instance segmentation predicted
on P3 at the previous step with the ground fruit annotation
of P2. For comparison, we will also evaluate on ground truth
fruit annotations. To analyze robustness under varying IoU
conditions, we evaluate matching performance at multiple
thresholds ranging from 5 % to 30 %, with 5 % step, reflect-
ing increasingly strict requirements for spatial consistency
in 3D point clouds. Higher IoU thresholds select only the
predicted instances that are more similar to the ground
truth annotation, introducing many negative instances (false
positives from the instance segmentator), while lower IoU
thresholds also associate low-quality instance prediction with
ground truth annotation, reducing the number of negatives.
Using more than 30% IoU threshold would result in very few
matching instances, making the evaluation less meaningful.
Each ground truth instance is assigned the ID of the predicted
fruit instance with the highest IoU, provided that it exceeds
the considered threshold. All not matching predicted fruit
instances are assigned a new ID and thus labeled as negatives.
We consider as baseline methods a nearest neighbor ap-
proach fine-tuned with Optuna [58] as well as Riccardi et
al. [48]. We compare only with these two baselines because,
to the best of our knowledge, Riccardi et al. is the only
publicly available work addressing fruit re-identification in
point clouds, while the nearest neighbor approach is a simple
yet effective baseline. Also, Riccardi et al. demonstrated
superior capabilities compared to other traditional descriptor-
based matchings.
The first is purely based on the relative position between
the sets of fruits and matches them by linking a fruit Ft
i ∈Ft
with the fruit Ft−1
∗,NN ∈Ft−1 having the minimum Euclidean
distance from Ft
i . Formally:
Ft−1
∗,NN = argmin
j
∥ct
i −ct−1
j
∥2,
(18)
where ct
i, ct−1
j
are the center of the strawberries Ft
i , Ft−1
j
.
The fruits in Ft−1 can match only one fruit in Ft, and
vice versa. This method can match fruits, but cannot detect
the no-match case. For this reason, we used Optuna, an
open-source optimization framework, to find the optimal
threshold ϵ ∈R for which two fruits at a distance greater
than ϵ should be considered unmatchable. A fruit with no
matchable counterpart is then considered unmatched. In our
experiment, we maximized the mF1 score in the training
set and found the optimal value ϵ∗= 0.033 m. Riccardi et
al. [48] proposed a histogram descriptor based on the Eu-
clidean distance between neighboring fruits. Considering a
target fruit, they divide the 3D space around it into angular
sectors and count how many fruits fall in each sector. In our
experiments, we use the parameter setting suggested in the
original implementation.
We compare our re-identification approach with base-
lines using both the instance segmentation prediction of
MinkPanoptic and Superpoint Transformer. The results are
reported in Tab. III while in Fig. 7 a visualization of the
numerical results makes the comparison clearer. With the in-
stance segmentation provided by MinkPanoptic, our method
consistently achieves the highest performance across all
metrics in the test set using predicted instances, except when
using ground truth annotations. Our approach obtains an
average score mF1 of 65.1 %, outperforming the second-best
method by 9.8 %. The nearest neighbor approach generally
surpasses Riccardi et al. With the instance segmentation pro-
vided by Superpoint Transformer, our method consistently
achieves the highest performance across key metrics such as
F1n and mF1. In particular, it attains an average mF1 score
of 51.7 %, outperforming the second-best method by 5.9 %.
While the nearest neighbor baseline achieves the highest F1p,
it is generally more effective at correctly identifying positive
matches, likely due to its reliance on spatial proximity, an
advantage when instances remain near each other across
time steps. In contrast, our method excels in distinguish-
ing negative matches, a critical advantage given the large
number of negative pairs introduced by the relatively coarse
instance segmentation from Superpoint Transformer. This
balanced performance across both positive and negative
samples makes our approach particularly robust, yielding the
best overall results on this dataset.
In Fig. 5 and Fig. 6, we show qualitative results of
our re-identification method using the instance segmentation
predicted by MinkPanoptic. In Fig. 5, the re-identification is
almost perfect, with only two FMs and one FN. In Fig. 6,
the re-identification is less accurate, with several FMs, MMs,
and one FN. This is mainly due to the instance segmentation
errors, such as merged fruits (leading to the FNs on bottom
right) or false detections (leading to the FNs on bottom left).
Nonetheless, most detection faults are correctly handled by
our re-identification method with several TNs. Fig. 7 quanti-
tatively highlights the superior performance of our approach.
The radar plot of our method has always a greater area
with respect to the baselines when using MinkPanoptic’s
predictions. With SPT’s, the area is slightly smaller only on
the F1p radar plot, while the area is sharply larger on the
F1n and mF1 radar plots.
For a broader discussion of the results, the method’s
limitations and future directions, refer to Sec. VI-C.
V. COMPUTATIONAL EFFICIENCY AND RUNTIME
ANALYSIS
While the primary focus of this work is accuracy and
robustness, computational efficiency is an important prac-
tical consideration for agricultural monitoring systems. All
experiments were conducted on a workstation equipped with
an NVIDIA TITAN RTX GPU (24 GB memory) and an Intel
Core i9-10920X CPU @ 3.50 GHz.

predicted instances
ground truth instances
CM
FM
MM
TN
FN
Fig. 5: Fruit instance segmentation and re-identification using our method, in a good performance scenario. On the top are point clouds
from P3 that we match with the ground truth fruit annotations on P2 depicted below. From left to right: the original, colored point
clouds; the instance segmentation (ground truth for P2, predicted using MinkPanoptic for P3); the re-identification results. Green lines
indicate correct matches (CMs), red lines indicate false matches (FMs), orange lines indicate mismatches (MMs), green circles indicate
true no-matches (TNs) and red circles indicate false no-matches (FNs). Most matches are correct, with only two FMs and one FN. Best
viewed in color.

CM
FM
MM
TN
FN
ground truth instances
predicted instances
Fig. 6: Fruit instance segmentation and re-identification using our method, in a difficult scenario. On the top are point clouds from P3
that we match with the ground truth fruit annotations on P2 depicted below. From left to right: the original, colored point clouds; the
instance segmentation (ground truth for P2, predicted using MinkPanoptic for P3); the re-identification results. Green lines indicate
correct matches (CMs), red lines indicate false matches (FMs), orange lines indicate mismatches (MMs), green circles indicate true no-
matches (TNs) and red circles indicate false no-matches (*FNs). Many matches are correct, but there are also several FMs, MMs and one
FN. Best viewed in color.

IoU
level
using MinkPanoptic prediction
using SPT prediction
NN
Riccardi et al.
Ours
NN
Riccardi et al.
Ours
F1p
F1n
mF1
F1p
F1n
mF1
F1p
F1n
mF1
F1p
F1n
mF1
F1p
F1n
mF1
F1p
F1n
mF1
GT
84.7
75.0
79.9
92.6
0.0
46.3
76.4
51.4
63.9
84.7
75.0
79.9
92.6
0.0
46.3
76.4
51.4
63.9
@5%
76.3
38.9
57.6
73.5
38.3
55.9
81.5
63.9
72.7
80.8
21.4
51.1
65.8
9.1
37.5
80.6
50.0
65.3
@10%
74.9
35.4
55.1
71.5
35.6
53.6
80.0
59.6
69.8
78.0
15.4
46.7
69.9
6.1
38.0
76.2
39.2
57.7
@15%
73.3
33.3
53.3
70.1
35.8
53.0
78.1
56.9
67.5
74.1
11.5
42.8
60.5
7.0
33.8
71.2
34.4
52.8
@20%
71.8
30.4
51.1
68.8
36.8
52.8
75.7
53.0
64.4
67.2
8.7
38.0
55.0
8.1
31.6
64.9
27.2
46.0
@25%
69.0
28.0
48.5
66.2
34.4
50.3
73.5
51.2
62.4
59.6
7.1
33.4
49.8
9.0
29.4
57.8
22.9
40.4
@30%
61.1
22.8
41.9
60.6
34.5
47.5
65.7
44.6
55.2
51.6
5.9
28.8
38.1
7.5
22.8
50.3
21.2
35.7
avg
73.0
37.7
55.3
71.9
30.8
51.3
75.8
54.4
65.1
70.9
20.7
45.8
61.7
6.7
34.2
68.2
35.2
51.7
TABLE III: Re-identification performance across various IoU thresholds using different instance segmentation methods (MinkPanop-
tic (ours) and Superpoint Transformer [25]) and matching baselines (Nearest Neighbor (NN), Riccardi et al. [48] and ours).
20
40
60
80
GT
@5%
@10%
@15%
@20%
@25%
@30%
avg
20
40
60
80
GT
@5%
@10%
@15%
@20%
@25%
@30%
avg
20
40
60
80
GT
@5%
@10%
@15%
@20%
@25%
@30%
avg
20
40
60
80
GT
@5%
@10%
@15%
@20%
@25%
@30%
avg
20
40
60
80
GT
@5%
@10%
@15%
@20%
@25%
@30%
avg
20
40
60
80
GT
@5%
@10%
@15%
@20%
@25%
@30%
avg
F1p
F1n
mF1
using MinkPanoptic predictions
using SPT predictions
F1p
F1n
mF1
NN
Riccardi et al.
Ours
Fig. 7: Radar plots comparing re-identification performance, detailed in Tab. III, at varying IoU thresholds using instance segmentations
from our method (MinkPanoptic) and SuperPoint. Best viewed in color.
Training the instance segmentation module requires ap-
proximately 2 hours on average for both the strawberry and
PFuji-Size apple datasets. At inference time, the instance
segmentation has a runtime of 100 ms / 100k points.
Training the descriptor extraction and matching modules
takes less than 1 hour. At inference time, processing and
matching 200 strawberries spanning approximately 2 m of
crop row requires about 1.2 s. This runtime includes fruit
support point cloud extraction and descriptor encoding of
both point clouds (previous and current), and inference of
the attention-based matching module.
Overall, the computational cost of the pipeline is dom-
inated by the instance segmentation stage, while the re-
identification component scales approximately linearly with

strawberry
PFuji-Size
bw (m)
RQ
SQ
PQ
bw (m)
RQ
SQ
PQ
0.0094†
80.2
86.2
71.5
0.02
80.2
85.3
70.4
0.0100
80.5
86.2
71.7
0.03
85.3
85.2
74.1
0.0105
80.8
86.1
71.9
0.0325
85.6
85.2
74.4
0.0110
80.8
86.1
71.9
0.035
85.8
85.2
74.5
0.01125
81.0
86.0
72.0
0.0375
85.7
85.1
74.3
0.0115
80.7
86.1
71.8
0.04
85.7
85.1
74.3
0.01175
80.8
86.1
71.9
0.0425
86.0
85.0
74.4
0.1200
80.8
86.1
71.9
0.07†
81.9
84.6
71.2
0.1300
80.3
86.1
71.5
0.09
74.6
84.5
65.7
TABLE IV: Effect of mean shift bandwidth fine-tuning on the
instance segmentation performance on the strawberry and PFuji-
Size datasets. Metrics are on the valid set in %. † symbol indicates
the average radius size of the strawberries and apples in the valid
set.
the number of detected fruits and remains lightweight in
comparison. The reported runtimes are well suited for offline
and online phenotyping pipelines commonly adopted in
agricultural monitoring and crop analysis applications.
VI. ABLATION STUDY
A. Instance Segmentation
Our instance segmentation method, MinkPanoptic, is an
end-to-end learned approach except for the fine-tuning of the
bandwidth parameter of the mean shift algorithm, necessary
for clustering the fruit instances. We carefully investigated,
using the validation set, the impact of different bandwidth
values on performance. The bandwidth optimization process
is a hyperparameter that is not involved in the training
process of MinkPanoptic, since the loss only cares for binary
semantic segmentation and offset prediction. Thus, we were
able to adjust it after the training by running multiple
instance segmentations and analyzing the performance. By
doing so in a grid-search approach, we could identify the
optimal bandwidth value that maximizes the PQ on the
validation set.
The results on the strawberry and PFuji-Size datasets are
reported in Tab. IV. The PQ values followed a near-parabolic
trend, allowing a clear selection of optimal values, which
we used to evaluate our method, MinkPanoptic, in the test
set. Interestingly, for strawberry data, the bandwidth value
0.094 m, which corresponds to the average radius size of
the strawberries in the validation set, does not provide the
best performance. The same happens for the apple data. The
0.07 m bandwidth, which corresponds to the average radius
size of the apples in the validation set, does not provide the
best performance.
B. Re-identification
We conducted experiments to evaluate the impact of
various design choices of fruit descriptor extractors on our
method. For each experiment, we performed a 5-fold cross-
validation on the training set
  ˆ
F1,
ˆ
F2, and ˆy2,1

which
we manually divided into five subsets based on the 3D
position of strawberries. We tested different configurations of
our fruit descriptor extraction and re-identification method,
repeating each experiment four times with different seeds and
averaging the results to minimize the effect of randomness.
The results are in Fig. 9.
Initially, we validated our re-identification method using
a fixed matching module configuration, examining various
hidden dimensions for the fruit encoder. The configuration
with hidden dimensions [8, 8, 16, 16, 64] achieved the
highest performance, with the best mF1 score of 61.2 %,
F1p of 75.5 % and F1n of 47.0 %.
Next, we examined the effect of augmenting the trans-
former encoder layer’s feedforward dimension from 512 to
1024 to determine if a more complex network could obtain
better performance. The matcher with hidden dimensions [8,
16, 32, 32, 32] yielded the best in subset mF1 score of
60.2 %, although this was still lower than the previous results.
Finally, we explore the importance of incorporating neigh-
boring fruits in the descriptor computation. We modified the
descriptor extraction module to include a graph-based neural
network that computes the neighboring fruits’ descriptor and
concatenates this to the original fruit descriptor. The archi-
tecture is depicted in Fig. 8. We tested 2 graph convolutional
operators: GCNConv [59] and EdgeConv [60]. We kept fixed
descriptor extractor hidden dimensions [8, 8, 16, 16, 64] and
tried different matcher feedforward dimensions, i.e., 512 and
1024.
The method employing the GCNConv convolution opera-
tor, with feedforward dimension 512, obtained the best mF1
score of 61.0 % among methods using a graph convolutional
operator (0.2 % less than the original, graph-free method) and
the overall best F1n of 47.1 %. In contrast, EdgeConv with
the feedforward dimension 1024 obtains the overall best F1p
of 76.9 %. Although being best only in one metric, they do
not balance the performance between negative and positive
predictions, obtaining a lower mF1 score than the graph-free
method.
In summary, our evaluation suggests that our graph-free
method, composed of an encoder with hidden dimensions [8,
8, 16, 16, 64] and a matching module with a transformer’s
feedforward dimension 512, demonstrated to be the best
performing in cross-validation, well balancing negative and
positive predictions, and obtaining the best mF1.
C. Discussion of the Results, Limitations and Future Works
Our findings demonstrate the potential of leveraging
high-resolution
3D
point
clouds
for
fruit
monitoring,
particularly in agricultural environments. The proposed
method effectively combines instance segmentation and re-
identification, achieving state-of-the-art performance on chal-
lenging datasets. However, several aspects need further dis-
cussion.
First, the results highlight the importance of accurate
instance segmentation as a precursor to successful re-
identification. While our method outperformed baselines, its
performance is inherently tied to the quality of the instance
segmentation. Errors such as merged fruits or false detections
can propagate to the re-identification stage, reducing overall
accuracy. This highlights the need for robust segmentation

compute the
graph of the
neighborhood of
fruit 
Graph
Convolution
Graph
Convolution
concat.
Global Avg
Pooling
Graph-
based
Descriptor
Enhancer
relative 3D
position btw
fruits in 
expanded fruit
descriptor
Fig. 8: We investigated the significance of neighboring fruits in the descriptor computation. The module builds the graph of the neighborhood
of fruit F t
i . Two graph convolutions process the graph and a final global average pooling computes the neighborhood descriptor dt
i,g,
which is concatenated to the original Fi fruit descriptor dt
i.
methods tailored to agricultural datasets, which often feature
dense, occluded, and visually similar objects, unlike indoor
or urban datasets.
Second, the experiments reveal the adaptability of our
approach to different fruit types and datasets. The use of
MinkPanoptic for instance segmentation proved effective
across both strawberry and apple datasets, suggesting its
generalizability. However, the re-identification module was
only evaluated on the strawberry dataset due to the lack of
publicly available temporally consistent instance-annotated
datasets for other fruits. Expanding the evaluation to diverse
datasets and fruit types would provide a more comprehensive
understanding of the method’s robustness and limitations.
Third, the ablation study highlights the significance of
design choices in the descriptor extraction and matching
modules. While incorporating graph-based features showed
potential, the simpler graph-free approach achieved the best
balance between positive and negative predictions. This sug-
gests that the added complexity of graph-based methods may
not always translate to improved performance, particularly in
scenarios with limited training data.
Finally, the broader implications of this work extend
beyond fruit monitoring. The proposed method can be
adapted to other domains requiring instance segmentation
and temporal matching in 3D point clouds, such as forestry,
construction, and urban planning. However, the reliance on
high-resolution LiDAR data may limit its applicability in
resource-constrained settings. Future work could explore the
use of lower-cost sensors or hybrid approaches combining
2D and 3D data to enhance accessibility.
VII. CONCLUSION
In this article, we presented a novel approach for temporal
object instance analysis based on fruit instance segmentation
and re-identification on colored point clouds acquired by a
high-resolution LiDAR scanner at different points in time.
Our method first segments fruits using a learning-based
instance segmentation approach, and then each segmented
fruit is processed by a 3D sparse convolutional neural
network to compute a compact descriptor. Each fruit is
matched with its corresponding instance from a previous
data collection using its descriptors and an attention-based
matching network designed for robust temporal association.
We implemented and evaluated our approach on real-world
3D datasets and provided comparisons with other existing
techniques. The experiments supported all claims made in
this article and demonstrated that our method achieves su-
perior performance in both instance segmentation and re-
identification, even when trained on ground truth annotations
but tested on predicted instance segmentation. This flexibility
makes our method highly adaptable to different scenarios,
highlighting its potential for broader applications in 3D
pattern recognition tasks where segmentation and temporal
consistency are critical, allowing for easy integration and
replacement of the segmentation component with alternative
solutions.
REFERENCES
[1] T. Duckett, S. Pearson, S. Blackmore, B. Grieve, W. Chen, G. Cielniak,
J. Cleaversmith, J. Dai, S. Davis, C. Fox, P. From, I. Georgilas, R. Gill,
I. Gould, M. Hanheide, A. Hunter, F. Iida, L. Mihalyova, S. Nefti-
Meziani, G. Neumann, P. Paoletti, T. Pridmore, D. Ross, M. Smith,
M. Stoelen, M. Swainson, S. Wane, P. Wilson, I. Wright, and G. Yang,
“Agricultural Robotics: The Future of Robotic Agriculture,” arXiv
preprint, vol. arXiv:1806.06762, 2018.
[2] A. Walter, R. Finger, R. Huber, and N. Buchmann, “Opinion: Smart
farming is key to developing sustainable agriculture,” Proceedings of
the National Academy of Sciences, vol. 114, no. 24, pp. 6148–6150,
2017.
[3] F. Fiorani and U. Schurr, “Future scenarios for plant phenotyping,”
Annual Review of Plant Biology, vol. 64, pp. 267–291, 2013.
[4] M. Watt, F. Fiorani, B. Usadel, U. Rascher, O. Muller, and U. Schurr,
“Phenotyping: New windows into the plant for breeders,” Annual
Review of Plant Biology, vol. 71, no. 1, 2020.
[5] I. P´erez-Borrero, D. Mar´ın-Santos, M. E. Geg´undez-Arias, and
E. Cort´es-Ancos, “A fast and accurate deep learning method for
strawberry instance segmentation,” Computers and Electronics in
Agriculture, vol. 178, p. 105736, 2020.
[6] P. Ganesh, K. Volle, T. Burks, and S. Mehta, “Deep orange: Mask
R-CNN based orange detection and segmentation,” IFAC Proceedings
Volumes, vol. 52, no. 30, pp. 70–75, 2019.
[7] S. Gonzalez, C. Arellano, and J. E. Tapia, “Deepblueberry: Quantifi-
cation of blueberries in the wild using instance segmentation,” IEEE
Access, vol. 7, 2019.
[8] J. Gen´e-Mola, R. Sanz-Cortiella, J. R. Rosell-Polo, J.-R. Morros,
J. Ruiz-Hidalgo, V. Vilaplana, and E. Gregorio, “Fruit detection
and 3d location using instance segmentation neural networks and
structure-from-motion photogrammetry,” Computers and Electronics
in Agriculture, vol. 169, p. 105165, 2020.
[9] W. Jia, Z. Zhang, W. Shao, S. Hou, Z. Ji, G. Liu, and X. Yin,
“Foveamask: A fast and accurate deep learning model for green fruit
instance segmentation,” Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, vol.
191, p. 106488, 2021.
[10] C. Stachniss, J. Leonard, and S. Thrun, Springer Handbook of
Robotics, 2nd edition.
Springer Verlag, 2016, ch. Chapt. 46: Si-
multaneous Localization and Mapping, pp. 1153–1176.

Fig. 9: Ablation study to evaluate the impact of various design
choices on our method. All values are in %. The horizontal lines
depict the standard deviation of mF1. The first four bars colored in
refer to the graph-free method with different fruit descriptor encoder
hidden dimensions. The following four bars colored in
refer
to the graph-free method with different transformer feedforward
dimensions. The last four bars colored in
refer to the graph-
based method with different graph convolutional operators and
transformer feedforward dimensions. The best performing method
for each of the F1n, F1p and mF1 metrics is highlighted in bold.
The mF1 metric is the most important, as it balances positive
and negative predictions, and is used to determine the overall best
performing method.
[11] O. Vysotska and C. Stachniss, “Effective Visual Place Recognition
Using Multi-Sequence Maps,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters
(RA-L), vol. 4, no. 2, pp. 1730–1736, 2019.
[12] J. Rodriguez-Sanchez, J. L. Snider, K. Johnsen, and C. Li, “Cotton
morphological traits tracking through spatiotemporal registration of
terrestrial laser scanning time-series data,” Frontiers in Plant Science,
vol. 15, 2024.
[13] K. He, G. Gkioxari, P. Doll´ar, and R. Girshick, “Mask R-CNN,” in
Proc. of the IEEE Intl. Conf. on Computer Vision (ICCV), 2017, pp.
2961–2969.
[14] Y. Ge, Y. Xiong, and P. J. From, “Instance segmentation and localiza-
tion of strawberries in farm conditions for automatic fruit harvesting,”
IFAC-PapersOnLine, vol. 52, no. 30, pp. 294–299, 2019.
[15] H. Kang and C. Chen, “Fruit detection, segmentation and 3D visuali-
sation of environments in apple orchards,” Computers and Electronics
in Agriculture, vol. 171, p. 105302, 2020.
[16] S. Tang, Z. Xia, J. Gu, W. Wang, Z. Huang, and W. Zhang, “High-
precision apple recognition and localization method based on RGB-D
and improved SOLOv2 instance segmentation,” Frontiers in Sustain-
able Food Systems, vol. 8, 2024.
[17] X. Wang, R. Zhang, T. Kong, L. Li, and C. Shen, “SOLOv2: Dynamic
and fast instance segmentation,” Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 2020.
[18] M. Tan and Q. Le, “EfficientNet: Rethinking model scaling for con-
volutional neural networks,” in International conference on machine
learning, 2019, pp. 6105–6114.
[19] F. Magistri, Y. Pan, J. Bartels, J. Behley, C. Stachniss, and C. Lehnert,
“Improving Robotic Fruit Harvesting Within Cluttered Environments
Through 3D Shape Completion,” IEEE Robotics and Automation
Letters (RA-L), vol. 9, no. 8, pp. 7357–7364, 2024.
[20] Q. Zhu, L. Fan, and N. Weng, “Advancements in point cloud data
augmentation for deep learning: A survey,” Pattern Recognition, vol.
153, p. 110532, 2024.
[21] C. Choy, J. Gwak, and S. Savarese, “4D Spatio-Temporal Con-
vNets: Minkowski Convolutional Neural Networks,” in Proc. of
the IEEE/CVF Conf. on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR), 2019, pp. 3075–3084.
[22] X. Zhu, H. Zhou, T. Wang, F. Hong, W. Li, Y. Ma, H. Li, R. Yang, and
D. Lin, “Cylindrical and asymmetrical 3d convolution networks for
lidar-based perception,” IEEE Trans. on Pattern Analysis and Machine
Intelligence (TPAMI), vol. 44, no. 10, pp. 6807–6822, 2022.
[23] J. Schult, F. Engelmann, A. Hermans, O. Litany, S. Tang, and B. Leibe,
“Mask3D: Mask Transformer for 3D Semantic Instance Segmenta-
tion,” Proc. of the IEEE Intl. Conf. on Robotics & Automation (ICRA),
2023.
[24] R. Marcuzzi, L. Nunes, L. Wiesmann, J. Behley, and C. Stachniss,
“Mask-Based Panoptic LiDAR Segmentation for Autonomous Driv-
ing,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters (RA-L), vol. 8, no. 2, pp.
1141–1148, 2023.
[25] D. Robert, H. Raguet, and L. Landrieu, “Scalable 3d panoptic seg-
mentation as superpoint graph clustering,” Proc. of the Intl. Conf. on
3D Vision (3DV), 2024.
[26] S. Shin, K. Zhou, M. Vankadari, A. Markham, and N. Trigoni,
“Spherical mask: Coarse-to-fine 3d point cloud instance segmentation
with spherical representation,” in Proc. of the IEEE/CVF Conf. on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2024, pp. 4060–
4069.
[27] Z. Xiao, W. Zhang, T. Wang, C. C. Loy, D. Lin, and J. Pang, “Position-
guided point cloud panoptic segmentation transformer,” Intl. Journal of
Computer Vision (IJCV), vol. 133, no. 1, pp. 275–290, 2025.
[28] M. Kolodiazhnyi, A. Vorontsova, A. Konushin, and D. Rukhovich,
“Oneformer3d: One transformer for unified point cloud segmentation,”
in Proc. of the IEEE/CVF Conf. on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition (CVPR), 2024, pp. 20 943–20 953.
[29] F. Hong, H. Zhou, X. Zhu, H. Li, and Z. Liu, “Lidar-based panoptic
segmentation via dynamic shifting network,” in Proc. of the IEEE/CVF
Conf. on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2021, pp.
13 090–13 099.
[30] B. Xiang, Y. Yue, T. Peters, and K. Schindler, “A review of panoptic
segmentation for mobile mapping point clouds,” ISPRS Journal of
Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing (JPRS), vol. 203, pp. 373–391,
2023.
[31] B. Graham, M. Engelcke, and L. van der Maaten, “3D Semantic
Segmentation with Submanifold Sparse Convolutional Networks,” in
Proc. of the IEEE Conf. on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR), 2018, pp. 9224–9232.
[32] A. Vaswani, N. Shazeer, N. Parmar, J. Uszkoreit, L. Jones, A. N.
Gomez, Ł. Kaiser, and I. Polosukhin, “Attention Is All You Need,”
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2017.
[33] H. Kang, X. Wang, and C. Chen, “Accurate fruit localisation using high
resolution lidar-camera fusion and instance segmentation,” Computers
and Electronics in Agriculture, vol. 203, p. 107450, 2022.
[34] J. P. Rodr´ıguez, D. C. Corrales, J.-N. Aubertot, and J. C. Corrales, “A
computer vision system for automatic cherry beans detection on coffee
trees,” Pattern Recognition Letters, vol. 136, pp. 142–153, 2020.
[35] L. Liu, G. Li, Y. Du, X. Li, X. Wu, Z. Qiao, and T. Wang, “Cs-
net: Conv-simpleformer network for agricultural image segmentation,”
Pattern Recognition, vol. 147, p. 110140, 2024.
[36] P. Chu, Z. Li, K. Lammers, R. Lu, and X. Liu, “Deep learning-based
apple detection using a suppression mask r-cnn,” Pattern Recognition
Letters, vol. 147, pp. 206–211, 2021.
[37] A. Cardellicchio, F. Solimani, G. Dimauro, S. Summerer, and V. Ren`o,
“Patch-based probabilistic identification of plant roots using convo-
lutional neural networks,” Pattern Recognition Letters, vol. 183, pp.
125–132, 2024.

[38] J. Kierdorf, I. Weber, A. Kicherer, L. Zabawa, L. Drees, and
R. Roscher, “Behind the leaves: Estimation of occluded grapevine
berries with conditional generative adversarial networks,” Frontiers in
Artificial Intelligence, vol. 5, 2022.
[39] S. Nuske, S. Achar, T. Bates, S. Narasimhan, and S. Singh, “Yield
Estimation in Vineyards by Visual Grape Detection,” in Proc. of the
IEEE/RSJ Intl. Conf. on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), 2011,
pp. 2352–2358.
[40] M. Halstead, C. McCool, S. Denman, T. Perez, and C. Fookes, “Fruit
quantity and ripeness estimation using a robotic vision system,” IEEE
Robotics and Automation Letters (RA-L), vol. 3, no. 4, pp. 2995–3002,
2018.
[41] C. Smitt, M. Halstead, T. Zaenker, M. Bennewitz, and C. McCool,
“PATHoBot: A robot for glasshouse crop phenotyping and interven-
tion,” in Proc. of the IEEE Intl. Conf. on Robotics & Automation
(ICRA), 2021, pp. 2324–2330.
[42] P. M. Blok, E. J. van Henten, F. K. van Evert, and G. Kootstra,
“Image-based size estimation of broccoli heads under varying degrees
of occlusion,” Biosystems Engineering, vol. 208, pp. 213–233, 2021.
[43] A. S. Gomez, E. Aptoula, S. Parsons, and P. Bosilj, “Deep regression
versus detection for counting in robotic phenotyping,” IEEE Robotics
and Automation Letters (RA-L), vol. 6, no. 2, pp. 2902–2907, 2021.
[44] H. Hao, S. Wu, Y. Li, W. Wen, jiangchuan Fan, Y. Zhang, L. Zhuang,
L. Xu, H. Li, X. Guo, and S. Liu, “Automatic acquisition, analysis and
wilting measurement of cotton 3d phenotype based on point cloud,”
Biosystems Engineering, vol. 239, pp. 173–189, 2024.
[45] F. P. Boogaard, E. J. van Henten, and G. Kootstra, “The added value
of 3d point clouds for digital plant phenotyping – a case study on
internode length measurements in cucumber,” Biosystems Engineering,
vol. 234, pp. 1–12, 2023.
[46] J. Rodriguez-Sanchez, K. Johnsen, and C. Li, “A ground mobile robot
for autonomous terrestrial laser scanning-based field phenotyping,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.04404, 2024.
[47] N. Chebrolu, F. Magistri, T. L¨abe, and C. Stachniss, “Registration of
Spatio-Temporal Point Clouds of Plants for Phenotyping,” PLOS ONE,
vol. 16, no. 2, 2021.
[48] A. Riccardi, S. Kelly, E. Marks, F. Magistri, T. Guadagnino, J. Behley,
M. Bennewitz, and C. Stachniss, “Fruit Tracking Over Time Using
High-Precision Point Clouds,” in Proc. of the IEEE Intl. Conf. on
Robotics & Automation (ICRA), 2023, pp. 9630–9636.
[49] L. Lobefaro, M. Malladi, O. Vysotska, T. Guadagnino, and C. Stach-
niss, “Estimating 4D Data Associations Towards Spatial-Temporal
Mapping of Growing Plants for Agricultural Robots,” in Proc. of the
IEEE/RSJ Intl. Conf. on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), 2023,
pp. 4212–4218.
[50] L. Lobefaro, M. Malladi, T. Guadagnino, and C. Stachniss, “Spatio-
Temporal Consistent Mapping of Growing Plants for Agricultural
Robots in the Wild,” in Proc. of the IEEE/RSJ Intl. Conf. on Intelligent
Robots and Systems (IROS), 2024, pp. 6375–6382.
[51] D. Comaniciu and P. Meer, “Mean Shift: A Robust Approach Toward
Feature Space Analysis,” IEEE Trans. on Pattern Analysis and Ma-
chine Intelligence (TPAMI), vol. 24, no. 5, pp. 603–619, 2002.
[52] S. Ioffe and C. Szegedy, “Batch Normalization: Accelerating Deep
Network Training by Reducing Internal Covariate Shift,” in Proc. of
the Intl. Conf. on Machine Learning (ICML), 2015, pp. 448–456.
[53] B. Mildenhall, P. Srinivasan, M. Tancik, J. Barron, R. Ramamoorthi,
and R. Ng, “NeRF: Representing Scenes as Neural Radiance Fields
for View Synthesis,” in Proc. of the Europ. Conf. on Computer Vision
(ECCV), 2020, pp. 99–106.
[54] M. Berman, A. R. Triki, and M. B. Blaschko, “The lov´asz-softmax
loss: A tractable surrogate for the optimization of the intersection-
over-union measure in neural networks,” in Proc. of the IEEE/CVF
Conf. on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2018,
pp. 4413–4421.
[55] J. Gen´e-Mola, R. Sanz-Cortiella, J. R. Rosell-Polo, A. Escol`a,
and E. Gregorio, “Pfuji-size dataset: A collection of images and
photogrammetry-derived 3d point clouds with ground truth annotations
for fuji apple detection and size estimation in field conditions,” Data
in Brief, vol. 39, p. 107629, 2021.
[56] A. Kirillov, K. He, R. Girshick, C. Rother, and P. Doll´ar, “Panoptic
Segmentation,” in Proc. of the IEEE/CVF Conf. on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2019, pp. 9404–9413.
[57] A. Kirillov, R. Girshick, K. He, and P. Dollar, “Panoptic Feature
Pyramid Networks,” in Proc. of the IEEE/CVF Conf. on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2019, pp. 6399–6408.
[58] T. Akiba, S. Sano, T. Yanase, T. Ohta, and M. Koyama, “Optuna: A
next-generation hyperparameter optimization framework,” in Proc. of
the Intl. Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, 2019, pp.
2623–2631.
[59] T. Kipf, “Semi-supervised classification with graph convolutional
networks,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1609.02907, 2016.
[60] Y. Wang, Y. Sun, Z. Liu, S. E. Sarma, M. M. Bronstein, and J. M.
Solomon, “Dynamic graph CNN for learning on point clouds,” ACM
Trans. on Graphics (TOG), vol. 38, no. 5, 2019.
