Vision-Based 3D Fruit Localization for Robotic
Harvesting Using Recursive State Estimation
1st Zhao Gao
Electronic Information Engineering College
China West Normal University, China
NanChong, China
zhao.gao2025@outlook.com
2nd Yinglun Wang
Department of Food Science and Nutrition
Research Institute for Future Food,
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong, China
leo33.wang@polyu.edu.hk
3rd Kang Liu
Department of Aeronautical and Aviation Engineering
Research Institute for Future Food,
Research Center for Low Altitude Economy,
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong, China
kang1.liu@polyu.edu.hk
4th Wenyu Yang
Department of Aeronautical and Aviation Engineering
Research Institute for Future Food,
Research Center for Low Altitude Economy,
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong, China
wenyu.yang@connect.polyu.hk
5th Chuanzhen Jia
Department of Food Science and Nutrition
Research Institute for Future Food,
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong, China
chuanzhen715.jia@polyu.edu.hk
6th Ka-Hing Wong
Department of Food Science and Nutrition
Research Institute for Future Food,
The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong, China
ka-hing.wong@polyu.edu.hk
Abstract—Precision agriculture is increasingly reliant on au-
tonomous robotic systems with advanced perception capabilities
for tasks such as yield estimation and automated harvesting.
However, accurate 3D localization of crops, particularly fragile
fruits that are prone to bruising and require gentle handling,
remains challenging due to occlusions, variable lighting, and
dynamic field conditions. To address this, we propose a novel
framework for fruit 3D localization that leverages temporal
associations between consecutive video frames, and employs a
Recursive Least Squares (RLS) estimator. This approach enables
robust and precise position tracking of individual fruits, facili-
tating both non-invasive yield prediction and targeted harvesting
operations. The proposed algorithm was extensively validated
in both simulated environments and real-world scenarios using
an autonomously mobile robot platform equipped with multi-
sensor fusion. Experimental results demonstrate the system’s
effectiveness in improving localization accuracy and reliability,
offering a practical solution for precision agriculture applications.
This research contributes to bridging the technological gap in
agricultural robotics, particularly in enhancing 3D perception
for fruit monitoring and harvesting.
Index Terms—Precision Agriculture, 3D Fruit Localization,
Recursive Least Squares, Autonomous Robotics, Multi-sensor
Fusion
I. INTRODUCTION
Precision agriculture technology, as a key driver in en-
hancing the food quality, efficiency, and sustainable devel-
opment of the food industry, is significantly improving the
This work is supported by the Research Centre for Low Altitude Econ-
omy, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (No. 4-CE3P) (Corresponding
authors: Yinglun Wang and Ka-Hing Wong)
standardization and refinement of crop management and food
processing through the integration of advanced technologies
such as machine vision, automatic control, and intelligent
robotics [1]. Currently, autonomous robotic systems equipped
with multimodal perception and intelligent decision-making
capabilities are progressively being applied in critical stages
such as crop growth monitoring [2], food quality inspection,
sorting and grading, aseptic packaging, contaminant detection,
and full-chain traceability [3]. These advancements continue to
steer food production models toward high precision, flexibility,
and intelligent transformation.
With the rapid advancement of artificial intelligence,
robotics, and Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) technology,
as these cutting-edge tools permeate diverse sectors, their
inherent automation capabilities are profoundly reshaping a
multitude of industries [4]. As one of the oldest industries,
agriculture is also undergoing constant transformation. In
agricultural production, the rational arrangement of production
plans and resource allocation relies on accurate predictions
of crop yields. Therefore, precisely estimating the yield of
a specific plot has become a critical issue in agricultural
management [5]. To obtain average yield data for an entire
province or even the entire country, sampling survey methods
are generally employed, where the overall yield is extrapolated
from sample data [6]. Among these methods, ”field cutting and
measuring” is a common on-site survey technique. In recent
years, related research directions such as ”biomass estimation
based on tree counting and mapping,” ”orchard fruit counting
2026 7th International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Electromechanical Automation (AIEA)
979-8-3195-1971-9/26/$31.00 ©2026 IEEE
523
2026 7th International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Electromechanical Automation (AIEA) | 979-8-3195-1971-9/26/$31.00 ©2026 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/AIEA70743.2026.11633088
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:47:24 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Multispectral
Imaging
(Data Collection)
Orthomosaic
Generation
(Processing )
Yield Prediction
Model
(Output)
Yield Estimation using UAV Technology
3D Pose Estimation for Harvesting
 
 
Plant Structure
Modeling
(Processing
LIDAR &Vision
Crop Scanning
(Data Collection)
)
Robotic Arm
Guidance
(Output)
  Fruit Harvesting                Yield Prediction 
Agriculture  Application Connection
Fig. 1. Critical tasks in autonomous intelligent agriculture.
and yield estimation,” and ”autonomous sampling and environ-
mental modeling for precision forestry and agriculture” have
all been dedicated to achieving this goal. As shown in Fig.
1, we identify two critical tasks in autonomous intelligent
agriculture: yield estimation and harvesting operation.
In terms of yield estimation, neural networks can be trained
using historical data for preliminary predictions, and the
accuracy of the results can be further improved by incor-
porating localized sampling data from the current year [7].
In practical implementation, different crops require distinct
sampling strategies. For example, in rice production, localized
sampling and field-cutting measurements can be performed
before full maturity. In contrast, for fruit crops, direct sam-
pling before complete ripening is often challenging, making
methods reliant on counting and estimation more common
[8]. It is important to note that although ”counting” and
”estimation” share the same objective, they differ significantly
in methodology. ”Counting” typically refers to enumerating
individual fruits one by one to calculate the total yield.
However, in real-world agricultural settings, due to constraints
in time and cost, indirect methods such as sampling or density
estimation are often used for approximate assessments rather
than comprehensive enumeration [9].
The next critical phase after yield estimation is the har-
vesting operation. For field crops such as rice, combine har-
vesters have achieved mature automated operations. However,
in horticultural crop scenarios like fruit trees, the picking
process requires careful handling to avoid damaging the plants,
placing higher demands on operational precision—a domain
where current technologies remain underdeveloped. Although
sporadic studies have explored this field, precise 3D perception
technology in agricultural environments is still in its early
stages compared to advanced industries such as autonomous
driving. To address these bottlenecks, this paper focuses on
the aforementioned challenges, with main contributions en-
compassing the following two aspects:
1)We introduce a framework for estimating the 3D local-
ization of fruits by utilizing associations between consecutive
frames based on a recursive least squares estimator.
2)The algorithm was validated in both simulated and real-
world scenarios by an autonomously mobile robot platform
with integrated multi-sensor fusion.
II. RELATED WORK
In the field of crop yield calculation, biomass estimation
is a relatively established domain with broad applications in
forestry, animal husbandry, and agriculture. This approach
shares similarities with statistical sampling, following a fun-
damental two-step process: first, collecting samples, and then
processing the sample data to extrapolate estimates to larger
scales, such as for individual trees or forest stands [10].
However, fruit yield estimation requires sampling the current
year’s fruit set rate, yet practical calculation of this rate still
faces numerous challenges. These include determining the
number of fruit-bearing mother branches, counting flowers on
these branches, quantifying fruit set after blossom drop, and
precisely locating fruits—tasks that are both labor-intensive
and prone to error when done manually. The advancement
of AI [11] and Computer Vision (CV) [12] has introduced
innovative solutions to address these difficulties.
The most common application scenarios for 3D object
detection are in autonomous driving and automated sorting
systems. In autonomous driving, it is typically necessary to
estimate surrounding object positions, predict motion, and
adjust trajectory planning accordingly. Well-known bench-
marks include the KITTI 3D Object Detection benchmark
[13], among others. Existing solutions include camera-based
methods, LiDAR-based techniques, sensor fusion networks
[14], and Bird’s Eye View (BEV) representations [15].
However,
in
the
agricultural
sector,
developments
in
datasets, benchmarks, hardware, and algorithms lag behind
those in autonomous driving and robotics [5]. In terms of
datasets and benchmarks, authoritative standards are still
lacking. For hardware, RGB-D cameras or combinations of
cameras and LiDAR are primarily used. At the algorithmic
level, early research mostly focused on fruit-picking scenarios,
estimating the position and status of individual fruits (such as
whether the fruit is occluded or intact) to drive robotic arms
for grasping tasks. However, approaches that only estimate
the position of individual fruits do not fully align with actual
production needs. Recently, macro-estimation studies such as
orchard-level fruit counting have been gradually emerging.
None of these methods is entirely accurate, as errors are
always inevitable. Sensor inaccuracies, localization errors, and
3D algorithm limitations lead to either duplicated detections
or missed detections. Techniques such as loop closure and
scene graphs have been applied to mitigate these errors, but
no approach has yet systematically analyzed the proportion
of errors contributed by different modules. Therefore, this
paper experimentally examines the error sources associated
with various sensor combinations and proposes an Extended
Kalman Filter (EKF) [16] method to enhance the accuracy of
fruit tracking. In summary, the contributions of this paper are
as follows:
524
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:47:24 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Xw
Yw
Zw
y
Fig. 2. Uncertainty and its propagation in 3D object estimation pipeline.
1) An EKF-based algorithm for estimating the 3D position
of fruits by leveraging inter-frame associations is proposed.
2) The algorithm is validated using an autonomous mobile
robot platform with multi-sensor fusion in both simulated and
real-world scenarios.
III. METHODOLOGY
A naive approach for 3D object pose estimation involves
first detecting and localizing objects in the image (e.g., using
methods like YOLO), and then combining the detection results
with depth information to estimate the object’s position in the
world frame. However, as depicted in Fig. 2, in practice due to
computational errors, the estimated position of the object in the
camera frame often exhibits jittery trajectories with significant
fluctuations. Moreover, in outdoor environments, the vehicle’s
own position—typically estimated via odometry—also intro-
duces errors, which further propagate to the object’s computed
location in the world coordinate system. To address these
issues, backend optimization methods are required to refine
the initially coarse 3D object poses.
Our methodology is divided into two main parts: the first
introduces the sensor setup used to compute the 3D positions
of objects, and the second presents the backend optimization
algorithm. Before proceeding, we first define the mathematical
notations used throughout this paper, including world coordi-
nate systems, Lie groups, and Lie algebras.
We represent a 3D rotation matrix by R ∈R3×3, a 3D trans-
lation vector by t ∈R3, and a 3D rigid body transformation
by SE(3) = {T =
R
t
0
1

∈R4×4|R ∈SO(3), t ∈R3}.
Given two transformation matrices T1 and T2. We have
{T1 =
R1
t1
0
1

∈R4×4|R1 ∈SO(3), t1 ∈R3} and {T2 =
R2
t2
0
1

∈R4×4|R2 ∈SO(3), t2 ∈R3} in SE(3)—the
Special Euclidean Group in three dimensions—their compo-
sition is defined as T1 · T2 =
R1R2
t1 + R1t2 0
1
.
The notation T21 is used to indicate the transformation from
coordinate frame 1 to coordinate frame 2.
In a particular application, we wish to sum two vectors:
rpq
v
and rqi
w . The vector rqi
w extends from point q to point i
and is expressed in the world coordinate system, whereas rpq
v
goes from point p to point q and is represented in the vehicle
coordinate frame. To perform the addition, we first convert rpq
v
into the world coordinate system via the transformation Twv.
The resulting vector is then added to rqi
w . This procedure is
summarized by the following expression:
rpi
w = Twvrpq
v + rqi
w .
(1)
Let f denote the focal length in meters, while α and β
represent the number of pixels per meter along the x and
y axes respectively. Consequently, fx = αf and fy = βf,
together with cx and cy, are all expressed in pixels. This
relationship can be more compactly represented in matrix
form, though it requires using homogeneous coordinates on
the left side and non-homogeneous coordinates on the right:


u
v
1

= 1
Z


fx
0
cx
0
fy
cy
0
0
1




X
Y
Z

= 1
Z KP.
(2)
Alternatively, multiplying both sides by Z yields the more
conventional form found in most literature:
Z


u
v
1

=


fx
0
cx
0
fy
cy
0
0
1




X
Y
Z

= KP.
(3)
In these equations, the middle matrix K is referred to as
the camera’s intrinsic parameter matrix (or simply intrinsics).
These parameters are typically fixed after camera manufac-
turing and remain constant during operation. While some
manufacturers provide these intrinsic values, they often need
to be estimated through a process known as camera calibra-
tion. Established calibration methods, such as the widely-used
approach [15], have reached sufficient maturity that detailed
discussion here becomes unnecessary.
A. Object Detection Frontend
The frontend perception pipeline operates on a per-frame
basis. It first computes the position of detected objects relative
to the robot platform using instantaneous sensor readings.
This local estimate is then converted into a global position
within the world coordinate system, utilizing the robot’s es-
timated pose provided by its odometry. In terms of sensor
configuration, we investigate two primary approaches: one
using a standalone RGB-D camera, and another that employs
fusion between a camera and a lidar. The 3D reconstruction
is achieved by back-projecting the 2D image detections into
3D space using the camera’s projective geometry (as defined
in (2) and the associated depth measurements from the sensor.
1) RGB-D camera 3D object detection: RGB-D cameras,
which provide depth information, can be primarily classified
into stereo-based and Time-of-Flight (ToF) technologies. For
readers interested in detailed principles, we recommend the
work by Kang et al. [6]. Regardless of the specific technology,
RGB-D cameras generally have a limited operating range and
are sensitive to environmental illumination conditions, making
them more suitable for indoor applications.
525
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:47:24 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

A practical advantage of these sensors is that depth values
are directly registered to image pixels. This allows us to
conveniently extract depth information from within a target
object’s bounding box to compute its 3D position in the camera
coordinate system. Given a target pixel (u, v) with measured
depth d, the 3D position (xc, yc, zc) in the camera frame can
be computed as:


xc
yc
zc

= K−1 ·


u · d
v · d
d

,
(4)
where K represents the camera intrinsic matrix as in 2, and
the z-axis corresponds to the optical axis (depth direction).
2) Camera-LiDAR fusion: The camera-LiDAR fusion ap-
proach similarly begins by detecting objects and extracting
their bounding boxes from the image. Depth information is
then obtained from the LiDAR point cloud. Due to its higher
power, LiDAR is less sensitive to illumination changes and
offers a longer detection range, making it more suitable for
outdoor environments. Several fusion strategies can be em-
ployed: the point cloud from the current frame can be projected
onto the image plane; candidate points can be selected using
a camera field-of-view (FOV) cone within the point cloud;
or depth can be retrieved from a pre-built LiDAR prior map.
However, due to the relatively low resolution of LiDAR, larger
errors may occur when detecting small objects such as fruits.
Therefore, in this study, this approach is implemented as a
comparative baseline.
The first step in LiDAR-camera fusion is extrinsic cali-
bration. Assuming the camera intrinsics are known, extrinsic
calibration methods can be divided into target-based and tar-
getless approaches. Target-based methods require a calibration
target of known dimensions, typically a checkerboard. With
relatively fixed positioning, an initial extrinsic transformation
between the LiDAR and camera can be estimated from CAD
data. To collect data for LiDAR-camera calibration, the LiDAR
is mounted on a tripod and synchronized with the camera
to capture simultaneous RGB images and point clouds. Each
scene is recorded for 15 seconds to accumulate a sufficient
number of point cloud frames.
The two calibration methods differ in setup. For the target-
based approach, a checkerboard with 7×5 inner corners and
a grid size of 5 cm is used. The board is placed in various
positions and orientations within the overlapping FOV. Careful
selection and placement of the calibration target are essential
for successful calibration. For the targetless method, scenes
rich in geometric features are chosen. This approach imposes
specific requirements on scene structure: for example, scenes
containing purely cylindrical objects such as pillars are unsuit-
able, as edge extraction relies on plane fitting. Additionally,
extracted edges should be distributed relatively uniformly
across the FOV to reduce measurement noise, and should
exhibit diversity in orientation rather than being predominantly
aligned in one direction (e.g., vertical).
The initial extrinsic matrix is obtained from CAD models
and further refined through edge-based matching. We refer
reader to [14] an example of LiDAR-camera extrinsic cali-
bration using a targetless method, showing the original RGB
image, extracted features, depth projection on the RGB image,
and the colored point cloud. The resulting extrinsic matrix
is recorded for subsequent accuracy evaluation. However,
since this is not the main focus of the paper, no quantitative
evaluation is provided. Finally, the 3D position of the object
can be reconstructed based on the derived depth information
as in (4).
B. Object Pose Backend Optimization
Let the object’s state vector be defined as:
x = [x, y, z, ϕ, θ, ψ]T ,
(5)
where (x, y, z) represent the 3D position coordinates and
(ϕ, θ, ψ) represent the roll, pitch, and yaw Euler angles.
The measurement model at time k is:
z(k) = H(k)x + w(k),
(6)
where
H(k)
is
the
observation
matrix
and
w(k)
∼
N(0, R(k)) is zero-mean Gaussian measurement noise.
1) Batch Least Squares Formulation: This section presents
the derivation of the batch optimization approach for backend
processing, where all captured frames are processed simulta-
neously to perform offline refinement of the target object’s
estimated position. The batch least squares estimate with k
measurements is given by:
ˆx(k) =

HkT Rk−1Hk−1 HkT (Rk)−1zk,
(7)
with error covariance:
P(k) =

HkT Rk−1Hk−1 .
(8)
2) Recursive Formulation: While the batch formulation
provides an optimized solution for least squares problems,
it is not feasible for online systems such as robotics
tasks—including fruit picking and manipulation—where real-
time output is required. We therefore propose a recursive
approach to estimate the position of the target object. When
a new measurement z(k + 1) arrives, the information matrix
updates as:
P(k+1)−1 = P(k)−1+H(k+1)T R(k+1)−1H(k+1). (9)
Using the matrix inversion lemma, the covariance update
becomes:
P(k + 1) = [I −W(k + 1)H(k + 1)] P(k),
(10)
where the Kalman gain W(k + 1) is defined as:
W(k + 1) = P(k)H(k + 1)T S(k + 1)−1,
(11)
and the residual covariance is:
S(k + 1) = H(k + 1)P(k)H(k + 1)T + R(k + 1).
(12)
The state estimate updates recursively as:
ˆx(k + 1) = ˆx(k) + W(k + 1) [z(k + 1) −H(k + 1)ˆx(k)] .
(13)
526
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:47:24 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

C. Observation Model for 3D Pose
For RGB-D camera-based 3D pose estimation, the ob-
servation matrix H(k) relates the object’s 6DOF pose to
the measured point cloud features. This linear relationship
allows us to connect the state vector to the actual sensor
measurements. For position measurements derived from depth
data, the observation matrix takes the form:
Hpos(k) =
I3×3
03×3.
(14)
This formulation directly extracts the positional components
from the state vector while ignoring orientation.
Similarly, for orientation measurements obtained from vi-
sual features in the RGB image, the observation matrix be-
comes:
Hori(k) =
03×3
I3×3.
(15)
This structure isolates the orientation components from the
full state vector.
1) Measurement Noise Covariance: Building upon the ob-
servation model, we must characterize the uncertainty as-
sociated with each measurement. The measurement noise
covariance R(k) depends on the RGB-D sensor characteristics
and varies across different operating conditions:
R(k) = diag(σ2
x, σ2
y, σ2
z, σ2
ϕ, σ2
θ, σ2
ψ),
(16)
where the variances are determined through sensor calibration
and account for feature detection uncertainty. The diagonal
structure assumes independence between different measure-
ment components, which is a reasonable approximation for
most practical applications.
2) Algorithm Implementation: With the observation model
and noise characteristics defined, we now present the complete
recursive estimation algorithm that integrates these compo-
nents into a unified framework for real-time pose estimation.
Algorithm 1 Recursive Least Squares for 3D Pose Estimation
Require: Initial state estimate ˆx(0), initial covariance P(0)
Ensure: Refined state estimates ˆx(k) for each frame
1: Initialize: ˆx ←ˆx(0), P ←P(0)
2: for each new RGB-D frame k = 1, 2, . . . do
3:
Extract 3D position and orientation measurements z(k)
4:
Compute observation matrix H(k) based on current
features
5:
Calculate residual covariance: S(k) = H(k)PH(k)T +
R(k)
6:
Compute Kalman gain: W(k) = PH(k)T S(k)−1
7:
Update state estimate: ˆx ←ˆx + W(k)[z(k) −H(k)ˆx]
8:
Update error covariance: P ←[I −W(k)H(k)]P
9:
Output current estimate: ˆx(k) = ˆx
10: end for
This algorithm efficiently combines the theoretical models
with practical implementation considerations, enabling robust
and computationally efficient pose estimation suitable for real-
time robotic applications.
IV. EXPERIMENTS
In accordance with the error analysis presented in Section
III-A, we performed experiments with two distinct sensor
configurations: RGB-D and camera-LiDAR fusion. This sec-
tion provides a quantitative assessment by comparing the
algorithm’s performance in fruit counting and object local-
ization against the Ground Truth (GT). Counting accuracy is
expressed as a percentage, with 100% denoting a perfect match
to GT. Deviations from this ideal value signify inaccuracies,
where the extent of the deviation is inversely proportional to
the algorithm’s precision. Gazebo simulation environment is
shown in Fig 3.
Fig. 3. Simulation environment and real-world UAV model.
In the Gazebo environment, various fruits are placed on ver-
tical plant beds within the simulated garden. These crops pos-
sess similar color and size characteristics. An UAV, equipped
with a depth camera and an Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU),
performs plant position estimation within the greenhouse. For
quantitative evaluation, the ground truth 6-DoF trajectories
are obtained directly from the simulation engine with sub-
millimeter accuracy, which serves as the absolute reference for
computing localization errors. The onboard IMU and RGB-D
camera provide only sensor measurements to the algorithm.
Based on the sensor data and the methodology described
previously, we calculate the 3D position of the fruits. This cal-
culation is performed for each frame. The data from different
frames in the time series are then compared. The sequence
from left to right corresponds to the UAV’s flight timeline,
showing the position estimates for different plants.
We conducted a comparative analysis of estimation accuracy
between our method and a baseline moving-average approach
applied across two consecutive frames. Both methods utilize
the same front-end framework, which employs an RGB-D
camera as its input source and relies on ground-truth semantic
segmentation annotations. Within this idealized simulation
framework, precise semantic segmentation labels are system-
atically generated using HSV-based thresholding techniques,
effectively mitigating sensor noise artifacts.
The results are illustrated in Fig. 4. The green line represents
the ground-truth plant position, the red dashed line depicts the
trajectory from our proposed method, and the blue solid line
shows the result from the moving-average-based method. It
527
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:47:24 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

0.00
5.00
10.00
t (s)
0.98
1.00
1.03
1.05
x pose (m)
plant 1 - x pose
Mean Value Method
Ours
GT
15.00
20.00
t (s)
0.98
1.00
1.03
1.05
x pose (m)
plant 2 - x pose
25.00
30.00
t (s)
0.95
0.98
1.00
1.03
1.05
x pose (m)
plant 3 - x pose
40.00
45.00
t (s)
0.96
0.98
1.00
1.02
1.04
x pose (m)
Plant 4 - x pose
0.00
5.00
10.00
t (s)
0.45
0.48
0.50
0.53
0.55
y pose (m)
Plant 1 - y pose
15.00
20.00
t (s)
1.46
1.48
1.50
1.52
1.54
y pose (m)
plant 2 - y pose
25.00
30.00
t (s)
2.46
2.48
2.50
2.52
2.54
y pose (m)
plant 3 - y pose
40.00
45.00
t (s)
2.95
3.00
3.05
y pose (m)
plant 4 - y pose
0.00
5.00
10.00
t (s)
0.46
0.48
0.50
0.52
0.54
z pose (m)
plant 1 - z pose
15.00
20.00
t (s)
0.48
0.50
0.52
z pose (m)
plant 2 - z pose
25.00
30.00
t (s)
0.98
1.00
1.02
z pose (m)
plant 3 - z pose
40.00
45.00
t (s)
1.46
1.48
1.50
1.52
1.54
z pose (m)
plant 4 - z pose
Fig. 4. Plant pose estimation accuracy comparison between our method and the mean value method.
can be observed that both methods are susceptible to inac-
curacies in the front-end calculations. However, our method
demonstrates a significantly lower variance than the moving-
average approach.
V. CONCLUSION
This paper addresses temporal consistency in fruit 3D local-
ization for precision agriculture via a novel framework. Lever-
aging inter-frame correlations and a recursive least-squares
estimator, it robustly tracks fruit positions. Using RLS filters, it
enables non-invasive yield prediction and targeted harvesting.
The proposed method is evaluated on an autonomous mobile
robot with multi-sensor fusion, the system boosts localization
accuracy and reliability, outperforming mean-based methods in
precision and trajectory coherence. This work delivers a prac-
tical solution, closing technical gaps in agricultural robotics,
especially for 3D perception. Future work will focus on
UAV specific optimizations: reducing latency for lightweight
UAV localization, integrating path planning for autonomous
patrol/harvesting. This work is currently validated in simu-
lation environments; future work will extend to real-world
field experiments with a focus on improving robustness under
illumination variations and occlusions in complex agricultural
scenarios.
REFERENCES
[1] UN Secretary-General, “Progress towards the sustainable development
goals: Report of the secretary-general,” New York, NY, USA, 2024.
[Online]. Available: https://un.org/sdgs/reports
[2] C. Smitt, M. Halstead, T. Zaenker, M. Bennewitz, and C. McCool,
“Pathobot: A robot for glasshouse crop phenotyping and intervention,”
in IEEE Int. Conf. Robot. Autom. (ICRA).
IEEE, 2021, pp. 2324–2330.
[3] M. Raj, S. Gupta, V. Chamola, A. Elhence, T. Garg, M. Atiquzzaman,
and D. Niyato, “A survey on the role of internet of things for adopting
and promoting agriculture 4.0,” J. Netw. Comput. Appl., vol. 187, p.
103107, 2021.
[4] K.-W. Tse, R. Pi, W. Yang, X. Yu, and C.-Y. Wen, “Advancing uav-
based inspection system: The ussa-net segmentation approach to crack
quantification,” IEEE Trans. Instrum. Meas., vol. 73, pp. 1–14, 2024.
[5] W. Yang, K. Liu, Z. Tan, L.-Y. Lo, Y. Wang, K.-H. Wong, and C.-
Y. Wen, “Hierarchical 3-d scene-graph-based semantic-metric slam for
plant inspection and fruit counting in intelligent hydroponics system,”
IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 12, no. 23, pp. 49 071–49 082, 2025.
[6] H. Kang, X. Wang, and C. Chen, “Accurate fruit localisation using
high resolution lidar-camera fusion and instance segmentation,” Comput.
Electron. Agric., vol. 203, p. 107450, 2022.
[7] T. Liu, H. Kang, and C. Chen, “Orb-livox: A real-time dynamic system
for fruit detection and localization,” Comput. Electron. Agric., vol. 209,
p. 107834, 2023.
[8] C. Friess, V. Niculescu, T. Polonelli, M. Magno, and L. Benini, “Fully
onboard slam for distributed mapping with a swarm of nano-drones,”
IEEE Internet Things J., 2024.
[9] C. Cadena, L. Carlone, H. Carrillo, Y. Latif, D. Scaramuzza, J. Neira,
I. Reid, and J. J. Leonard, “Past, present, and future of simultaneous
localization and mapping: Toward the robust-perception age,” IEEE
Trans. Robot., vol. 32, no. 6, pp. 1309–1332, 2016.
[10] W. Yang, H. Hu, K.-w. Tse, S. Chen, W. Wen, and C.-y. Wen,
“Lidar stereo visual inertial pose estimation based on feedforward and
feedbacks,” in Int. Conf. Unmanned Aircraft Syst. (ICUAS).
IEEE,
2024, pp. 1042–1049.
[11] I. Armeni, Z.-Y. He, J. Gwak, A. R. Zamir, M. Fischer, J. Malik, and
S. Savarese, “3d scene graph: A structure for unified semantics, 3d space,
and camera,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Int. Conf. Comput. Vis., 2019, pp.
5664–5673.
[12] A. Krizhevsky, I. Sutskever, and G. E. Hinton, “Imagenet classification
with deep convolutional neural networks,” in Adv. Neural Inf. Process.
Syst., 2012, pp. 1097–1105.
[13] A. Geiger, P. Lenz, C. Stiller, and R. Urtasun, “Vision meets robotics:
The kitti dataset,” Int. J. Robot. Res., vol. 32, no. 11, pp. 1231–1237,
2013.
[14] W. Yang, H. Luo, K.-W. Tse, H. Hu, K. Liu, B. Li, and C.-Y. Wen,
“Autonomous targetless extrinsic calibration of thermal, rgb, and lidar
sensors,” IEEE Trans. Instrum. Meas., vol. 73, pp. 1–11, 2024.
[15] T. Qin, P. Li, and S. Shen, “Vins-mono: A robust and versatile monocular
visual-inertial state estimator,” IEEE Trans. Robot., vol. 34, no. 4, pp.
1004–1020, 2018.
[16] G. P. Huang, A. I. Mourikis, and S. I. Roumeliotis, “Observability-based
rules for designing consistent ekf slam estimators,” Int. J. Robot. Res.,
vol. 29, no. 5, pp. 502–528, 2010.
528
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:47:24 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
