Autonomous UAV Navigation and Mapping for Accurate Fruit
Detection and Counting in Controlled Environments: Simulation and
Real-World Validation
Kush Garg1, Nishant Chandna2, Somin Aggarwal3, Chirag Sehgal4, Arjun Gupta5 and Prof. Rajesh Rohilla6
Abstract— This paper presents a solution for high accuracy
fruit counting in a Controlled Environment Agriculture (CEA)
settings using Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV) implemented
in simulation and real-world scenarios. Using the fine-tuned
YOLOv8 [1] model for precise object detection and classifica-
tion along with a custom path planning algorithm for simula-
tion. This approach integrates a hybrid A* Traveling Salesman
Problem (TSP) algorithm for efficient 3D path planning. The
solution is further extended to the real-life scenario using
LiDAR based mapping and point-cloud filtering techniques
to avoid recounting of fruits. The suggested methodology
increases operating efficiency, reduces dependency on human
labor, and improves accuracy. Experimental results, derived
from both simulations and real-world testing, achieving a fruit-
count accuracy of 98% and 90% respectively, demonstrate the
effectiveness of this integrated approach. This solution was
implemented in the International Conference of Unmanned
Aircraft System (ICUAS) [2] UAV Competition 2024, securing
2nd position in the simulation phase (out of 24 teams) and 3rd
overall in the real-world phase.
I. INTRODUCTION
Agriculture has evolved significantly over the centuries,
transitioning from traditional, labor-intensive practices to
highly autonomous and data-driven systems. Controlled En-
vironment Agriculture (CEA) [3], which involves growing
crops in optimized, enclosed settings, has emerged as a
promising approach to meet global food demands sustain-
ably. The development in the sector of Unmanned Aerial
Systems in recent years has shown promising progress within
agricultural domains [4].
This paper introduces an approach that utilizes Unmanned
Aerial Vehicles (UAV) to accurately maneuver, detect, local-
ize and count fruits in a highly controlled environment such
as a greenhouse.
1,2,3 *These authors contributed equally to this work.
1Department of Applied Mathematics, Delhi Technological University,
110042, New Delhi, India kushgarg 23mc079@dtu.ac.in
2Department
of
Mechanical
Engineering,
Delhi
Technological
University,
110042,
New
Delhi,
India
nishantchandna 23ch049@dtu.ac.in
3Department
of
Information
Technology,
Delhi
Technological
University,
110042,
New
Delhi,
India
sominaggarwal 23it161@dtu.ac.in
4Department
of
Computer
Science,
Delhi
Tech-
nological
University,
110042,
New
Delhi,
India
chiragsehgal co22a3 56@dtu.ac.in
5Department of Electronics and Communication, Delhi Technological
University, 110042, New Delhi, India arjun222gupta@gmail.com
6Department of Electronics and Communication, Delhi Technological
University, 110042, New Delhi, India rajesh@dce.ac.in
The problem statement is defined as a task, for a UAV to
autonomously count different kinds of fruit in specific plant
beds in a CEA. Focusing on high accuracy, minimizing time,
and total path to be taken.
Our contributions include: (1) A custom hybrid A* Trav-
eling Salesman Problem (TSP) algorithm [5] for computa-
tionally efficient path planning in structured CEA settings
reducing path length and travel time. (2) LiDAR-Camera
fusion to globally localize the region of interest (here fruit)
along with tracking fruits over a series of frames to improve
fruit-count accuracy (3) Pipeline which achieves 98% fruit-
count accuracy in simulation and 90% accuracy in real-world
greenhouse scenario.
We initially ground our proposed methodology by im-
plementing it in a simulated environment. We interpret
the environment as a graph-based problem by considering
individual plant beds as graph nodes with connections based
on their relative spatial positions. On successful creation of
nodes, it can be viewed as a single-agent multiple-objective
problem, analogous to the TSP. Informed search methods are
used that are computationally optimized by incorporating a
heuristic, like time, to discover the most efficient path to
achieve the goal.
Once the UAV reaches the designated location. Data
collected from IMU, RGB and Depth Camera undergoes
image angle correction and depth segmentation [6], after
which it is sent to a fine-tuned YOLOv8 model [1] for object
detection. Subsequently, the detected objects are processed
by a custom algorithm that accurately localizes and counts
them.
The work was validated through the 2024 International
Conference on Unmanned Aircraft Systems’ UAV Compe-
tition [2], where our team secured 2nd position among 24
international teams [7]. The simulated setting is shown in
Figure 1. Accurate fruit counting, amount of time spent
traversing, and path length were used as evaluation criteria
for the competition.
The challenge environment runs on a Linux Ubuntu 20.04
LTS server running ROS Noetic (Robot Operating System)
in Gazebo11.
The second phase of our methodology focuses on imple-
mentation in real-world scenario, in a non-ideal environment.
For such environments, this approach includes visual track-
ing of fruit and using LiDAR Camera fusion to localize fruits
in global frame ensuring consistent 3D world coordinates
independent of the orientation of the UAV. This approach
2025 International Conference on
Unmanned Aircraft Systems (ICUAS)
May 14-17, 2025. North Carolina, USA
979-8-3315-1328-3/25/$31.00 ©2025 IEEE
243
2025 International Conference on Unmanned Aircraft Systems (ICUAS) | 979-8-3315-1328-3/25/$31.00 ©2025 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/ICUAS65942.2025.11007888
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:44:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

ensures that the same fruit is not counted multiple times.
Further point cloud filtering techniques were implemented
to improve accuracy.
This approach was extensively tested using data from
the 2024 ICUAS UAV Competition final phase. The data
comprised an RGB camera feed and its corresponding Li-
DAR, IMU and GPS data in the form of ROSBAG files.
The data was collected from UAV operating in a real-world
agricultural environment featuring fruits in yellow and red.
II. LITERATURE REVIEW
Accurate fruit detection and counting in controlled agri-
cultural environments, such as greenhouses, has been an
active area of research due to its potential to automate labor
intensive tasks and optimize yield estimation.
Traditional computer vision techniques, such as those
by [8], relied on fruit detection and color segmentation.
However, these approaches tend to fail under partial oc-
clusions and varying lighting conditions. To address these
limitations, a combination of YOLOv8-s model and multi-
frame fruit tracking is utilized, showing reliable results in
both simulation and real-world settings.
For UAV path planning in 3D environments, When deter-
mining the optimal sequence of nodes to visit, the problem
can be formulated as a TSP. Existing solutions such as
brute-force search and genetic algorithms tend to be com-
putationally intensive and greedy algorithms do not provide
satisfactory approximations. To overcome these issues, a
hybrid approach combining A* [9], the Minimum Spanning
Tree algorithm [10], and the Christofides algorithm [11] is
proposed, which yields near-optimal solutions with signifi-
cantly reduced computational complexity.
In context of 3D mapping, researchers have widely us
ed LiDAR-Camera sensor fusion approach [12] instead of
monocular depth estimation [13] for high precision fruit
localization and mapping, but are prone to drift and noise,
which this paper solves by assigning confidence values to
each fruit cluster tracked over a series of frames, ensuring
high precision.
III. METHODOLOGY
We build our solution in two stages: The first stage models
the problem statement in a simulation environment, this facil-
itates iterative evaluation of the path planning algorithms and
basic testing for fruit detection. The second stage explores
transfer of our solution to real-world scenarios.
A. Simulation
The orchard environment, as shown in Fig. 1 features
27 plant beds arranged in 3 rows, and stacked across 3
levels. Each plant bed contains up to three plants with
three fruit varieties: Tomato (red), Pepper (yellow), and
Eggplant (purple). The front and back side of the plants are
asymmetrical, making it possible for a fruit to be visible from
the front but not from the back, or from both sides.
The UAV is permitted to navigate along and around the
shelves but is restricted from flying between or directly above
the plant beds.
Fig. 1.
Simulation Environment
An orchard farm is a systematic and static environment,
which allows the use of exact layout and coordinate system
of the orchard environment in simulation as well as real-
world scenarios. This approach involves simplifying the
environment into a grid structure, where each node represents
the location of points of interest. The point of interest can
be the front or back of the plant and the side nodes to go
to the next row of plant beds. The edges connecting these
nodes represent permissible paths for the UAV to travel.
There are weighted nodes for each plant bed, front and
back separately (2×n nodes for n plant beds), and 6 nodes
each on the left and right ends of each row, for traversing
to the next row (12×r nodes for r rows). For this scenario
consisting of 27 beds and 3 rows, there are a total of 90
nodes. These nodes are calculated as the environment is
known a priori and are plotted as shown in Fig. 2.
Fig. 2.
Environment simplified to grid structure
1) Path Planning: It is essential to count the maximum
number of fruits in the least amount of time.
Factors considered in optimality include: 1) Temporal Effi-
ciency : Reducing the time required by UAV to reach nodes.
2) Energy Consumption: Reducing path length and ensur-
ing minimum altitude changes. 3) Computation Resources:
Optimizing for efficient use
The aim is to find the best route to visit the front and
back of n different plant beds. Path planning is reduced to
two sub problems which include finding the shortest path
between any 2 nodes along the permissible edges, and the
TSP that is to formulate the sequence of nodes to be visited
244
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:44:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

for the optimal path.
a) Determining the optimal path: To find the most
optimal path between any 2 nodes, we use the A* algorithm
[14] with weighted nodes and multiple heuristic functions.
The algorithm consists of 3 key heuristic functions: The
combined heuristic h(n, g) is given by:
h(n, g) = hd(n, g) + hyaw(n) + haltitude(n)
(1)
1) Euclidean Distance (hd): Euclidean distance between
the current node and goal
hd(n, g) =
q
(xn −xg)2 + (yn −yg)2 + (zn −zg)2
(2)
2) Yaw Requirement (hyaw): Cost associated with nec-
essary yaw adjustments, kyaw denotes the UAV’s yaw
angle, expressed in radians.
hyaw(n) = kyaw·
  yawn+1 −yawn + π

mod 2π

−π

(3)
3) Altitude Weight (hyaw): Higher weights are assigned
to nodes at greater altitudes. Here, zn denotes the
altitude of the UAV at the nth node.
haltitude(n) = kaltitude · (zn+1 −zn)
(4)
The three heuristics are designed with real-world scenarios
in mind. Gaining altitude is more time and energy-consuming
than descending. In addition, yaw plays a crucial role in
time efficiency. Since the UAV must assess both the front
and back of the orchard, it occasionally needs to perform
a full 180-degree yaw. By factoring in yaw beforehand, we
can command the UAV to yaw during its approach to the
desired point, optimizing its path planning accordingly, and
by considering it as a heuristic, the proposed algorithm can
take better consideration when to prefer a node with yaw for
an optimal solution.
b) Determining the sequence of nodes: For scenarios
requiring inspection of specific plant beds (e.g. fruits at
different growth stages), it is essential to determine the
optimal sequence for visiting the nodes, minimizing both the
total distance traveled and the time taken.
An informed approach is used since traversing the farm
row by row is the most efficient method, as completing one
row before moving to the next minimizes unnecessary travel.
Movement between rows can only occur by exiting at the end
of a row, as transitions from the middle are not possible.
Returning to a previous row would inevitably increase travel
time, so this sequential approach optimizes overall efficiency.
This approach enables a structured traversal of nodes by
dividing the farm into distinct segments, traversing each
horizontal corridor individually. The algorithm is applied
separately to each face.
First we generate a distance matrix for the desired points,
where the values in the matrix represent the total weight of
the traveled path proposed by the modified A* algorithm.
Further we implement a comprehensive optimization in-
formed approach using a combination of Minimum Spanning
Tree (MST) and Christofides algorithm.
On nodes of each face, by applying a Minimum Spanning
Tree, we determine the initial sequence of nodes to visit.
However, this resulted in some nodes having multiple paths
from the same node. To address this issue, Christofides
algorithm ensures that each node has only two connections,
allowing the UAV to maintain a continuous path. This
approach leads to highly optimal path due to the simplicity
of the environment.
This process returns the sequence of nodes that the UAV
should visit on each face and A* Algorithm returns the path
between respective nodes. Combining this, a mission is cre-
ated using the resulting list of nodes and their corresponding
yaw angles to be sent to the UAV.
This algorithm reduces the computational complexity sig-
nificantly for 3D path planning while maintaining robust
performance in structured static orchard environments.
Fig. 3.
Application of Depth based filtering and IMU correction on the
data captured in the environment.
Fig. 4.
Localizing fruits on multiple views of the same plant bed in the
simulation environment.
2) Perception: Once arrived at the designated plant bed,
the task is to accurately count the number of fruits. The
simulation involves three classes of fruits, each represented
by a different color. (Tomato (red), Pepper (yellow), and
Eggplant (purple)). These fruit beds need to be assessed from
two perspectives: front and back. An additional task is to
localize the fruits. This step is essential for identifying fruits
that are visible from both sides, which may otherwise lead
to an inaccurate count for each fruit class.
Since the simulation provides ideal conditions with noise-
less data, the model performs accurately with minimal false
positives. However, the absence of noise also results in all
fruits within the frame being detected, even those located far
from the area of interest.
Depth-based filtering is employed using data from a depth
camera. Accurate threshold values were determined based on
the distance between successive fruit shelves and the variance
in UAV positioning, allowing precise segmentation of objects
of interest from the rest of the frame, illustrated in Fig. 3.
For orientation correction, the UAV’s Inertial Measure-
ment Unit (IMU) data is used to obtain the orientation at the
245
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:44:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

TABLE I
EVALUATION OF OUR APPROACH IN DIFFERENT SCENARIOS WITHIN THE
GAZEBO ENVIRONMENT. EACH PLANT BED IS ASSIGNED A NUMBER,
AND THE BEDS COLUMN INDICATES THE ONES TO BE VISITED
Sim
Beds
GT Fruits
Predicted
Accuracy
1
8,9,11,16,21,25
12
12
100
2
8,9,16
0
0
100
3
1,15,16,20,21,27
12
12
100
4
3,10,12,23,25,27
11
11
100
5
1,6,13,15,17,19,25
5
5
100
6
1-27
35
33
94.28
7
2,3,4,16,20,24,26
18
18
100
8
1,2,6,7,13,14
22
21
95.45
9
2,3,17,18,20,21,23
17
17
100
10
1,3,5,7,8,13,25
15
15
100
11
4,12,14,17,18,19,22
11
11
100
12
1,3,10,21,22,24,25
15
13
86.67
Mean Accuracy (%):
98.18
time of image capture, which helps rotate the image so that
plants are properly aligned within the frame. After applying
depth segmentation and orientation correction, the YOLO
model provides effective localization and classification of the
plant beds and fruits.
As the drone reaches a target location, multiple images
are captured for pre-processing and detection. The images are
filtered based on the number of plant beds present, removing
any outlier images where the plant bed count deviates from
the median. A similar process is applied to filter images
based on fruit counts.
The UAV captures both front and back views of each plant
during its visit. These are matched using known ground truth
plant positions, and a final image is selected for each view
after processing. To determine the effective fruit count, the
distance from the front fruit to the left and upper edges of
the plant bed, and from the back fruit to the right and upper
edges, is considered. If the difference is within a specific
threshold, the fruit is counted as the same across both views.
To further refine this method and avoid double-counting, the
difference in the ratio of distance to width/height is used
instead, effectively locating fruits relative to the plant bed.
(as shown in Fig. 4)
Now, the fruit count of a shelf is stored, and the drone
moves to next shelf. The fruit count of all the shelves is
added to give the final fruit count.
3) Results: The Gazebo-based simulation environment
provided an ideal space for the development of the path
planning algorithm which can be directly applied to any
Controlled Environment Agriculture setting resembling the
simulation environment. We were able to test both the
Path planning and the perception algorithm multiple times
in different cases and scenarios (as shown in Table I).
The Perception algorithm pre-processes the data so that the
YOLOv8-S model can run effortlessly. The fruit counting
algorithm prevents any double counting of the fruits, giving
an accuracy of 98.18%
The Results are showcased in Fig. 5. A cumulative score
Fig. 5.
Performance evaluation of this approach on unseen configurations
in the ICUAS’24 UAV Competition.
of 94.80 was achieved, which combines the following factors
- Fruit Count Accuracy, Total Time Taken and Total distance
traversed.
B. Real-World Scenario
This phase of the methodology focuses on real-world
implementation. In contrast to the idealized simulation envi-
ronment, it introduces the challenge of noisy data leading to
double counting of fruits and inaccurate detection. To address
these challenges, we propose solutions ensuring system can
perform effectively under real-word conditions.
To avoid double counting of the same fruit, we localize the
fruits in global coordinate frame. As a result, if the drone
revisits the same fruit, the system recognizes it as already
detected, preventing any redundant counting.
1) Hardware Configuration: We use a Kopterworx Hawk
quadcopter equipped with an integrated Intel RealSense
D415 camera [15] for capturing visual data and a Velodyne
VLP-16 LiDAR [16] for depth sensing. An RTK-enabled
GPS module provides centimeter-level positioning accuracy.
The data is recorded from the IMU, GPS, LiDAR, and the
video feed from the camera in a ROSBAG, along with their
timestamps to ensure synchronization.
2) Coordinate Transformation: In real-world scenarios,
the GPS provides latitude and longitude of the drone but for
easier analysis, we convert it to local ENU (East North Up)
Frame [17] in meters with respect to the origin as the UAV
takeoff position geo coordinates. We further transform the
ENU coordinates by incorporating the known offset between
the GPS module and the LiDAR to ensure that coordinates
are in LiDAR’s reference frame.
3) Mapping: To accurately map LiDAR points in the
ENU Coordinate frame. The LiDAR 3D point cloud captured
in UAV’s frame is rotated based on UAV’s roll, pitch and yaw
angles obtained from onboard IMU.
The rotation matrices [18] are applied to point cloud to
account for the UAV’s orientation in the local ENU frame.
The full rotation is represented as:
Protated = Ryaw · Rpitch · Rroll · P
(5)
246
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:44:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Fig. 6.
Environment mapping demonstrated by registering the transformed
point cloud over time
Where Rroll, Rpitch, Ryaw are the rotation matrices corre-
sponding to the roll, pitch, and yaw angles of the UAV,
and Protated is the transformed point in the rotated frame.
The transformed point cloud coordinates are added to the
corresponding UAV coordinates obtained from section III-
B.2. After plotting the transformed point cloud over time,
we get a 3D map of the environment (as shown in Fig. 6)
4) Camera-LiDAR Fusion: 3D coordinates with respect
to each pixel of camera image are calculated using Camera-
LiDAR Fusion. The first step is calibration [19]. It establishes
a common reference frame between the sensors. Calibration
enables combining point cloud data from LiDAR and vi-
sual frames from the camera feed. Intrinsic calibration was
performed using an AprilTag grid for estimation of these
parameters. KC represents the camera’s intrinsic matrix. For
extrinsic calibration, the transformation between LiDAR and
camera coordinates is represented by:
ZC


u
v
1

= KC
R
t


XL
YL
ZL
1

.
(6)
where R and t denote the rotation matrix and translation
vector between LiDAR and camera coordinates, respectively.
In the above equation, XL, YL, and ZL represent x, y,
and z corresponding to the LiDAR’s frame of reference.
Using this approach, we achieved accurate Camera-LiDAR
calibration as shown in Fig. 7.
Fig. 7.
Demonstration of fruit detection in image frame, followed by
localization using coordinate information derived from Camera-LiDAR
fusion.
Fig. 8.
3D map showcasing detected fruits within a controlled orchard
environment, with each cluster of points representing an individual fruit.
5) Perception: The Real-World implementation required
the detection of two kinds of fruit - Yellow and Red.
For detection and classification, the pre-trained YOLOv8-
S model was used and fine-tuned on data collected from
the greenhouse. The model offers a minimal accuracy-speed
tradeoff compared to larger variants. It is able to detect both
fruits with high accuracy, as shown in Fig. 7; however, some
background regions were misclassified as yellow, leading to a
few false positives. The confidence scores of such detections
were low, thus a confidence threshold value was chosen to
filter out these redundant detections.
6) Fruit Tracking and Filtering: The pixels corresponding
to detected fruits are used to derive their 3D coordinates,
as explained in section III-B.4. These coordinates are then
mapped to form 3D fruit clusters in ENU frame, follow-
ing the methodology detailed in section III-B.3. Further
clustering techniques are applied to count the number of
fruits. However, due to the dense and bushy nature of the
plants, even slight delays in data synchronization lead to false
mapping of branches or leaves in place of fruits, leading to
an increase in False Positives.
To solve this issue, the center pixel value of each fruit
in a camera frame was tracked for 30 consecutive image
frames. The pixel value and its corresponding 3D coordinate
were saved in memory temporarily. If the change in center
pixel value was less than a certain threshold, it made it
certain that all the 3D points collected in those respective
frames correspond to the same fruit. If the number of points
exceeded a threshold of 15 points for each tracked fruit, they
were assigned a fruit number, else they were discarded from
memory.
The fruits that are assigned a number are now statistically
filtered. Points deviating significantly from the mean were
removed. This ensured that all faulty 3D points of branches
or leaves are filtered out. Now, every new cluster is compared
to an existing one, if the new cluster is overlapping another
formed cluster, then it is certain that they are the same fruit,
if not then the cluster is assigned a new fruit number. This
ensured that a fruit is not counted twice in cases where
tracking of fruit is lost or the UAV returns back to the same
fruit later some point in time, or views the fruit from the
back or side angle. This approach filtered noisy data to a
great extent as seen in Fig. 8. The small yellow circles depict
the noisy point cloud, and large yellow circles correspond to
final fruit filtered from the noisy data.
7) Results: The YOLOv8 model produces precise bound-
ing boxes of both kinds of fruits even in the case of
247
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:44:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

occlusions, which with the help of LiDAR-camera Fusion
and localization gives the coordinates of the fruit. We were
successfully able to count fruits in a real-life environment
with a precision of 90.12% for red fruits and 87.21% for
yellow fruits (shown in Table II) using the proposed approach
by filtering out noisy data. A major challenge was fruits
being partially occluded by leaves which led to the mapping
of leaves in place of the fruit. This was solved by visually
tracking the fruit for consecutive frames and filtering out
points away from the dense fruit cluster. Our solution was
also validated under non-ideal conditions in the ICUAS 2024
UAV Competition final phase achieving 3rd Position Overall.
TABLE II
EVALUATES OUR APPROACH FOR BOTH YELLOW AND RED FRUITS
ACROSS VARIOUS FRUIT CONFIGURATIONS
Ground Truth
Detected
Precision (%)
Yellow
Red
Yellow
Red
Yellow
Red
Flight 1
12
8
14
10
85.71
80.00
Flight 2
14
14
16
13
87.50
92.86
Flight 3
15
11
17
12
88.24
91.67
Flight 4
11
13
13
12
84.62
92.31
Flight 5
18
16
20
15
90.00
93.75
Mean
87.21
90.12
IV. CONCLUSION
In conclusion, we present our solution that effectively
combines multiple approaches to provide a complete UAV
system for automating agriculture activities. Our base
methodology was deployed and tested in a simulated en-
vironment, helping us to identify the most efficient path-
planning strategies. The initial implementation in the simu-
lation also allowed us to refine our basic formulation of the
environment. For the task of fruit counting and localization
the simulation provided an ideal environment and therefore
we observe almost 100 % accuracy in each of the runs for
the task of fruit counting and localization. This is due to the
fact that all captured photos in the train and test times belong
to the same domain causing almost no variation in data.
For the real-world scenario, the part of energy efficiency
in path planning was directly transferrable. On the other
hand, the challenging tasks include accurate camera-LiDAR
calibration despite of slight changes in extrinsic proper-
ties. Another important aspect came in with correctly re-
identifying the same fruits. To tackle the above mentioned,
we presented point cloud filtering strategies and approaches
that rely on independent visual and point cloud based track-
ing for accurate fruit counting.
The future aspects involve implementing the solution in
different agricultural settings and making this algorithm more
robust and accurate. We will also incorporate the ability to
detect the condition of the fruit, its stages of growth, and the
presence of insects and weeds to provide the farmer with the
entire overview of the agricultural field.
REFERENCES
[1] G. Jocher, J. Qiu, and A. Chaurasia, “Ultralytics YOLO,” Jan. 2023.
[Online]. Available: https://github.com/ultralytics/ultralytics
[2] I. Association, “Proceedings of the international conference on
unmanned aircraft systems (icuas),” in 2024 International Conference
on Unmanned Aircraft Systems (ICUAS).
ICUAS, 2024. [Online].
Available: https://uasconferences.com/2024 icuas/
[3] R. R. Shamshiri, F. Kalantari, K. C. Ting, K. R. Thorp, I. A.
Hameed, C. Weltzien, D. Ahmad, and Z. Shad, “Advances in
greenhouse automation and controlled environment agriculture: A
transition to plant factories and urban agriculture,” International
Journal of Agricultural and Biological Engineering, vol. 11, pp. 1–22,
2018. [Online]. Available: https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:
51783353
[4] J. Kim, S. Kim, C. Ju, and H. Son, “Unmanned aerial vehicles
in agriculture: A review of perspective of platform, control, and
applications,” IEEE Access, vol. PP, pp. 1–1, 07 2019.
[5] E. L. Lawler, J. K. Lenstra, A. H. Rinnooy Kan, and D. B. Shmoys,
The Traveling Salesman Problem: A Guided Tour of Combinatorial
Optimization.
Chichester, UK: Wiley, 1985.
[6] M. Anti´c, A. Zdeˇsar, and I. ˇSkrjanc, “Depth-image segmentation
based on evolving principles for 3d sensing of structured indoor
environments,” Sensors, vol. 21, no. 13, 2021. [Online]. Available:
https://www.mdpi.com/1424-8220/21/13/4395
[7] ICUAS Competition Organizers, “ICUAS 2024 Competition Results:
Final Standings,” GitHub Discussion, 2024, accessed: 2024-05-
20. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/larics/icuas24 competition/
discussions/52
[8] A. Syal, D. Garg, and S. Sharma, “Apple fruit detection and count-
ing using computer vision techniques,” in 2014 IEEE International
Conference on Computational Intelligence and Computing Research,
2014, pp. 1–6.
[9] P. Hart, N. Nilsson, and B. Raphael, “A formal basis for the heuristic
determination of minimum cost paths,” IEEE Transactions on Systems
Science and Cybernetics, vol. 4, no. 2, pp. 100–107, 1968. [Online].
Available: https://doi.org/10.1109/tssc.1968.300136
[10] A.-A. Mamun and S. Rajasekaran, “An efficient minimum spanning
tree algorithm,” in 2016 IEEE Symposium on Computers and Com-
munication (ISCC), 2016, pp. 1047–1052.
[11] N. Christofides, “Worst-case analysis of a new heuristic for the
traveling salesman problem,” Carnegie Mellon University, vol. 3, p. 10,
03 2022.
[12] K. Zhang, P. Chu, K. Lammers, Z. Li, and R. Lu, “Active laser-camera
scanning for high-precision fruit localization in robotic harvesting:
System design and calibration,” Horticulturae, vol. 10, no. 1, 2024.
[Online]. Available: https://www.mdpi.com/2311-7524/10/1/40
[13] V. Jain, A. Anunay, A. Srivastava, A. Gupta, N. Aggarwal, and
H. Harikesh, “Depth estimation using monocular camera for real-
world multi-object grasp detection for robotic arm,” in Proceedings
of the 2023 8th International Conference on Systems, Control and
Communications, ser. ICSCC ’23.
New York, NY, USA: Association
for Computing Machinery, 2024, p. 7–18. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1145/3634865.3634869
[14] T. Jia, S. Han, P. Wang, W. Zhang, and Y. Chang, “Dynamic obstacle
avoidance path planning for uav,” in 2020 3rd International Confer-
ence on Unmanned Systems (ICUS), 2020, pp. 814–818.
[15] I. Corporation, “Intel® RealSense™Depth Camera D415 Product
Specifications,” 2018. [Online]. Available: https://www.intelrealsense.
com/depth-camera-d415/
[16] I. Velodyne Lidar, “Velodyne VLP-16 Puck LiDAR Sensor,” 2024,
[Online]. [Online]. Available: https://ouster.com/products/hardware/
vlp-16
[17] B. Hofmann-Wellenhof, H. Lichtenegger, and E. Wasle, Global Posi-
tioning System: Theory and Practice.
Springer Science & Business
Media, 2008.
[18] R. Hartley and A. Zisserman, Multiple View Geometry in Computer
Vision.
Cambridge University Press, 2003.
[19] G. Yan, F. He, C. Shi, P. Wei, X. Cai, and Y. Li, “Joint camera intrinsic
and lidar-camera extrinsic calibration,” in 2023 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2023, pp. 11 446–
11 452.
248
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:44:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
