An ASABE – CSBE/ASABE Joint 
Meeting Presentation 
 
Paper Number: 141888882 
Identification of Repetitive Apples for Improved Crop-Load Estimation 
with Dual-Side Imaging 
Aleana Gongal 
Department of Biological Systems Engineering, Center for Precision and Automated Agricultural 
Systems, Washington State University, aleana.gongal@wsu.edu 
  Suraj Amatya 
Department of Biological Systems Engineering, Center for Precision and Automated Agricultural 
Systems, Washington State University, suraj.amatya@wsu.edu 
Manoj Karkee 
Department of Biological Systems Engineering, Center for Precision and Automated Agricultural 
Systems, Washington State University, manoj.karkee@wsu.edu 
 
Written for presentation at the 
2014 ASABE and CSBE/SCGAB Annual International Meeting 
Sponsored by ASABE 
Montreal, Quebec Canada 
July 13 – 16, 2014 
Abstract. Accurate crop-load estimation is essential for efficient management of pre- and post-harvesting 
operations in apple orchards. Machine vision systems have been widely investigated in the past for fruit 
identification and crop load estimation, but the methods have achieved only limited success due to various 
factors. One primary factor affecting the accuracy of such systems is occlusion of apples due to branches, 
leaves and other apples. This issue could be addressed by imaging trees from two sides of a tree canopy, 
which can substantially increase visibility of apples. However, challenge would be to identify repetitive apples 
which are visible from both sides. If repeated counting is not avoided, there will be a substantial overestimation 
of crop-load. In this study, a three-dimensional (3D) camera along with a color camera was used to obtain 3D 
location information and color images of apples. Apples identified in the color images were transformed to a 
global 3D coordinate space. In the global 3D coordinate space, two instances of the same apple identified from 
two sides overlapped with each other. A threshold overlap distance was used to categorize apples into 
repeated or non-repeated groups. Mean absolute error in identifying repetitive apples was 12% when buffer 
distance of full apple diameter was used. The results are promising to avoid duplicate counting of apples, which 
may substantially increase the accuracy of apple crop-load estimation with dual-side imaging. 
Keywords. Repetitive apples, apple orchards, machine vision, 3D sensor, crop-load estimation  
 
The authors are solely responsible for the content of this meeting presentation. The presentation does not necessarily reflect the official
position of the American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers (ASABE), and its printing and distribution does not constitute an
endorsement of views which may be expressed. Meeting presentations are not subject to the formal peer review process by ASABE
editorial committees; therefore, they are not to be presented as refereed publications. Citation of this work should state that it is from an
ASABE meeting paper. EXAMPLE: Author’s Last Name, Initials. 2014. Title of Presentation. ASABE Paper No. ---. St. Joseph, Mich.: 
ASABE. For information about securing permission to reprint or reproduce a meeting presentation, please contact ASABE at 
rutter@asabe.org or 269-932-7004 (2950 Niles Road, St. Joseph, MI 49085-9659 USA). 

2014 ASABE – CSBE/SCGAB Annual International Meeting Paper 
Page 1 
1. Introduction: 
Specialty crop production such as apples, cherries and grapes is highly labor intensive and is 
becoming less sustainable with decreasing labor availability and increasing labor cost. Therefore, it is 
essential to develop automation and mechanization technologies that would help reduce the labor 
use and increase the productivity in specialty crop production.  
Different studies have been carried out in the past to automate or mechanize different field 
operations including crop-load estimation. Crop-load estimation is crucial for effective and efficient 
management of orchard operations before and after harvesting. This information is used to make 
better harvesting decisions, and manage labor pool, harvesting equipment, and transportation 
vehicles to minimize the harvesting cost and time. It helps farmers to optimize operation such as 
fertilizer application (Hung, et al, 2013), and thinning, which helps them to obtain marketable quality 
fruit. Packing house can also use this information to improve the efficiency of their operations.  
Machine vision system has been used in the past to estimate crop-load in apples and citrus among 
other fruit crops. For accurate yield estimation, identification of all fruits in tree/orchards is crucially 
important. Studies have been carried out for apple crop-load estimation using various image 
processing methods based on color (Bulanon et al., 2002; Wang et al., 2013; Zhou et al., 2012) and 
shape (Linker et al., 2012). On the other hand, Linker et al., (2012), and Stanjko et al. (2009) 
performed fruit identification combining color, shape and texture-based parameters and reported 
89% and 85% accuracy respectively. Similarly, Ji et al., (2011) used image classification by support 
vector machine based on color and shape-based parameters and reported accuracy of 89%. 
However, high accuracy on fruit identification had always been challenging due to variability in 
canopy structures, and fruit shape and size (Karkee and Zhang, 2012, Linker et al., 2012), 
occlusions (Cohen et al., 2011, Stanjko et al., 2004), multi-fruit clustering, and lighting conditions (Ji 
et al.,2011).  
The major challenge in apple crop-load estimation with machine vision system is the limited visibility 
of apples. Some apples are completely occluded by leaves and branches, which will not be visible in 
the image. Visibility of apples, and consequently crop-load estimation accuracy could be increased if 

2014 ASABE – CSBE/SCGAB Annual International Meeting Paper 
Page 2 
canopies are imaged from multiple sides. However, some apples could be visible in the images 
captured from multiple sides/directions. Apple repeated in images due to multiple side imaging will be 
called repetitive apples in this paper. Multiple counting of those repetitive apples would lead to over-
estimation of apples if not identified and corrected.  
Thus, this study was carried out to identify repetitive apples in images captured from two opposite 
sides of apple tree canopies. A color camera and a 3D sensor were used to capture RGB images 
and 3D location information of apples in a commercial orchard. This technique can be used to avoid 
repeated counting of apples in images captured from multiple directions, leading to an improved 
crop-load estimation. 
2. Materials and Methods: 
2.1 Experimental Setup and data collection: 
A Charged Couples Device (CCD) camera (Prosilica GigE 1290c, Allied Vision Technologies, 
Stadtroda, Germany) was integrated with a time-of-flight based 3D camera (CamCube 3.0, PMD 
Technologies, Siegen, Germany)(Fig.1a) and was mounted in an over-the-row sensor platform. The 
PMD camera provided 3D coordinates and distances to the objects with reference to camera 
coordinate system. CCD camera provided the color information of the objects. Images were captured 
by moving the sensor platform from tree to tree using a field tractor (Fig.1 b). 
Data collection was conducted just before harvesting in commercial plots of Yakima Valley Orchards 
in Prosser and Grandview, WA. The orchards were trained in the tall spindle architecture (Fig. 1c) 
that features a thin fruiting wall canopy structure, which facilitates imaging from two opposite sides of 
the row with better visibility of apples. Images were captured from various heights of the sensor 
platform (six to seven captures were needed to cover a whole tree) form two sides of the row. The 
repetitive apples in the images were identified and counted manually as ground truth. 

2014 ASABE – CSBE/SCGAB Annual International Meeting Paper 
Page 3 
                                   
                                                                                                          
(a) 
(b)  
(c) 
 
 
Figure 1: a) Prosilica GigE CCD Camera and 3D PMD CamCube camera; b) The sensor platform mounted in a tractor; and c) a 
Jazz apple orchard in the tall spindle architecture (Allan Bros., Inc., Naches, WA) 
2.2 Apple Identification 
Apple identification in RGB image from CCD camera was carried our using color and shape 
information. Image segmentation to foreground (apples) and background pixels (noises such as leaf, 
branches) was carried out using Otsu’s method (Gonzalez et al, 2010). The Otsu’s method 
determined the optimum threshold value, which separated the two classes of pixel (i.e. foreground 
and background) in images with minimum intra-class variance between these two group of pixels. 
Morphological dilation followed by erosion with disk shaped structural element was then carried out 
to join narrow breaks, to fill smaller holes and to remove noises.  Geometric properties, area, and 
compactness (Equation 1) of the segmented objects were determined.  
Compactness ൌ
୔ୣ୰୧୫ୣ୲ୣ୰మ
୅୰ୣୟ
 
(1) 
Object filtering was then performed based on area and compactness to remove non-apple objects 
such as leaves and branches that did not have expected area and compactness property to be an 
apple. The filtering operation led to the image with only apple regions on them. In general, image 
processing algorithms used in this work for apple identification were kept simple because the main 
objective of this study was to identify repetitive apples in images captured from multiple sides of a 
canopy (See Sec 2.3).  
2.3 3D Mapping and Identification of Repetitive Apples. 
The three dimensional (3D) camera used for image acquisition provided 3D coordinates of objects 
and their distances with reference to camera coordinates. It also captured intensity, amplitude, and 

2014 ASABE – CSBE/SCGAB Annual International Meeting Paper 
Page 4 
flag information associated with each coordinate measurement. All the apples identified in a color 
image (Sec. 2.2) were registered manually in the intensity image generated by the 3D camera. 
Although final goal of this study is to develop automatic algorithm to register a 2D color image and an 
intensity image from 3D camera so that the manual selection would not be required, manual 
registration was used in this work to minimize the sources of error to prove the major hypothesis that 
repetitive apples can be identified using 3D information. Intensity image and distance image 
recorded by the 3D camera were used to determine corresponding X, Y and Z coordinates of the 
center of identified apples. 
Images captured from two sides of tree canopies had two different camera reference frames, which 
needed to be transformed to a common (global) coordinate system in order to register apples imaged 
from two sides. The parameters for this transformation were determined based on the geometry of 
over-the-row sensor platform, and position and orientation of sensors on the platform. It was 
assumed that camera image planes at two opposite sides were parallel to each other and were 
facing each other. Therefore, a rotation in X-axis by 900 and a translation in Z-axis by the distance 
between the cameras (2.45 - Z coordinates in camera reference frame, in this case) were carried out. 
However, due to varying terrain condition and imperfect rigidity of sensor platform, translation was 
also necessary in X-axis and Y-axis by 0 and 0.05 m and in Z- axis by 2.40 and 2.45m respectively. 
The translation parameter was determined by trial and error method using 5 apples each image from 
at least 25 images. The translation parameter was same for images which was captured in the same 
row. 
After 3D transformation to the common coordinate system, the distance between the apples 
identified in the images captured from two opposite sides were calculated. Inaccuracies of sensors, 
and coregistration and mapping methods might cause some inaccuracies in 3D location and slight 
displacements in apple positions. Therefore, average diameter of the apples was used as the 
threshold for identifying repeated apples. Two apples identified from two sides of a canopy were 
considered the same apple if the distances between the two instances of the apple was less than the 
average apple diameter (0.08 m in this study). Apples were visualized with different colors (for two 

2014 ASABE – CSBE/SCGAB Annual International Meeting Paper 
Page 5 
sides) in a 3D plot for validation. Number of repetitive apples were counted in these plots among all 
the apples identified from two sides of the canopy. False positive and false negative identification 
were also identified and counted for accuracy assessment. The Mean Absolute Percentage Error 
(MAPE) on the repeated apple identification was calculated using equation 2. 
MAPE ൌ
ଵ
୒ ∑
|୬౟౪ି୬ౙ౪|
୬౟౪
୒
୲ୀଵ
 
(2) 
where, nit = Number of identified repetitive apples 
nct= Number of actual repetitive apples 
N= Total number of tree samples 
3. Results and Discussion 
With the 3D information obtained from PMD camera, apples in 266 (133 X 2) images were registered 
in a common coordinates system using 3D transformation. Intensity images from 3D camera 
captured from two sides of a canopy is shown in Fig. 2 and 3D plot of the apples in those images in 
the global coordinate system is shown in the Fig. 3. 
                          
 
a) 
  
                                 b) 
Figure 2: Intensity images taken with a 3D camera from a) front side, and b) back side of a part of a tree canopy in a commercial 
orchard of Allan Bros., Inc. (Naches, WA) 

2014 ASABE – CSBE/SCGAB Annual International Meeting Paper 
Page 6 
 
Figure 3: Registration of apples identified from two opposite sides of an apple tree canopy in 3D space. Overlapping apples 
represent the same apple imaged from the two sides of the same tree canopy. 
With the buffer distance of full diameter and 3/4th of the diameter, accuracy on identifying repetitive 
apple were 83.9% (Table 2) and 89.8% (Table 3) respectively. Out of total repetitive apples only 84.6 
% and 67.69 % of repetitive apple were identified respectively. For full diameter, out of 260 repetitive 
apples, 40 were not identified as repetitive apples (false negative) and 42 apples non-repetitive 
apples were falsely identified as repetitive apples (false positive). Accuracy with buffer distance of a 
full diameter was better in both cases.  
Table 1: False positive and false negative identification of repetitive apples with a buffer distance of average apple diameter.  
Predicted 
Repeated 
Not Repeated 
Accuracy 
Actual 
Repeated 
220 
40 
84.62% 
Not Repeated 
42 
1316 
96.91% 
Accuracy 
83.97% 
97.05% 
Table 2: False positive and false negative identification of repetitive apples with a buffer distance of 3/4
th of the average apple 
diameter. 
Predicted 
Repeated 
Not Repeated 
Accuracy 
Actual 
Repeated 
176 
84 
67.69% 
Not Repeated 
20 
1316 
98.5% 
Accuracy 
89.80% 
94.00% 

2014 ASABE – CSBE/SCGAB Annual International Meeting Paper 
Page 7 
The mean absolute percentage error on identifying the repetitive apples was 11.7%. Inaccuracies on 
identifying repetitive apples are mainly caused due to less-than-desired level of rigidity and 
robustness of the over-the-row sensor platform, which altered the transformation parameter for 3D 
registration between image pairs and between trees. False positives were also caused by 
identification of some of the apples in clusters as repetitive apples because of displacement of their 
3D locations due to inaccuracy in 3D sensing and mapping methods. Errors in apple identification 
also lead to error as in some cases repetitive apples were not identified in both images which leads 
to more false negative. The improvement in rigidity of platform, 3D sensing, and apple identification 
could potentially reduce the false positive, and false negative and improve the overall accuracy on 
identification of repetitive apples.   
Table 3: Mean Absolute Error on Identification of Repetitive apples. 
Tree 
No. 
Repetitive Apple  
Absolute  
Error (%) 
Actual 
Identified
1 
16 
13 
18.75 
2 
15 
14 
6.67 
3 
10 
12 
20 
4 
12 
12 
0 
5 
23 
23 
0 
6 
14 
11 
21.4 
7 
12 
11 
8.33 
8 
8 
11 
37.5 
9 
4 
4 
0 
10 
14 
16 
14.28 
11 
7 
8 
14.28 
12 
14 
13 
7.14 
13 
7 
8 
14.28 
14 
18 
18 
0 
15 
15 
20 
33.33 
16 
11 
12 
9.10 
17 
8 
8 
0 
18 
21 
20 
4.77 
19 
32 
28 
12.5 
Mean Absolute Percentage Error
11.70% 
4. Conclusions:  
Visibility of apples in image has major role in accuracy of crop-load estimation through machine 
vision system. Thus, to increase the visibility of apples in image, apple tree canopies of tall spindle 
architect were imaged from two sides of the row using color and 3D camera. The visibility of apples 
increases significantly from 60% to 97% when dual side imaging was done compared to single side 
imaging. This shows the possibility of increase in accuracy of crop-load estimation with dual side 

2014 ASABE – CSBE/SCGAB Annual International Meeting Paper 
Page 8 
imaging in tall spindle architect. Furthermore, 21% of apple were visible when imaged from dual 
sides of tree canopies. Identification of those apples in dual side imaging will avoid the possibility of 
overestimation of apple counting due to duplicate counting. Therefore, apples identified from both 
sides of tree canopy were mapped together in a 3D space using 3D information. Accuracy on 
identification of repetitive apples by this technique was 82%. This result can further be improved with 
improvement in 3D sensing and mapping techniques. 
In future, a study will be carried out to investigate the improvement in crop-load estimation accuracy 
with dual side imaging. Further study will also be carried out to register 2D color images and 3D 
images so that that an automated, near-real time crop-load estimation system can be developed. 
Improvement in computational efficiency will also be vitally important to develop a commercially 
adoptable system for the use in large operations.   
 
 

2014 ASABE – CSBE/SCGAB Annual International Meeting Paper 
Page 9 
5. References 
Bulanon, D. M., Kataoka, T., Ota, Y., & Hiroma, T. (2002). A Segmentation Algorithm for the 
Automatic Recognition of Fuji Apples at Harvest. Biosystems Engineering, 83(4), 405-412. 
Cohen, O., Linker, R., & Naor, A., (2011). Estimation of the number of apples in color images 
recorded in orchards. (D. Li, Y. Liu, and Y. Chen (Eds.): CCTA 2010, Part I, IFIP International 
Federation for Information Processing AICT 344, pp. 630–642 
Gonzalez C. R, Woods, R. E., & Eddins, S. L., (2010). Digital Image Processing Using Matlab, 2nd 
ed. McGraw Hill Companies. 
Hung, C., Underwood, J., Nieto, J., & Sukkarieh, S. A Feature Learning Based Approach for 
Automated Fruit Yield Estimation.     
http://www.araa.asn.au/fsr/fsr2013/papers/pap129s2.pdf  
Ji, W., Zhao, D., Cheng, F., Xu, B., Zhang, Y., & Wang, J., (2012). Automatic recognition vision 
system guided for apple harvesting robot. Computer and Electrical Engineering 
38(2012):1186–1195. 
Karkee, M., & Zhang, Q., (2012). Mechanization and Automation Technologies in Specialty Crop 
Production, ASABE Resource Magazine, September/October (2012):16–17. 
Linker, R., Cohen, O., & Naor, A., (2012). Determination of the number of green apples in RGB 
images recorded in orchards. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 81 (2012): 45–57 
Stajnko, D., Lakota, M., & Hocevar, M., (2004). Estimation of numbers and diameter of apple fruits in 
an Orchard during the growing season by thermal imaging. Computer and Electronics in 
Agriculture 42(2004): 31–42. 
Stajnko, D., Rakun, J., & Blanke, M., (2009). Modelling apple fruit yield using image analysis for fruit 
color, shape and texture. European journal of horticultural science, 74(6), 260-267. 
Wang, Q., Nuske, S., Bergerman, M., & Singh, S., (2013). Automated crop yield estimation for apple 
orchards.  Experimental Robotics. Springer International Publishing Switzerland, 745-758 
Zhou, R., Damerow, L., Sun,Y., & Blanke, M. M., (2012). Using color features of cv.‘Gala’apple fruits 
in an orchard in image processing to predict yield. Precision Agriculture, 13(5), 568-580. 
 
 
