Apple Counting using Convolutional Neural Networks
Nicolai H¨ani1, Pravakar Roy1 and Volkan Isler1
Abstract— Estimating accurate and reliable fruit and veg-
etable counts from images in real-world settings, such as
orchards, is a challenging problem that has received signiﬁcant
recent attention. Estimating fruit counts before harvest provides
useful information for logistics planning. While considerable
progress has been made toward fruit detection, estimating the
actual counts remains challenging. In practice, fruits are often
clustered together. Therefore, methods that only detect fruits
fail to offer general solutions to estimate accurate fruit counts.
Furthermore, in horticultural studies, rather than a single
yield estimate, ﬁner information such as the distribution of
the number of apples per cluster is desirable. In this work,
we formulate fruit counting from images as a multi-class
classiﬁcation problem and solve it by training a Convolutional
Neural Network. We ﬁrst evaluate the per-image accuracy of
our method and compare it with a state of the art method
based on Gaussian Mixture Models over four test datasets. Even
though the parameters of the Gaussian Mixture Model based
method are speciﬁcally tuned for each dataset, our network
outperforms it in three out of four datasets with a maximum
of 94% accuracy. Next, we use the method to estimate the yield
for two datasets for which we have ground truth. Our method
achieved 96-97% accuracies. For additional details please see
our video here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Le0mb5P-
SYc.
I. INTRODUCTION
Precision agriculture methods are starting to change how
food is produced in our world. There are now commercial
solutions for numerous farming tasks such as monitoring
crop ﬁelds, automatic seeding, harvesting, and packaging.
However, the application domain of precision agriculture
has been primarily limited to commodity crops such as
wheat, rice or maize. Developing solutions for specialty
crops (such as fruits or vegetables) has been challenging due
to the complex geometry of orchards compared to row crops.
Nevertheless, signiﬁcant research in recent years has been
dedicated to automating farming tasks for specialty crops. In
this work, we address a speciﬁc precision agriculture task:
counting apples from images.
Estimating accurate fruit counts at the image level enables
precise yield estimation and mapping. Availability of these
metrics enables farmers to monitor the current state of
their orchard, plan for optimal utilization of their workforce
and make informed decisions before the harvesting process.
In the absence of an automated system, these counts are
currently estimated by manually sampling a few trees at
random and extrapolating these counts to the whole orchard,
*This work was supported by the USDA NIFA MIN-98-G02
1N. H¨ani, P. Roy and V. Isler are with the Department of Com-
puter Science & Engineering, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis,
MN 55455, United States of America {haeni001, royxx268,
isler}@umn.edu
which is inaccurate. Counting information is also valuable
for horticultural studies where scientists collect phenotype
data associated with yield.
Although there has been signiﬁcant progress towards yield
estimation by detecting single fruits under regular environ-
mental conditions, the problem itself remains challenging for
the following reasons: (1) Fruits and vegetables come in all
shapes, sizes, and colors. Even when only concentrating on
a particular fruit, such as apples in our case, there is still
a signiﬁcant color variety in the data. (2) Fruits often grow
in clusters of arbitrary size and shape. (3) They are often
occluded either by other fruits, branches or leaves.
In this paper, the main question we would like to answer is:
Given an image and detected clusters of fruits, can existing
neural network architectures be leveraged to count the fruits?
An example is shown in Fig. 1.
(a) Given an image and detected
fruit
(b) Determine fruit counts
Fig. 1: Input and output of the proposed fruit counting
algorithm
In this paper, we show that counting of clustered fruit can
be formulated as a classiﬁcation problem. Our method takes
images and detected regions of fruits clusters as inputs and
predicts a single count per cluster. Once the model is learned
we are able to predict correct counts in up to 94% of the
cases. The network is evaluated on data of large variety: (1)
Fruit colors vary from red to green; (2) Data contains fruits
on trees and on the ground; (3) Data were collected from
different tree rows and throughout the year; (4) Illumination
conditions vary from cloudy to sunny; (5) data were collected
arXiv:2208.11566v1  [cs.CV]  24 Aug 2022

Fig. 2: Steps for automated yield estimation
at varying distances between the sensor and trees. The key
contributions are:
• A method to predict fruit counts from a single look at
an image patch without the need of prior segmentation,
ﬁne-tuning of any parameters or a subsequent algorithm
for counting.
• An analysis of image-based counting performance over
four datasets as well as an evaluation of our method
on the task of complete yield estimation. We provide
one of the ﬁrst studies that use multiple, RGB-only
datasets from multiple tree varieties and multiple years
to test the performance of deep learning methods on the
counting task.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows: Section II
presents related work on the topic of yield estimation. The
problem is deﬁned in Section III. Experiments together with
strengths and weaknesses are presented in Section IV. In
Section V we discuss our results and future work.
II. RELATED WORK
Various approaches have been proposed to count fruits,
both in indoor and outdoor environments. The proposed
methods differ in the sensors used (RGB- [1]–[4], thermal-
[5], and spectral- cameras [6] as well as LIDAR [7]) and
in the amount of control that is exercised over the test
setup. Multiple systems have tried to restrict measurements
to speciﬁc times of the day [8], [9]. Some rely on using
a mobile canopy that is put over the crop rows [10]. Such
methods are costly and difﬁcult to apply. Ideally, a solution
to the fruit counting problem should be platform independent
and not rely on special sensors nor controlled environments.
A. Fruit Detection
Counting fruits by detection is a well-studied problem in
the literature. Early systems were dominated by hand-crafted
color thresholds [8], [11]. More recently, researchers have
leveraged the predictive power of modern machine learning
techniques to learn a combination of features to robustly
detect fruits. Advances in deep learning have led to the
adoption of neural networks for fruit detection. Zhou et
al. [1] used a back propagation network to classify the image
into apple and background pixels. After segmentation, they
used edge detection and Hough Transform to detect single
apple instances that are summed up in order to obtain a
count. Bargoti and Underwood [12] used Multi-Scale Multi-
Layered Perceptrons (MLP) together with a CNN for apple
and almond detection. Stein et al. [7] proposed a multi-sensor
framework, consisting of a camera and LIDAR for mango
counting. By combining these two sensors and through using
a multi-view approach for fruit tracking and counting, they
achieved counting accuracies of ∼98%. It is important
to note, that mangoes do not grow in clusters like apples,
which makes counting by detection a feasible approach for
mangoes.
More recently, Faster R-CNN [13] integrated region pro-
posal and classiﬁcation step into a single network. This
approach has already been adapted to fruit and vegetable
detection. Bargoti et al. [4] used such a network to detect
and count almonds, mangoes and apples, achieving F1-scores
of > 0.9. Sa et al. [14] used a similar approach to detect
green peppers. They merged RGB and Near Infrared (NIR)
data and achieved F1-scores of 0.84. In this paper, we use
image data from a single RGB camera in cases where modern
detection networks fail to count fruits accurately. Speciﬁcally,
we want to accurately count clustered apples.
B. Counting of Clustered Fruit
While the detection part of the processing pipeline has
seen rapid advances that culminated in the adoption of
Faster R-CNN in orchards, the counting part has largely
been neglected. Current methods to receive counts from
segmented images are dominated by either Circular Hough
Transform (CHT) [1], [10], [15] or Non-Maximum Suppres-
sion(NMS) [4], [14]. The main drawbacks of CHT are its
reliance on accurate segmentation of the image and the need
to ﬁne tune parameters across datasets. NMS relies on a
static threshold to reject overlapping instances and counts
are generated by summing up the ﬁltered bounding boxes.
Chen et al. [2] used a combination of two networks
for counting. The ﬁrst, fully convolutional network cre-
ates activations of possible targets in the image, while the
second network counts these targets. Rahnemoonfar and
Sheppard [16] use a CNN for direct counting of red fruits
from simulated data. They used synthetic data to train a
network on 728 classes to count red tomatoes. In previous
work, Roy and Isler [3] used Gaussian Mixture Models
(GMMs) and Expectation Maximization (EM) to accurately
count apples from clusters. This method achieves state-of-
the-art counting performance of up to 91%, but it relies
on accurate image segmentation and is prone to errors due
to wrongly segmented pixels. In this paper, we show that
modern deep learning based techniques can achieve accurate
cluster counts without the need of prior segmentation or
additional post-processing.

III. METHOD
A. Motivation
A fully autonomous system for yield estimation in or-
chards usually follows the illustration in Fig. 2. The system
receives images as inputs. Apple clusters are detected in the
image and a counting algorithm computes per image counts.
In general, apple clusters will be visible in more than just
a single image. To avoid double counting, the individual
clusters have to be tracked and counts have to be monitored.
At the end of a sequence, we have one count per tree row.
For complete yield estimates the front and back side of
a corresponding tree row has to be merged. Again double
counting has to be avoided.
The detection part has received signiﬁcant attention re-
cently and with Faster R-CNN we can detect single fruits
accurately ( [4], [14]). However, these approaches fail when
fruits are growing in clusters, where one fruit is partially
occluded by others, as seen in Fig. 3. In this case, the
network generates 2000 region proposals for image patches
of 500 × 500 pixels, which are moved over the image
with stride 50 pixels 3a. All the proposals are then merged
together and ﬁltered using Non-maximum suppression with
an Intersection over Union (IoU) threshold of 0.7 3b. In
this case, the algorithm will miss one of the apples in the
cluster. Bargoti and Underwood [4] found that their approach
contains errors of ∼4% due to wrongly counting clusters.
Roy and Isler [3] used a GMM based approach to count
apples in clusters. Their semi-supervised detection method
was 96 −97% accurate. For computing the counts from
all detected clusters they achieved accuracies of 80 −91%.
Most of the discrepancy between detection and counting
accuracies were attributed to either over- or under-counting
due to wrong segmentations.
B. Proposed Approach
We approach the problem of accurately estimating apple
counts by making the following observations: (1) Apples
are sparsely distributed over the whole image; (2) they are
often clustered together; (3) and cluster sizes are unevenly
distributed. From these observations, we deﬁne the accurate
counting of clustered apples as a classiﬁcation problem with
a ﬁnite number of classes representing counts of apples per
(a) Output of Faster R-CNN
(b) Output after Thresholding and
Non-maximum suppression
Fig. 3: Case of under counting of Faster R-CNN
image patch. In our approach, we do not restrict the total
count per image, only the maximum cluster size. We also
do not restrict the model to only red fruits. Instead, we
demonstrate that our approach generalizes across varying
orchards and fruit colors.
C. Detection of Apple Clusters
Our method starts with the output of a region proposal
algorithm which can be any method that can generate can-
didate locations for apple clusters. We use a color-based
segmentation method reported in our previous work [3]. We
brieﬂy describe it here for completeness.
The detection algorithm takes a color image and generates
bounding boxes of probable apple clusters. In the ﬁrst step,
the image is over-segmented into superpixels in the LAB
colorspace. Each of these superpixels is then represented
by its mean color. These superpixels are clustered into 25
color classes. We use a user supervised training method to
collect relevant color clusters that represent apple clusters
over multiple data sets. Finally, we use Kullback-Leibler
(KL) divergence to classify each superpixel into apple or
background. We generate a binary mask from which we
get the bounding boxes of probable apple clusters. Since
this method uses color as the sole feature to classify pixels
into the corresponding clusters, it is prone to detect false
positives. Therefore, it is crucial that the counting algorithm
rejects false detections.
D. Counting with Deep Neural Networks
The input to the network is the original color image
and detected apple clusters. It predicts a count for each of
the probable apple cluster regions, detected by the region
proposal algorithm. The size of these apple clusters is not
arbitrarily large, usually between one to six apples. We,
therefore, deﬁne 7 classes, representing the apple counts per
image patch (including zero).
In this work, we used the older, shallower network ar-
chitecture of AlexNet for a proof of concept. Our proposed
network consists of the AlexNet convolutional layers ini-
tialized with the ImageNet weights. We removed all the
fully connected layers and add back three new ones with
the dimensions of our problem. We used dropout layers to
counter overﬁtting. We kept the original image input layer of
AlexNet which requires us to upsample images to 227×227
pixels. We used transfer learning followed by a ﬁne-tuning
step: First we only trained the newly added layers for 5
epochs. Then we trained all the convolutional layers as well,
but we adopted the per layer learning rate to 0.0001. We
trained the full network for up to 30 epochs.
E. Implementation Details
We trained our model on a desktop computer with a single
NVIDIA GTX 1080 GPU with 8GB of memory. The network
was implemented in Matlab. For the optimization of the
network, stochastic gradient descent was used. The initial
learning rate was set to 0.001, momentum to 0.9 and the
learning rate decay was 0.2 which we applied every 5 epochs

during the ﬁne tuning step. For image augmentations we
followed Taylor and Nitschke [17] and [4] who studied the
effects of a variety of image augmentation methods. They
found that the most effective ones are random cropping,
ﬂipping and color jittering. We did not use random cropping,
as these transformations change the true label associated with
the image.
IV. EXPERIMENTS
In this section, we present the experimental setup including
datasets, and report image patch counting results and share
some insights.
A. Datasets
We collected multiple datasets to validate our approach.
For this paper, the data was split into training-, validation-,
and yield estimation categories. For training, we used images
collected from multiple orchards in Minnesota and Washing-
ton. All of our evaluation data was collected at the University
of Minnesota Horticultural Research Center (HRC) in Eden
Prairie, Minnesota between the years 2015 and 2016. Since
this is a university orchard used for phenotyping research, it
is home to many different kinds of apple tree species. We
collected video footage from different sections of the orchard
using a standard Samsung Galaxy S4 cell phone. During
data collection, video footage was acquired from which the
images were extracted. The reason we use the HRC data is
that we were also able to collect ground truth information
post-harvest.
1) Training Datasets: For training, we used two datasets,
one containing green and one containing red apples. Both
datasets were obtained from the sunny side of the tree row.
From these two datasets, we extracted image patches using
the method described in Section III-C. In total, we got 13000
image patches which were annotated manually. Additionally,
we extracted 4500 patches at random that do not contain
apples. To balance our training set between classes we up-
sampled the training dataset, using small rotations of ±5 deg
and data augmentation, to a total of 64000 image patches.
2) Single Frame Validation Datasets: To validate our
image patch based counting approach we evaluated on four
different datasets. Similarly to the training dataset, we used
the method described in Section III-C to extract image
patches, that were then annotated manually. Fig. 4 shows
example patches of the four datasets. The details of these
four datasets are as follows:
Test Set (a) This dataset contains 5054 patches of red
apples. The data set is a collection of red patches from both
sides (sunny/shady) of multiple rows. The sunny side of the
row shows false positive detections since the dataset was
acquired in September and the leaves started to turn yellow.
Test Set (b) This dataset contains 599 patches of mainly
yellow and orange apples in the early growth phase. It was
acquired on a sunny day and most of the images show apples
in bright sunlight.
Test Set (c) This dataset contains 574 images of a green
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
Fig. 4: Sample images from datasets 1-4.
apple variety. The dataset contains apples in the shadow as
well as in bright illumination.
Test Set (d) This dataset contains 704 patches showing red
apples again, but this time the data was acquired from a
larger distance. The apples appear smaller and at a lower
resolution. Apples appear both in bright sunlight and in the
shadow.
3) Yield Estimation Datasets: We use two datasets to
show how our approach performs on estimating yield.
Yield validation set 1: This dataset contains six trees in a
row with a total of 270 apples. Fig. 5a shows an example
image.
Yield validation set 2: This data set contains eight trees in
a row with a total of 274 apples. Fig. 5b shows an example
image.
We obtained two videos for each of these datasets, one
from the front and one from the backside of the tree row.
Ground truth counts were obtained from the harvest.
B. Image Patch Counting Results
Table I shows the results of the cluster counting per-
formance. We present counting results in comparison with
the GMM approach presented in [3] since we have this
(a) Yield validation set 1 example
image
(b) Yield validation set 2 example
image
Fig. 5: Used yield estimation datasets

TABLE I: Image Patch Counting Results
Approach
Test Set 1
Test Set 2
Test Set 3
Test Set 4
GMM
89.8 %
81.8 %
79.9 %
76.7 %
CNN
80.21 %
93.32 %
94.3 %
86.1 %
method available and it achieves state-of-the-art detection
and counting performances.
The neural network outperforms the GMM model on
all but one of the test sets. On test set 3 we outperform
the GMM by almost 15%. The CNN is able to generalize
between datasets even under varying illumination conditions.
On the test sets 2 and 4 we outperform the GMM by 12%
and 10% respectively. However, for test set 1, the GMM
performs better by 9.6%. In retrospect, we realized that this
dataset contains many apples on the ground which appear
in conﬁgurations very different from what’s available in the
training dataset. We attribute the low performance of the
proposed approach to this discrepancy.
Fig. 6 shows the performance of our network over different
cluster sizes. We realize that for false positive detections
(zero counts) our method overcounts compared to ground
truth in 36% of the instances. With increasing cluster size we
start to undercount the actual number of fruits more heavily
(up to 34% for clusters of six apples). However, the network
does rarely over-/ or undercount by a single apple.
C. Yield Estimation Results
The neural network gives us a count per image frame,
composed of the sum of all patch counts. However, this
in itself does not directly correspond to yield. To provide
yield data we need to integrate counts over multiple views
throughout the dataset. To avoid double counting of fruits
we need to track the individual regions across the entire
sequence. In this section, we provide a validation method
for our approach to the application of yield estimation. We
note that we only use this method for empirical validation
Fig. 6: Counting performance across different cluster sizes
(a) Shady side of tree row
(b) Sunny side of tree row
Fig. 7: Merged 3D reconstruction of yield validation set 2
of the counting approach, not as a comprehensive solution
to the yield mapping problem.
In cluttered environments, such as apple orchards, the
appearance of any given cluster will change drastically
between views. It is possible that in some frames, the apples
are partially occluded or not visible at all. For this reason,
we need to merge the counts across frames. In addition to
tracking fruits between images, we need to avoid double
counting when scanning a tree row from the front and from
the back. For our test setup, we ﬁrst reconstruct both, the
sunny and shady side of the tree row using the Agisoft
software package as seen in Fig. 7a 7b. We merge both
reconstructions as seen in Fig. 7, using the algorithm of Roy
et al. [18].
We use the method of [3] to detect all single instances
of fruits in both video sequences. The detections are back-
projected into the 3D reconstruction to obtain fruit locations
in 3D. A connected component analysis is performed in
3D to get individual clusters. Finally, image patches are
generated by projecting individual clusters into the frames
from which they are visible. The proposed counting network
and the GMM based method are used to generate per patch
counts on the projected regions. We take the three maximum
predictions of corresponding patches and report the mean
count. In a post-processing step, all apples lying on the
ground are removed using a height threshold. To merge
the counts from both sides, they were summed up over all
connected components. The intersection areas among the
components are computed and we add/subtract the weighted
parts accordingly. Fig 8 shows the results.
The accuracy of the proposed method is 96.97% in dataset
1 and 96.72% in dataset 2. The performance of the GMM
based approach is 94.81% and 91.97% respectively.
D. Qualitative Analysis of Failure Cases
In Fig. 9 we show some failure cases of our method. In
the original images, we noted the ground truth counts as GT
and the networks estimates as Est.

Fig. 8: Yield estimation results
The most common type of error is the one seen in Fig. 9a,
9c, 9e and 9g. Here the images clearly contain multiple
apples, but due to occlusions by other fruit or leaves, only
a small portion of the fruits is visible in the image. In all
of these cases, the second fruit is too small. This error
is mainly due to incorrect selection of the regions during
detection. The error shown in Figure 9b shows brown and
yellow ground apples in the shady part of the original image.
The network can only pick out the two most signiﬁcant
features, with the rest being treated as image noise. This
failure case is prevalent in test set 1 but does not occur in
the others. This type of error can be avoided by excluding
all apples on the ground during the detection phase, or by
adding examples of ground apples to the training dataset.
For the error case shown in Figure 9d even human labelers
cannot give an accurate count with 100% certainty. The fruits
form a dense cluster with little to distinguish between them.
Our method ﬁnds two of the three fruits. The error shown
in Figure 9f shows a ground truth label which has been
annotated incorrectly. Even when taking special care during
the labeling process these cases occurred often. However,
by using synthetically rendered data this error could be
eliminated. Lastly, we see an example of strong occlusion
effects in Figure 9h. The fruits are occluded by leaves which
cuts one of them in two halves.
GT 2
Est 1
(a)
GT 4
Est 2
(b)
GT 2
Est 1
(c)
GT 3
Est 2
(d)
GT 2
Est 1
(e)
GT 3
Est 2
(f)
GT 2
Est 1
(g)
GT 3
Est 4
(h)
Fig. 9: Some example failure cases of our method
V. CONCLUSION
In this paper, we addressed the problem of accurately
counting clustered apples directly from images. We presented
a method based on AlexNet, which we modiﬁed and ﬁne-
tuned on our own training data. We presented results which
show that the method is more accurate than the previous,
GMM based approach in three out of our four test data sets.
Our multi-class classiﬁcation approach achieves accuracies
between 80% and 94% without the need of any pre- or post-
processing steps. The deep learning network presented in this
paper generalizes across different fruit colors, occlusions,
and varying illumination conditions. The method was fur-
ther evaluated on two rows to test its suitability for yield
estimation. The fruits were counted from the front and back
side of the tree row individually before merging them. Our
approach achieved 96.7% and 96.9% accuracy with respect
to ground truth obtained by counting harvested apples.
The CNN outperformed the GMM based method in three
out of the four test sets. The network generalizes across
varying illumination conditions, partial occlusions of fruits
and fruit colors. The result on the test set 3, which contains
green apples compared to the red data sets is especially
impressive. One reason might be that the variance in color
among green apples in the training and test sets is much
smaller than for red apples. The network is able to distinguish
very clearly between leaves and apples, even if leaves turn
brown in September (as was the case in test set 1). After
visually inspecting test set 1 we note that it contains many
clusters of apples on the ground that are misclassiﬁed by
the network (See Figure 1). Since the yield dataset contains
similar colored apples as test set 1 we compared data and
results of the two. In test set 1 we achieved 80% accuracy,
while on the yield data we achieved 96.7% and 96.9%
accuracy with respect to the harvested apples. The main
difference is the exclusion of ground apples in the yield data
sets. To conﬁrm the hypothesis that the ground apple patches
are causing the drop in performance on test set 1, the yield
data set should be manually labeled and used for evaluation.
To further improve counting results, our approach would
beneﬁt from a generic method to generate more training data
synthetically. This would allow removing the up-sampled
training images, containing three or more apples, from the
training dataset. Another potential cause of errors are fruits
on the ground. Those are not relevant to the overall yield
estimate and should be discarded during the detection step.
Our method should be tested on other types of fruits that
grow in clusters, such as strawberries.
REFERENCES
[1] X. Changyi, Z. Lihua, L. Minzan, C. Yuan, and M. Chunyan, “Apple
detection from apple tree image based on BP neural network and
Hough transform,” International Journal of Agricultural and Biologi-
cal Engineering, vol. 8, no. 6, pp. 46–53, 2015.
[2] S. W. Chen, S. S. Shivakumar, S. Dcunha, J. Das, E. Okon, C. Qu,
C. J. Taylor, and V. Kumar, “Counting Apples and Oranges With Deep
Learning: A Data-Driven Approach,” IEEE Robotics and Automation
Letters, vol. 2, no. 2, pp. 781–788, Apr. 2017.

[3] P. Roy and V. Isler, “Vision-Based Apple Counting and Yield
Estimation,” in 2016 International Symposium on Experimental
Robotics, D. Kuli´c, Y. Nakamura, O. Khatib, and G. Venture,
Eds.
Cham:
Springer
International
Publishing,
2017,
vol.
1,
pp. 478–487. [Online]. Available: http://link.springer.com/10.1007/
978-3-319-50115-4 42
[4] S. Bargoti and J. Underwood, “Deep fruit detection in orchards,” in
Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2017 IEEE International Conference
on.
IEEE, 2017, pp. 3626–3633.
[5] J. P. Wachs, H. I. Stern, T. Burks, and V. Alchanatis, “Low and
high-level visual feature-based apple detection from multi-modal
images,” Precision Agriculture, vol. 11, no. 6, pp. 717–735, Dec.
2010. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1007/s11119-010-9198-x
[6] H.
Okamoto
and
W.
S.
Lee,
“Green
citrus
detection
using
hyperspectral imaging,” Computers and Electronics in Agriculture,
vol. 66, no. 2, pp. 201–208, May 2009. [Online]. Available:
http://linkinghub.elsevier.com/retrieve/pii/S0168169909000258
[7] M. Stein, S. Bargoti, and J. Underwood, “Image Based Mango Fruit
Detection, Localisation and Yield Estimation Using Multiple View
Geometry,” Sensors, vol. 16, no. 11, p. 1915, Nov. 2016.
[8] Q. Wang, S. Nuske, M. Bergerman, and S. Singh, “Automated
crop yield estimation for apple orchards,” in Experimental robotics.
Springer, 2013, pp. 745–758.
[9] R. Linker, “Machine learning based analysis of night-time images
for yield prediction in apple orchard,” Biosystems Engineering,
vol.
167,
pp.
114–125,
Mar.
2018.
[Online].
Available:
http:
//linkinghub.elsevier.com/retrieve/pii/S1537511017306785
[10] A. Gongal, A. Silwal, S. Amatya, M. Karkee, Q. Zhang, and
K. Lewis, “Apple crop-load estimation with over-the-row machine
vision system,” Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, vol. 120,
pp. 26–35, Jan. 2016. [Online]. Available: http://linkinghub.elsevier.
com/retrieve/pii/S016816991500335X
[11] W. Ji, D. Zhao, F. Cheng, B. Xu, Y. Zhang, and J. Wang, “Automatic
recognition vision system guided for apple harvesting robot,” Com-
puters & Electrical Engineering, vol. 38, no. 5, pp. 1186–1195, Sept.
2012.
[12] S. Bargoti and J. P. Underwood, “Image segmentation for fruit
detection and yield estimation in apple orchards,” Journal of Field
Robotics, 2017.
[13] S. Ren, K. He, R. Girshick, and J. Sun, “Faster R-CNN: towards real-
time object detection with region proposal networks,” IEEE Transac-
tions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, vol. 39, no. 6, pp.
1137–1149, 2017.
[14] I. Sa, Z. Ge, F. Dayoub, B. Upcroft, T. Perez, and C. McCool,
“DeepFruits: A Fruit Detection System Using Deep Neural Networks,”
Sensors, vol. 16, no. 8, p. 1222, Aug. 2016.
[15] A. Silwal, A. Gongal, and M. Karkee, “Apple identiﬁcation in ﬁeld
environment with over the row machine vision system,” Agricultural
Engineering International: CIGR Journal, vol. 16, no. 4, pp. 66–75,
2014.
[16] Maryam Rahnemoonfar and Clay Sheppard, “Deep Count: Fruit
Counting Based on Deep Simulated Learning,” Sensors, vol. 17,
no. 12, p. 905, Apr. 2017. [Online]. Available: http://www.mdpi.com/
1424-8220/17/4/905
[17] L. Taylor and G. Nitschke, “Improving Deep Learning using Generic
Data Augmentation,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1708.06020, 2017.
[18] P. Roy, W. Dong, and V. Isler, “Registering Reconstructions of the Two
Sides of Fruit Tree Rows,” in Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS),
2018 IEEE International Conference on.
IEEE, 2018.
