 
 
 
Orange yield estimation using object 
tracking and 3D reconstruction 
 
 
Hassan, A., Mumtaz, R., Palade, V., Amin, A., Mahmood, Z., 
Khan, N., Noman, M., Imran, M. & Wicha, S 
Published PDF deposited in Coventry University’s Repository  
 
Original citation:  
Hassan, A, Mumtaz, R, Palade, V, Amin, A, Mahmood, Z, Khan, N, Noman, M, Imran, 
M & Wicha, S 2025, 'Orange yield estimation using object tracking and 3D 
reconstruction', Smart Agricultural Technology, vol. 12, 
101088. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.atech.2025.101088 
 
DOI    10.1016/j.atech.2025.101088 
eISSN  2772-3755 
 
 
 
Publisher: Elsevier 
 
 
 
© 2025 TheAuthor(s). Published byElsevier B.V. This is an open access article under 
the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/bync-nd/4.0/).
 
 

Smart Agricultural Technology 12 (2025) 101088
Available online 11 June 2025
2772-3755/© 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-
nc-nd/4.0/).
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Smart Agricultural Technology
 
journal homepage: www.journals.elsevier.com/smart-agricultural-technology
Orange yield estimation using object tracking and 3D reconstruction
Amna Hassan a, Rafia Mumtaz a,
,∗, Vasile Palade b, Arslan Amin a,
, Zahid Mahmood c, 
Noorullah Khan d, Muhammad Noman d, Muhammad Imran d, Santichai Wicha e,
a National University of Sciences and Technology (NUST), School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (SEECS), H-12, Islamabad, 44000, Pakistan
b Center for Computational Science and Mathematical Modelling, Coventry University, Priory Street, Coventry, CV1 5FB, United Kingdom
c Crop Sciences Institute, National Agricultural Research Center, Islamabad, 45500, Pakistan
d Horticultural Research Institute, National Agricultural Research Center, Islamabad, 45500, Pakistan
e Digital Transformation Research Center for Agro-Industry and Business (DTRAB), School of Applied Digital Technology, Mae Fah Luang University, Chiang Rai, 
57100, Thailand
A R T I C L E 
I N F O 
A B S T R A C T 
Keywords:
Yield estimation
Fruit detection
Fruit tracking
3D reconstruction
K-means clustering
Ripeness stage classification
The labor-intensive nature of agriculture, particularly in tasks such as yield estimation of fruits, is a signiﬁcant 
challenge. Yield estimation is crucial for the better management of the resources and for taking adequate measures 
for the transportation, storage, and export of the fruits. It also helps the farmers to estimate the total pricing of the 
yield. However, counting fruits directly on trees for yield estimation presents an obstacle due to their dispersed 
nature and often dense foliage. Therefore, we propose that reasonably accurate fruit yield estimation can be 
automated with a handheld camera. The dataset is curated by capturing and annotating 1451 images of orange 
trees. The dataset is augmented and processed in diﬀerent ways to evaluate the performance of YOLOv8 for the 
detection of oranges. Then the Byte tracker is deployed to track oranges in consecutive video frames. Further, we 
have classified the fruits into two categories, ripe and unripe using MobileVit. The 2D fruits detected by YOLOv8 
are projected to a 3D space for a more detailed analysis of the scene. Subsequently, the clustering algorithm is 
applied to the 3D projections of the detected objects to estimate per tree yield. On images, YOLOv8 nano has 
achieved a precision of 78.2% and recall of 69.7% on the test set. Moreover, for ripeness stage classification, 
MobileVit has achieved an accuracy of 97.8% and 86.7% on a test set containing 2 classes and 3 classes, 
respectively. Testing our proposed solution on videos shows that the algorithm is achieving good results on 
trees with less leaf occlusion. This paper demonstrates that preprocessing techniques can aid the detection model 
to achieve high detection rates. Furthermore, per tree yield of an orange orchard can be estimated by using video 
input. This oﬀers an automated solution to the laborious task of fruit yield estimation in agricultural settings, 
that can help to optimize orange production.
1. Introduction
The global shift towards fresh and convenient food consumption has 
signiﬁcantly increased the demand for fresh fruits [23]. Citrus is one of 
the most widely grown fruit groups in the world. Oranges account for 
more than half of the world’s citrus production. It is also the most widely 
traded citrus [7]. In 2021, citrus fruit worth of USD 26.41 billion were 
imported all over the world [6].
Top orange-producing countries are Brazil, China, and European 
Union with orange production of 15.3 million tons, 7.63 million tons, 
and 5.48 million tons respectively [27]. Pakistan, ranked as one of the 
largest citrus-producing nations, secures the 13𝑡ℎposition in global cit­
* Corresponding author.
E-mail address: rafia.mumtaz@seecs.edu.pk (R. Mumtaz).
rus fruit production [2]. In Pakistan, most farmers oversee small hold­
ings, typically under 2 hectares. Punjab stands out with an average citrus 
farm size of 12.3 hectares, substantial compared to other crops. Citrus 
orchard sizes vary widely, ranging from under 1 hectare to 65 hectares 
in diﬀerent regions. While a few large citrus growers exist, the landscape 
is mostly shaped by small and medium-sized growers [26].
In the fiscal year 2014--2015, total citrus fruit exports reached 393 
thousand tonnes, valued at $204 million, comprising around 16.4% of 
Pakistan’s total citrus production. This marked a noteworthy threefold 
increase from 2000--2001, with 2009--2010 contributing $99.4 million 
in foreign revenue.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.atech.2025.101088
Received 23 March 2025; Received in revised form 19 April 2025; Accepted 6 June 2025 

Smart Agricultural Technology 12 (2025) 101088
2
A. Hassan, R. Mumtaz, V. Palade et al. 
Despite being one of the largest citrus fruit producers, Pakistan’s 
share of the global market remained less than 1% in 2008 [21]. A rela­
tively modest proportion of citrus fruit (8--12%) is only directed towards 
international markets [26]. Not only Pakistan, but the citrus export of 
other countries also suﬀers due to poor economic strategies. For in­
stance, in Nepal citrus is grown as the most important fruit crop, but 
due to the absence of proper cultivation and negligence has severely de­
clined its production in recent years [9]. According to Bakari [4], new 
reforms are needed to refine trade and investment strategies in citrus 
trade of Tunisia.
This trend prompts an investigation into the dynamics of the cit­
rus supply chain problems which entail a critical need for technological 
advancements to enhance the eﬃciency of the supply chain process. 
A pivotal stage in the journey from farm to market involves the manual 
counting and growth stage monitoring of citrus fruits, a process noto­
rious for causing signiﬁcant delays, fostering issues, and illicit methods 
for inaccurate estimates. This not only hampers the supply chain but 
also introduces opacity in citrus fruit transactions. To address these 
challenges, the implementation of an AI-based system for citrus fruit 
counting, growth grading, and shelf time estimation emerges as a strate­
gic solution. Such technology not only replaces cumbersome manual 
methods but also mitigates associated problems, fostering transparency 
and eﬃciency throughout the citrus supply chain.
Previous research shows that fruit detection models are prone to en­
vironmental factors such as lightning, which changes throughout the 
day due to the positioning of sun in the sky. The performance of ob­
ject detection models is also aﬀected by the ripening stage of the fruits. 
Moreover, small-scaled objects are ignored by the detection models 
while downscaling the size of the input image. Some fruits in their ini­
tial stages have color similar to the leaves which can also aﬀect the 
performance of the object detection models. What techniques for aug­
mentation and preprocessing of the dataset can help object detection 
model to give good results in dealing with multi-scaled objects in vary­
ing lightning conditions. For video input, each frame is independently 
injected into the detection model. This leads to the recounting of the 
single object in multiple frames. Therefore, there is need for the imple­
mentation of the object tracking model to keep track of the objects to 
avoid recounting.
Detection model can also be used for the ripeness classification of the 
oranges. Using a single model for both the tasks can reduce the inference 
time which will be taken by a using a separate classifier. However, can 
a detection model give as good results as a sophisticated classification 
model. Calculating the overall yield doesn’t give the in depth detail of 
the orchard. Therefore there should be an algorithm that can give per 
tree yield of the orchard which can further be used for eﬃcient use of 
resources such as water and fertilizers.
The main contributions of this research are as follows:
• Dataset Collection and Annotation: Around 1400 images of or­
ange trees are taken from the orchards of National Agriculture 
Research Center (NARC) and Guangxi Normal university. These im­
ages are annotated in detail where each orange is annotated as a 
separate instance. Dataset is also annotated for fruit ripeness stage 
classification into 3 labels.
• Evaluating the performance of object detection model using 
eﬃcient preprocessing: Images are augmented by varying the 
brightness and saturation to mimic lighting changes occurring due 
to the sun. The images are tiled in a 2x2 grid and resized to 640x640 
to preserve the features. Variants of YOLOv8 are trained and eval­
uated on the dataset that is processed in 4 diﬀerent ways.
• Implementing a dictionary tracking algorithm: Using Byte 
tracker and dictionary management to track each fruit through each 
tile of the image and through consecutive frames of the video
• Evaluating the performance of vision transformer classifier: 
YOLOv8 and MobileVit is trained and evaluated to classify fruits 
into diﬀerent ripeness categories.
• Proposing 3D clustering for per-tree yield of oranges: Detected 
fruits are projected to a 3D plane for the estimation of the placement 
of the oranges in real world. Then by using K-means clustering on 
the 3D point cloud, oranges are assigned to a tree to estimate per­
tree yield.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows: The related work is dis­
cussed in Section 2, a description of the dataset is given in Section 3, 
the methodology is presented in Section 4, Section 5 contains the results 
and discussion, and Section 6 presents the limitation and future work.
2. Related work
Computer vision has provided eﬃcient solutions to revolutionize 
these agricultural practices. In past years, research has been done to au­
tomate the task for yield estimation. For instance, Asakereh et al. [3] has 
compared the performance of YOLOv2, YOLOv3, and YOLOv4 for detec­
tion of oranges. YOLOv4 has outperformed YOLOv2 and YOLOv3 with 
an F1 score of 92%. A segmentation technique has also been proposed 
by Liu et al. [15]. They have used the DLNet double-layer occlusion seg­
mentation model to segment green fruits in an obscured environment.
In Liu et al. [18], enhanced object detection in citrus orchards with 
a model combining coordinated attention and cross-scale connection 
with weighted feature fusion. Achieving 98.4% precision, the model 
surpasses YOLOv5 in accuracy, making it a signiﬁcant advancement in 
precision agriculture for real-time, multiple fruit target detection. Lyu 
et al. [19], introduced YOLOv5-CS, a lightweight model, for green citrus 
detection and counting in orchards. Utilizing image rotation and convo­
lutional block attention, the model achieves 98.23% detection accuracy 
and 28 FPS frame rate on an AI edge system, marking a step forward in 
eﬃcient green citrus counting.
In Lin et al. [14], an improved YOLOv5s algorithm combined with 
DeepSort for citrus counting, tackling shading, and lighting challenges 
in orchard videos is proposed. This enhancement increases recognition 
accuracy by 3.51% and tracking accuracy to 90.83%, demonstrating sig­
niﬁcant improvements in real-time citrus detection and tracking. Gao 
et al. [8] developed a multi-class fruit detection method using Faster 
RCNN for apples in dense-foliage orchards. This method, distinguish­
ing apples in various conditions, indicates a mean average precision of 
0.879, aiding in eﬀective robotic picking strategies and damage preven­
tion.
Chakraborty et al., in 2023, developed an automatic machine for 
postharvest citrus operations, leveraging a custom lightweight CNN 
model, SortNet. This machine performs tasks like washing, sorting, 
and grading with high accuracy, showcasing a sustainable solution for 
postharvest automation in citrus fruits. Lastly, Gao et al., in 2022, de­
veloped a novel method for apple detection and counting in orchards, 
using the YOLOv4-tiny network and CSR-DCF algorithm. Achieving a 
mean average precision of 99.35% for fruit and trunk detection, this 
method provides reliable yield data for apples, representing a signiﬁ­
cant advancement in orchard environment monitoring.
The depth camera (Intel REalSense d435) is mounted on a remote­
controlled vehicle for data acquisition [28]. YOLO v4 and trunk tracker 
are utilized for fruit detection and fruit tracking. For the elimination of 
the counted fruits for the previous row, the depth frame of the camera 
is used. If the distance between the detected object and the camera is 
more than 3 m, then the fruit belongs to the previous row. Moreover, 
for the removal of the fallen fruits, confidence scores are observed to be 
low. An average accuracy of 95% is achieved in the original video.
Abeyrathna et al. [1] has targeted apple orchards for object detection 
and tracking. Data is collected using a 3D camera mounted on a forward­
moving vehicle. YOLOv4, YOLOv5, YOLOv7, and EﬃcinetDet are used 
to perform the task of fruit detection. Then RGB coordinates are aligned 
with the depth channel obtained by the 3D camera. For tracking of fruits 
across frames of videos DeepSort is implemented. The highest detection 
accuracy is obtained by YOLOv5 and YOLOv7.

Smart Agricultural Technology 12 (2025) 101088
3
A. Hassan, R. Mumtaz, V. Palade et al. 
YOLOv7 with a channel-based attention module and convolutional 
block attention module is proposed in Hu et al. [11] for apple detection, 
and cascaded sort with SURF detectors is used for more accurate and 
real-time apple tracking. Flying robotic system (FRS) captured 100 apple 
images for apple counting in Yıldırım and Ulu [29]. MobileNet SSD and 
Faster RCNN are used for object detection. Faster RCNN has obtained 
an accuracy of 93%.
Two infrared cameras along with lidar sensors are developed on 
a moving vehicle for the collection of data [16]. lidar gives a more 
accurate depth channel. Multiple lidar scans have done point cloud reg­
istration. The scene is reconstructed in a 3-dimensional space and the 
camera pose is estimated by ORB-SlAM3 algorithm. For object detection 
in RGB, YOLOv5 is utilized. Further Information obtained from lidar and 
RGB is combined using fruit depth association and cluster filtering. The 
average localization error is 21.1 mm with 90% of the errors being less 
than 30 mm.
Qi et al. [22] shows that YOLOx tiny gave a detection accuracy of 
92.71% with minimum inference time. A new architecture nanoFet-m­
plus is proposed to classify the ripeness stage into 5 levels and deepsort 
is used for object tracking. YOLOv5 along with the contextual trans­
former self-attention module with SIOU loss is used by Lin et al. [14]. 
The introduction of the attention module has increased the performance 
by 3.51%.
Berry-shaped fruits have two types of annotation, i.e. MOTS style 
annotation (complete cluster is labeled as one unit) and COCO style 
annotation (each berry unit is labeled independently). Liu et al. [16]
has used both annotations for the early extraction of grape phenotypic 
traits. PointTracks detects the grape clusters and YOLACT along with 
the spatial embeddings detects each berry unit. It has given a detection 
result of 93.85%.
In Riccardi et al. [24] high-precision point cloud data from the straw­
berry greenhouse is collected by a terrestrial laser scanner. It has used a 
novel 3D fruit descriptor that captures the topology of the fruit surround­
ings and a cost function that combines positional distance, descriptor 
distance, and radius variation. Further, Hungarian method is applied to 
ﬁnd the optimal fruit associations. Zhang et al. [30] has used Siamese 
convolution autoencoder combined with DeepSort for object tracking.
3. Dataset
3.1. Collection and annotation
Orange trees flower from late February to early April in most areas 
of Pakistan. The fruit set period starts during April and May. The har­
vest period for oranges occurs from December to March [13]. Therefore 
the duration of data collection was for a few months from August to 
December. In this way, we were able to collect images of oranges over 
their diﬀerent ripeness stages.
The dataset is obtained from two diﬀerent sources. The first source, 
comprises images captured with a Kinect V2 depth camera, providing 
enhanced RGB data. This dataset includes a variety of conditions, such 
as diﬀering lighting and angles, to simulate real-world scenarios, and 
the images are captured from the orchards of NARC [5]. 694 images are 
taken from a far view, which can be seen in Fig. 1a.
We also requested Guangxi Normal University, a Chinese university, 
to share their dataset for object detection of oranges. The dataset that 
they shared had diﬀerent annotations than ours so we re-annotated the 
images in their dataset so that we can use it for our research. The dataset 
comprises images taken from a closer view, which can be seen in Fig. 1b. 
The dataset consists of a total of 1451 images taken in diﬀerent light­
ing and weather conditions. Further, from this dataset 80% images are 
used for training and 10% is used for testing and 10% is for validation 
purposes. These 1451 images are manually annotated in detail using 
Roboflow for bounding boxes and for ripeness stage classification. Or­
anges throughout their life cycle go through diﬀerent stages of Ripeness. 
The color of the oranges changes throughout their life which helps to 
Fig. 1. Image samples from the dataset. 
identify the stage of ripeness. Initially, the dataset was annotated in two 
stages ripe and unripe. But during the testing phase, we felt the need 
to introduce a new class, partially-ripe, as there is a stage in its life cy­
cle when it is not fully ripped and can not also be classified as unripe. 
Therefore the classification dataset is annotated twice, one dataset con­
sists of two classes, i.e. ripe and unripe and the other one consists of 
unripe, partially-ripe, and ripe.
For testing the algorithm on videos, 2 videos of the orange trees are 
taken in orchards in a linear motion. One video only consists of one 
tree and the other video consists of 3 trees in a row. These trees are 
highly loaded with oranges and branches are also densely covered with 
leaves. These two videos are taken from an orchard in Sargodha. How­
ever, a diﬀerent video is shot at diﬀerent angles and in nonlinear motion 
to evaluate the performance of the detection, tracking, and classification 
model.
3.2. Augmentation and preprocessing
Deep learning models require a large dataset to produce good results. 
The dataset consists of 1451 images, and each image consists of multiple 
orange instances. Before the augmentation of the dataset, each image is 
tiled in a 2x2 grid creating 4 images from a single image. After tiling, 
some images will not contain oranges in it. These images will also act 
like the negative samples.
To increase the dataset, several images are flipped and rotated at 
diﬀerent angles, and parameters like sheerness, hue, saturation, bright­
ness, and exposure are altered. Furthermore, the images were blurred 
and noise was introduced to make the model more robust. The images 
are tiled in a 2x2 grid to create 4 tiles of images. After augmentation, 
each image tile is resized to 640x640 pixels. By tiling and augmentation, 
the total number of 640x640 images reached 17,412 total images.
For the classification of oranges, a separate dataset is created by crop­
ping oranges from 17,412 augmented images. Each image in this dataset 

Smart Agricultural Technology 12 (2025) 101088
4
A. Hassan, R. Mumtaz, V. Palade et al. 
consists of only one orange. Oranges in the dataset are of diﬀerent sizes, 
the ones in the background appear smaller in size whereas the ones close 
to the camera appear to be bigger. So cropping of these oranges will re­
sult in images of varying sizes. Therefore all the images are resized into 
50x50 pixels to have a constant image size throughout the dataset. The 
dataset consists of a total of 143988 oranges consisting of 91277 unripe 
oranges and 52711 ripe oranges.
4. Methodology
The first step is to collect and annotate the data to detect the max­
imum number of fruits in each frame of the video. Each detected fruit 
is assigned a unique ID. Then, this ID will be maintained across con­
secutive frames of the video through an object tracking algorithm. Each 
object will be classified in its ripeness stage using a lightweight classifi­
cation model. To further refine the object count by removing recounted 
objects and to estimate per tree yield, 3D coordinates of the fruits are 
calculated. Lastly, these 3D points are clustered to obtain tree counts 
and objects that belong to individual trees.
4.1. Object detection
The main aim of the object detection stage is to detect the maximum 
number of fruits in each video frame. For the detection of oranges in 
orchard we have used YOLOv8 [12]. Ultralytics introduced YOLOv8 in 
January 2023, enhancing the YOLO architecture with several key im­
provements. YOLOv8 features a C2f module that combines high-level 
features with contextual information, improving detection accuracy. It 
employs an anchor-free model with a decoupled head, allowing inde­
pendent processing of objectness, classification, and regression tasks, 
thereby refining overall accuracy. The output layer uses a sigmoid func­
tion for objectness scores and a softmax function for class probabilities. 
YOLOv8 also introduces a semantic segmentation model, YOLOv8-Seg, 
which delivers state-of-the-art performance while maintaining speed 
and eﬃciency. The model utilizes advanced loss functions like DFL and 
CIoU for bounding-box loss and binary cross-entropy for classification, 
which boosts performance, especially for smaller objects.
Ultralytics oﬀers five versions of YOLOv8-nano, small, medium, 
large, and extra-large—each optimized for diﬀerent use cases and hard­
ware requirements. As we aim to detect oranges in real time, medium, 
small, and nano versions of YOLOv8 are trained. As the objects that we 
aim to detect are very small, so tiling is performed on each image for 
better detection results. Original images in the dataset have a resolution 
of 5760x3840 or 6000x4000. For tiling, the image is split in a 2x2 grid 
resulting in 4 sub-images. These object detection models are trained in 
four diﬀerent ways.
1. Tiling is not performed for both training and testing: All images are 
downscaled to 640x640 resolution for both training and testing.
2. Tiling is performed only during inference: For training, the com­
plete image is downscaled to 640x640. Whereas while testing the 
image is tiled into 4 sub-images. Each sub-image is then resized to 
640x640 pixels. The hypothesis behind this method is that if the 
model learns to perform well on low-resolution images it can give 
even better results on high-quality inputs
3. Tiling is performed only during training: Splitting the image into 4 
images and running an object detection model on each sub-image 
will increase the computation cost 4 times. So tiling is only per­
formed on the training set as a method of augmentation. For testing, 
the whole image is downscaled to 640x640.
4. Tiling is performed for both testing and training: For both training 
and testing, images are split into 4 sub-images, then each sub-image 
is further resized to 640x640.
The object detection model runs on each tile independently. Predic­
tions from each sub-image can be mapped to the original image using 
Fig. 2. Red zone is used to represent the area that is used to identify the lost 
objects.
the equations (1) and (2), where 𝑥𝑜𝑟𝑔, 𝑦𝑜𝑟𝑔are the coordinates of the 
bounding box in the original image, 𝑖be the split number of the im­
age. The split number is assigned incrementally from top-left with 𝑖= 0
to bottom-right 𝑖= 𝑔𝑟𝑖𝑑𝑠𝑖𝑧𝑒2. As we are splitting our image into 4 sub­
images, so the grid size is 2, and W and H are the height and width of 
the image before slicing.
𝑥org = 𝑥𝑖+
[
(𝑖%𝑔𝑟𝑖𝑑𝑠𝑖𝑧𝑒) ∗
( W
2 
)]
(1)
𝑦org = 𝑦𝑖+
[
(𝑖∕𝑔𝑟𝑖𝑑𝑠𝑖𝑧𝑒) ∗
( H
2 
)]
(2)
The object detection models are trained on an Intel i7-12700k CPU 
(3.61 GHz), 64 GB RAM, Nvidia 3090 GPU (24 GB), CUDA 12.0 for GPU 
acceleration. Models are trained with a learning rate of 0.01, batch size 
of 16, Adam optimizer, 0.937 momentum, and weight decay of 0.005 
for 50 epochs.
4.2. Object tracking
The Byte tracker of YOLOv8 runs independently on each tile of the 
image, tracking only the objects in individual tiles. It eﬀectively tracks 
the object as long as it’s in the same tile. However when an object jumps 
from one tile to another a new ID is assigned to the newly detected 
object. This problem has been tackled by keeping track of lost and newly 
detected objects. The region around the area from where the image splits 
is considered a danger zone as highlighted in Fig. 2. This region lies at 50 
pixels to the splitting lines in each tile. Tracking of the objects that are 
lost or are first detected around this region is maintained to avoid the 
assignment of new IDs to these objects (Figs. 3, 4). Euclidean distance is 
calculated between these lost and newly detected objects to re-identify 
the lost objects as given in equation (3), where 𝑑(𝐋,𝐍) represents the 
distance between the lost orange and the new detected orange, 𝑥𝑙and 
𝑦𝑙be the x and y coordinates of the center of the lost orange, and 𝑥𝑛and 
𝑦𝑛be the x and y coordinates of the center of the new detected orange. 
If an object can not be identified within 10 frames after it is lost, the 
object is dropped from the tracking list.
𝑑(𝐋,𝐍) =
√
(𝑥𝑙−𝑥𝑛)2 + (𝑦𝑙−𝑦𝑛)2
(3)
4.3. Ripeness stage classification
For ripeness stage classification, the performance of the YOLOv8 
classifier and a lightweight vision transformer MobileVit XXS is com­
pared.
MobileVit [20] is a hybrid architecture that combines Convolutional 
Neural Networks (CNNs) and Vision Transformers (ViTs) to achieve ef­
ﬁcient and powerful performance on mobile and edge devices. It uses 
the locality and translation invariance of CNNs alongside the global re­
ceptive field of ViTs. MobileVIt consists of a series of MobileViT blocks 
that are strategically interleaved with convolutional layers. Each block 

Smart Agricultural Technology 12 (2025) 101088
5
A. Hassan, R. Mumtaz, V. Palade et al. 
Fig. 3. Results of tracking algorithms. 
Fig. 4. Qualitative results of Object detective model before and after tiling. 
starts with a local feature extractor using depth-wise separable convolu­
tions that signiﬁcantly reduce the parameter count and computational 
cost. This is followed by a transformer-based module that processes the 
features in a sequence-to-sequence manner, capturing long-range de­
pendencies. The output of this module is then integrated and processed 
through point-wise convolutions to combine the features eﬀectively. 
This design allows MobileVIt to maintain high accuracy while being 
compact and eﬃcient, making it particularly suitable for deployment 
on devices with limited computational capabilities.
Each detected object is resized to 50x50 pixels to be used as input for 
the classifier. MobileVit is trained using stochastic gradient descent as an 
optimizer, with a learning rate of 0.01 and categorical cross-entropy as 
a loss. For inference on video, it will become costly to run the classifier 
on each object of every frame of the video. To reduce the computational 
cost, MobileVit runs depending on the following condition:
1. The object is detected for the very first time.
2. If the model was not very confident in the previous classification of 
the detected object (confidence < 0.8).
4.4. 3D reconstruction
For estimating per tree yield, 2-dimensional coordinates of fruits are 
not enough. In video input, coordinates of each fruit will change with 
a change in the angle and motion of the camera. To get an estimation 
of the location of the fruits, they have to be projected on a 3D space. 
Therefore, detected fruits are projected to a 3D space by following the 
methodology in Liu et al. [17]. For this purpose, COLMAP, a structure 
from a motion algorithm, is used. As 3D reconstruction is a very com­
putationally costly process, COLMAP constructs a 3D scene from a set 
of 2D images.
COLMAP [25] is a widely-used photogrammetry and Structure-from­
Motion (SfM) software that excels in reconstructing 3D models from 
a series of images. It is an open-source tool that integrates both fea­
ture extraction and matching with camera pose estimation and dense 
3D reconstruction. The software is highly versatile, supporting vari­
ous camera models and formats, which makes it suitable for a wide 
range of applications, from academic research to commercial projects. 
By leveraging advanced algorithms like bundle adjustment and depth 
map fusion, COLMAP can produce highly accurate and detailed 3D mod­
els, even from datasets with challenging lighting and texture conditions. 
The software supports multi-GPU processing, which signiﬁcantly speeds 
up the reconstruction process, making it ideal for handling extensive col­
lections of images. Additionally, COLMAP provides options for sparse 
and dense reconstruction. Its robust feature matching and triangulation 
capabilities ensure that the resulting 3D models are both geometrically 
accurate and visually compelling.
SIFT (Scale-Invariant Feature Transform) is used to calculate and de­
scribe these detected features. These descriptors are crucial as they must 
be invariant to changes in scale, rotation, and lighting. After features 

Smart Agricultural Technology 12 (2025) 101088
6
A. Hassan, R. Mumtaz, V. Palade et al. 
Fig. 5. Different views of 3D project of oranges. 
have been extracted from each image, the next step is to find correspon­
dences between features in diﬀerent images. This is typically done using 
nearest neighbor search, where features from one image are matched 
with features from another based on their descriptors. With a set of 
matched features across multiple images, a sparse 3D point cloud is re­
constructed. Then the camera parameters (like position and orientation) 
are estimated using structure from motion (SFM) and the sparse struc­
ture of the scene simultaneously.
COLMAP provides both a command-line interface and a graphical 
user interface, making it accessible for automated scripting and interac­
tive modeling. Its flexibility and comprehensive toolset make it popular 
for projects reconstructing 3D models from photographs or video frames. 
The features are only calculated around the detected object by adding a 
margin of 5 pixels on each side of the object. By doing that, the computa­
tional cost has dropped drastically. To further reduce the computational 
expense only every third frame of the video is used for the stereo view 
3D reconstruction. COLMAP calculates feature descriptors of the objects 
using SIFT. Further, it uses a plane sweep algorithm for a stereo-view 
3D reconstruction (Fig. 5).
4.5. 3D points manipulation and object assignment
As 3D point annotations are not available, we can unsupervised al­
gorithms to estimate which fruit belong to which trees. Trees planted 
in orchards have an approximately fixed distance between rows of trees 
and a fixed distance between the trees. Moreover number of trees in 
each row is also known. This is exploited to obtain the per-tree yield of 
the fruits. From the assumption that the fruits that belong to the same 
Fig. 6. Clustering of oranges in 3D plane to estimate per tree yield. Each cluster 
represents fruits that are estimated to belong to the same tree.
tree are closer to each other than the fruits from the other trees, the 
fruits that are closer to each other are clustered together.
For that K-means clustering is implemented on all the 3D points ob­
tained by 3D reconstruction with k being the number of trees in a row. 
For instance, if a row consists of 10 trees then k=10.
K-means clustering is an algorithm that partitions data into 𝑘clusters 
by assigning each point to the nearest centroid and then recalculating 
centroids as the mean of the points in each cluster. This process repeats 
until the centroids stabilize. It is simple and fast, but requires specifying 
the number of clusters in advance and can be sensitive to initial centroid 
placement.
Each cluster represents a tree. We assume that the oranges belonging 
to a cluster also belong to a single tree. After clustering the oranges in a 
3-dimensional space, they have to be mapped to the 2D plane to identify 
the IDs of the fruit in the 2D video frames.
Mapping 3D points back to the 2D image can help us obtain the per­
tree yield and to remove the recounted fruits that are missed by the 
object tracker. Therefore the 3D points are mapped to the 2D images. 
Each object contains multiple feature points and each feature point be­
longs to a cluster. So the cluster that is assigned to the object is the most 
occurring cluster in its feature points. As clusters can be in a random 
order, we can not assign the tree ID based on the cluster number. There­
fore the mean of all the 3D points of the cluster is calculated to estimate 
the center of the tree. These centers are then sorted in ascending order 
based on their x values. Depending upon the x values of the center the 
tree ID is assigned. In this way, we can have an incremental ID for trees 
in a row (Fig. 6).
Some fruits do not have any feature points. Tree assignments of such 
fruits are done by K nearest neighbors [10]. Depending upon the tree ID 
of the five closest fruits, the unassigned fruit is assigned a tree ID.
If a feature point belongs to more than one fruit then it indicates that 
the fruit is recounted. If we use a single feature point for the detection of 
reappearing fruits, it can cause false removal of the object as the target 
fruits can have similar features. Therefore, those fruits that have the 
same feature points for more than half of the total feature points of the 
objects.
5. Results and discussions
Object detection models are evaluated on test and validation sets 
using precision, recall, mAP50, and mAP50-95. Similarly, the classifi­

Smart Agricultural Technology 12 (2025) 101088
7
A. Hassan, R. Mumtaz, V. Palade et al. 
Fig. 7. Training curves of YOLOv8(nano) for original dataset. 
Fig. 8. Training curves of YOLOv8(nano) for tiled dataset. 
cation models are evaluated on test and validation set using accuracy, 
precision, recall, and F1-score by using equations (4), (5), (6) and (7), 
respectively. In equations (5) and (6), 𝑇𝑃is the number of true positive 
instances, 𝐹𝑃is the number of false positive instances, and 𝐹𝑁is the 
number of false positive instances.
𝐴𝑐𝑐𝑢𝑟𝑎𝑐𝑦= 𝑁𝑜.𝑜𝑓𝐶𝑜𝑟𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑃𝑟𝑒𝑑𝑖𝑐𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑠
𝑇𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙𝑃𝑟𝑒𝑑𝑖𝑐𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑠 
(4)
𝑃𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛=
𝑇𝑃 
𝑇𝑃+ 𝐹𝑃
(5)
𝑅𝑒𝑐𝑎𝑙𝑙=
𝑇𝑃 
𝑇𝑃+ 𝐹𝑁
(6)
𝐹1 −𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑒= 2 ∗𝑃𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛∗𝑅𝑒𝑐𝑎𝑙𝑙
𝑃𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛+ 𝑅𝑒𝑐𝑎𝑙𝑙 
(7)
Images are tiled to preserve the features of small-scale objects. In­
stead of resizing the complete image to 640x640 resolution, each image 
is tiled in a grid of 2x2. Each tile is then scaled to 640x640 resolution, 
in this way the small-scaled objects will not be lost while downsampling 
the image, resulting in high detection results. Using high-resolution im­
ages instead of tiling can also give similar results but it requires very 
high computational power to run the model. Tiling can reduce the com­
putational cost at a given time but may increase the total time required 
to run the model on all tiles of the image. However, this problem can 
be solved by using running models on all tiles in parallel to minimize 
inference time.
YOLO variants are trained on the tiled and non-tiled datasets. They 
are evaluated on both the validation set and test set using multiple eval­
uation metrics. Medium, small, and nano variants of YOLOv8 that are 
trained and tested on non-tiled images show that YOLOv8 medium out­
performs small and nano with the highest precision, recall, and mAP on 
the test set among the variants. When these three variants were tested 
on the tiled dataset they produced lower precision and higher recall. The 
nano version of YOLOv8 is trained on tiled images and tested on both 
tiled and non-tiled test and validation sets. When this model is tested on 
tiled images it has outperformed all the models with the highest preci­
sion, recall, mAP50, and mAP50-95 of 82.2%, 74.6%,78.8%, and 46% 
respectively on the validation set. Similarly, it has also outperformed 
other models on the test set with a precision of 78.2%, recall of 69.7%, 
and mAP50 of 76%. However, when this model is tested on the non-tiled 
dataset, it has given the worst results among all the models.
It shows that the tiling at training helps in increasing the overall per­
formance of the models if the testing is performed on the tiled images. 
Whereas when the same model is tested on non-tiled data, a decrease in 
the number of detected oranges is reported. But when non-tiled trained 
models run on tiled images, it increases the number of detected oranges 
but also increases false positives. Training curves of trained on non-tiled 
and tiled datasets can be seen in Fig. 7 and Fig. 8, respectively.
These models are further tested on videos obtained from two dif­
ferent orchards in two diﬀerent cities of Pakistan, i.e. Islamabad and 
Sargodha. YOLOv8, trained on original data, is tested on video frames 
without tiling and it has given very poor detection results in terms of 

Smart Agricultural Technology 12 (2025) 101088
8
A. Hassan, R. Mumtaz, V. Palade et al. 
Table 1
Detection results on the validation set.
YOLOv8 Variants 
Training setting 
Testing setting 
Precision 
Recall 
mAP50 
mAP50-95 
(%)
(%)
(%)
(%)
Nano 
Non tiled 
Non tiled 
74.7 
56.6 
63.2 
31.3 
Small 
Non tiled 
Non tiled 
78.2 
61.2 
67.7 
34 
Medium 
Non tiled 
Non tiled 
76.8 
59.7 
65.2 
32.8 
Nano 
tiled 
tiled 
82.2 
74.6 
78.8 
46 
Nano 
Non tiled 
tiled 
3.8 
60.7 
65.7 
32.2 
Small 
Non tiled 
tiled 
72.1 
65.5 
68.2 
34 
Medium 
Non tiled 
tiled 
72.1 
65.5 
68.2 
34 
Nano 
tiled 
Non tiled 
71.4 
47.1 
53.8 
22.4 
Table 2
Detection results on the test set.
YOLOv8 Variants 
Training setting 
Testing setting 
Precision 
Recall 
mAP50 
mAP50-95 
(%)
(%)
(%)
(%)
Nano 
Non tiled 
Non tiled 
72.6 
56.8 
63.6 
30.3 
Small 
Non tiled 
Non tiled 
75.1 
61.1 
67.5 
33.4 
Medium 
Non tiled 
Non tiled 
76.9 
59.1 
66.3 
32 
Nano 
tiled 
tiled 
78.2 
69.7 
76 
38 
Nano 
Non tiled 
tiled 
68.8 
57.6 
61.7 
25.9 
Small 
Non tiled 
tiled 
67.9 
61.8 
63.6 
25.8 
Medium 
Non tiled 
tiled 
65.6 
60.6 
0.619 
24.7 
Nano 
tiled 
Non tiled 
69.1 
48.6 
56 
23.1 
Table 3
Evaluation Results of Classification Models.
Model 
Dataset 
Validation Accuracy 
Test Accuracy 
Test Precision 
Test Recall 
Test F1-score 
(%)
(%)
(%)
(%)
(%)
YOLO v8 (nano) 
2 classes 
68.3 
70.7 
70.9 
69.4 
70.1 
MobileVit XXS 
2 classes 
97.5 
97.8 
97.6 
97.5 
97.7 
MobileVit XXS 
3 classes 
85.2 
86.9 
86.9 
87.4 
86.6 
recall. It fails to detect oranges when the lightning conditions are diﬀer­
ent than those of the training set. Moreover, it also lacks the ability to 
detect small fruits (Tables 1, 2).
When this same model is tested on tiled frames, it has given high 
detection results as the model was trained to detect oranges from low­
quality images. So when such a model is tested on high-quality frames 
it also detects small objects from the image. However, it has also given 
false positives by detecting similar color leaves as oranges.
YOLOv8, trained on tiled images, failed to perform well on non-tiled 
video frames, as the model is trained on high-quality images. Hence it 
has poor performance on low-quality data. But this model is giving high 
detection results on tiled images with minimum false positives.
For ripeness classification, YOLOv8 was able to achieve an accuracy 
of 70.7% whereas the mobileVit achieved an accuracy of 97.8% on the 
dataset consisting of 2 classes whereas it achieved an accuracy of 86.9% 
on the dataset consisting of 3 classes. MobileVit is robust to lighting 
changes which is observed in orchards throughout the day. Results are 
given in Table 3.
Confusion Matrices of MobileVit are given in Fig. 9a and Fig. 9b on 
the dataset with 2 classes and 3 classes respectively. From the confu­
sion matrix, it can be seen that the precision and accuracy of MobileVit, 
trained on data with 3 labels, has signiﬁcantly dropped due to the label 
being partially-ripe. This class is aﬀecting the results of the model due to 
the issue of class imbalance. Whereas when we annotated the data with 
2 labels, there was a signiﬁcant increase in the accuracy and precision 
of the classification model.
For the testing on the video, the tracking algorithm has eﬀectively 
tracked the oranges in the frame tiles of the video. The dictionary 
management algorithm helped to keep track of the oranges across the 
diﬀerent tiles of the frames using Euclidean distance. This helped in 
remapping the objects across the tiles of the image. This algorithm per­
forms well when the object is moving at a small pace but tends to skip a 
Table 4
Results of Orange Counting.
Video 
Original Count 
Predicted Count 
Detection Rate 
(%)
Video 1 
358 
303 
84.6 
Video 2 
589 
441 
74.8 
Table 5
Results of per tree yield of Oranges.
Video 
Tree ID 
Original Count 
Predicted Count 
Detection Rate 
(%)
Video 1 
Tree 1 
358 
303 
84.6 
Video 2 
Tree 1 
196 
120 
61.2 
Video 2 
Tree 2 
286 
258 
90.2 
Video 2 
Tree 3 
107 
63 
58.8 
few objects in mapping the objects when the object is moving fast in the 
video. However, this parameter can be manually adjusted in the algo­
rithm by varying the value of maximum distance while calculating the 
distance between the objects.
Video 1 comprises of a single orange tree with sparse occlusion due to 
leaves and is under good lighting. Whereas the Video 2 consists of 3 trees 
in a row. The lighting conditions of this video are below satisfactory and 
trees have diﬀerent densities of leaves on them. The results of orange 
counting on complete row and per tree yield are given in Table 4 and 
Table 5. The proposed solution can detect 84.6% oranges in Video 1 
whereas the detection rate dropped to 74.8% in Video 2. Furthermore, 
for per-tree yield, the highest detection rate of 90.2% is obtained for 
tree 2 in video 2, and the lowest detection rate of 58.8% is recorded for 
tree 3 in video 2. Quantitative analysis of the algorithm shows a huge 
variance in the results. However, the manual inspection of these videos 

Smart Agricultural Technology 12 (2025) 101088
9
A. Hassan, R. Mumtaz, V. Palade et al. 
Fig. 9. Confusion matrices of MobileVit. 
for qualitative analysis shows that the algorithm performs best when 
there is low occlusion. Videos are shared here.
6. Limitation and future work
The proposed system demonstrates eﬀective performance when the 
camera moves in a linear direction. However, this approach limits vis­
ibility, particularly in capturing a comprehensive view of trees where 
some fruits remain hidden behind leaves. Consequently, the model fails 
to detect these occluded fruits due to their absence from the video feed, 
highlighting a signiﬁcant drawback of the current solution. To enhance 
detection rates, an improved system could be devised that employs a 
360-degree view to ensure all fruits are within the camera’s field of view.
Another critical issue is the lack of proper handling for camera 
movements that backtrack and may inadvertently record fruits already 
captured. This oversight increases the likelihood of recounting fruits, 
necessitating the development of a robust methodology to address this 
repetition problem eﬀectively. Such a methodology would ensure accu­
rate fruit yield estimation by preventing redundant data collection.
An alternative enhancement involves leveraging airborne technology 
for fruit yield estimation. By capturing more stable video streams from 
a consistent height and speed, airborne systems oﬀer greater eﬃciency 
and reliability compared to ground-based approaches. Integrating this 
technology not only simplifies deployment but also enhances the overall 
eﬀectiveness of fruit yield estimation processes.
Furthermore, expanding the application of this system to mobile 
platforms would democratize farmers’ access to fruit yield estimation. 
Deploying the solution via mobile applications makes it more accessible 
and cost-effective, empowering farmers to estimate yields conveniently 
using their smartphones. This accessibility not only enhances usability 
but also supports broader adoption and utilization in agricultural set­
tings.
CRediT authorship contribution statement
Amna Hassan: Writing -- original draft, Visualization, Validation, 
Software, Methodology, Investigation, Data curation, Conceptualiza­
tion. Rafia Mumtaz: Writing -- original draft, Visualization, Validation, 
Supervision, Methodology, Investigation, Conceptualization. Vasile 
Palade: Writing -- review & editing, Visualization, Validation, Method­
ology, Data curation, Conceptualization. Arslan Amin: Writing -- re­
view & editing, Visualization, Validation, Supervision, Methodology, 
Investigation, Data curation. Zahid Mahmood: Writing -- review & edit­
ing, Visualization, Validation, Resources, Investigation, Data curation. 
Noorullah Khan: Writing -- review & editing, Validation, Resources, 
Investigation, Data curation. Muhammad Noman: Writing -- review 
& editing, Visualization, Validation, Resources, Investigation, Data cu­
ration. Muhammad Imran: Writing -- review & editing, Visualization, 
Validation, Resources, Investigation, Data curation. Santichai Wicha: 
Writing -- review & editing, Visualization, Validation, Methodology, In­
vestigation, Conceptualization.
Ethical approval
The project does not involve any human or animal as a subject to be 
studied. Therefore, ethical approval is not applicable.
Consent to participate
The project does not require any involvement of living beings, there­
fore the consent to participate is not applicable.
Consent to publish
All authors of the paper have given the consent to publish this work.
Funding
There is no funding for this research work.
Declaration of competing interest
The authors declare that they have no conflict of interest.
Acknowledgement
This research was supported by the Digital Transformation Research 
Center for Agro-Industry and Business (DTRAB), School of Applied Dig­
ital Technology, Mae Fah Luang University, in collaboration with the 
PAK-Thai Research Group. The authors gratefully acknowledge the con­
tributions and institutional support from the School of Applied Digital 
Technology, Mae Fah Luang University, Chiang Rai, Thailand; the Col­
lege of Arts, Media, and Technology, Chiang Mai University, Thailand; 
and the National University of Sciences and Technology (NUST), Pak­
istan.

Smart Agricultural Technology 12 (2025) 101088
10
A. Hassan, R. Mumtaz, V. Palade et al. 
Availability of data and materials
The data can be made available by requesting the authors through 
email.
References
[1] R.R.D. Abeyrathna, V.M. Nakaguchi, A. Minn, T. Ahamed, Recognition and counting 
of apples in a dynamic state using a 3d camera and deep learning algorithms for 
robotic harvesting systems, Sensors 23 (2023) 3810.
[2] Aciar, Citrus | Aik Saath, https://research.aciar.gov.au/aik-saath/citrus, 2024.
[3] A. Asakereh, S.a. Mehdizadeh, H. Mirhaji, M. Soleymani, Fruit detection and load es­
timation of an orange orchard using the YOLO models through simple approaches in 
diﬀerent imaging and illumination conditions, Comput. Electron. Agric. 191 (2021), 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2021.106533.
[4] S. Bakari, The impact of citrus exports on economic growth: empirical analysis 
from Tunisia, https://mpra.ub.uni-muenchen.de/82414/1/MPRA_paper_82414.pdf, 
2019. (Accessed 20 September 2024), Online.
[5] P.A.R. Council, Pakistan Agriculture Research Council, 2024.
[6] M.Y. Dagha, M.N.S. Javaria Nasir, F.A. Usama Ehsan Khan, N. Saleem, Explor­
ing value-addition opportunities and export potential: a case of citrus industry, 
https://fpcci.org.pk/wp-content/uploads/2023/07/Exploring-Value-Addition-
Opportunities-and-Export-Potential-A-Case-of-Citrus-Industry.pdf, 
2023. 
(Ac­
cessed 20 September 2024), Online.
[7] FAO, Citrus | FAO | food and agriculture organization of the United Na­
tions, https://www.fao.org/markets-and-trade/commodities/citrus/en, 2023. (Ac­
cessed 20 September 2024), Online.
[8] F. Gao, L. Fu, X. Zhang, Y. Majeed, R. Li, M. Karkee, Q. Zhang, Multi-class fruit­
on-plant detection for apple in SNAP system using faster R-CNN, Comput. Electron. 
Agric. 176 (2020) 105634, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2020.105634.
[9] S.P. Ghosh, M.B.R.K. D.K. Ghosh, M.B.K. Dr.C. Regmi, D.P. G.S. Niroula, Training 
manual for combating citrus decline problem in Nepal, https://openknowledge.fao.
org/server/api/core/bitstreams/5f8a0e13-d0f6-445b-80f0-428cafbedce7/content, 
2023. (Accessed 20 September 2024), Online.
[10] G. Guo, H. Wang, D. Bell, Y. Bi, K. Greer, Knn model-based approach in classifi­
cation, in: On the Move to Meaningful Internet Systems 2003: CoopIS, DOA, and 
ODBASE: OTM Confederated International Conferences, CoopIS, DOA, and ODBASE 
2003, Catania, Sicily, Italy, November 3--7, 2003, Proceedings, Springer, 2003, 
pp. 986--996.
[11] J. Hu, C. Fan, Z. Wang, J. Ruan, S. Wu, Fruit detection and counting in apple orchards 
based on improved yolov7 and multi-object tracking methods, Sensors 23 (2023) 
5903.
[12] G. Jocher, A. Chaurasia, J. Qiu, Yolo by ultralytics, https://github.com/ultralytics/
ultralytics, 2023.
[13] A. Krajewski, Pakistan Citrus Growers Nutrition Handbook Version 2, 2020.
[14] Y. Lin, W. Hu, Z. Zheng, J. Xiong, Citrus identification and counting algorithm based 
on improved yolov5s and deepsort, Agronomy 13 (2023) 1674.
[15] J. Liu, Y. Zhao, W. Jia, Z. Ji, DLNet: accurate segmentation of green fruit in obscured 
environments, J. King Saud Univ, Comput. Inf. Sci. 34 (2022) 7259--7270, https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.jksuci.2021.09.023.
[16] T. Liu, H. Kang, C. Chen, Orb-livox: a real-time dynamic system for fruit detection 
and localization, Comput. Electron. Agric. 209 (2023) 107834.
[17] X. Liu, S.W. Chen, S. Aditya, N. Sivakumar, S. Dcunha, C. Qu, C.J. Taylor, J. Das, 
V. Kumar, Robust fruit counting: combining deep learning, tracking, and structure 
from motion, in: 2018 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and 
Systems, IROS, 2018, pp. 1045--1052.
[18] X. Liu, G. Li, W. Chen, B. Liu, M. Chen, S. Lu, Detection of dense citrus fruits by 
combining coordinated attention and cross-scale connection with weighted feature 
fusion, Appl. Sci. 12 (2022) 6600.
[19] S. Lyu, R. Li, Y. Zhao, Z. Li, R. Fan, S. Liu, Green citrus detection and counting in 
orchards based on yolov5-cs and ai edge system, Sensors 22 (2022) 576.
[20] S. Mehta, M. Rastegari, Mobilevit: light-weight, general-purpose, and mobile­
friendly vision transformer, arXiv preprint, arXiv:2110.02178, 2021.
[21] M. Naseer, Report on export of kinnow, 2022. (Accessed 29 April 2024), Online.
[22] Z. Qi, W. Zhang, T. Yuan, J. Rong, W. Hua, Z. Zhang, X. Deng, J. Zhang, W. Li, An 
improved framework based on tracking-by-detection for simultaneous estimation of 
yield and maturity level in cherry tomatoes, Measurement 226 (2024) 114117.
[23] B. Ramos, F.A. Miller, T.R.S. Brandão, P. Teixeira, C.L.M. Silva, Fresh fruits and 
vegetables—an overview on applied methodologies to improve its quality and safety, 
Innov. Food Sci. Emerg. Technol. 20 (2013) 1--15, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ifset.
2013.07.002.
[24] A. Riccardi, S. Kelly, E. Marks, F. Magistri, T. Guadagnino, J. Behley, M. Ben­
newitz, C. Stachniss, Fruit tracking over time using high-precision point clouds, in: 
2023 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, ICRA, IEEE, 2023, 
pp. 9630--9636.
[25] J.L. Schönberger, J.M. Frahm, Structure-from-motion revisited, in: Conference on 
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, CVPR, 2016.
[26] M.I. Siddique, E. Garnevska, M.I. Siddique, E. Garnevska, Citrus value chain(s): a 
survey of Pakistan citrus industry, in: Agricultural Value Chain, IntechOpen, 2017.
[27] USDA, Oranges | USDA foreign agricultural service, https://fas.usda.gov/data/
production/commodity/0571120, 2024. (Accessed 20 September 2024), Online.
[28] Z. Wu, X. Sun, H. Jiang, W. Mao, R. Li, N. Andriyanov, V. Soloviev, L. Fu, Ndmfcs: 
an automatic fruit counting system in modern apple orchard using abatement of 
abnormal fruit detection, Comput. Electron. Agric. 211 (2023) 108036.
[29] Ş. Yıldırım, B. Ulu, Deep learning based apples counting for yield forecast using 
proposed flying robotic system, Sensors 23 (2023) 6171.
[30] T. Zhang, D. Zhao, Y. Chen, H. Zhang, S. Liu, Deepsort with Siamese convolution au­
toencoder embedded for honey peach young fruit multiple object tracking, Comput. 
Electron. Agric. 217 (2024) 108583.
