Academic Editor: David Portugal
Received: 12 January 2026
Revised: 10 February 2026
Accepted: 17 February 2026
Published: 22 February 2026
Copyright: © 2026 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license.
Article
Dual-Detector Vision and Depth-Aware Back-Projection for
Accurate Apple Detection and 3D Localisation for
Robotic Harvesting
Tagor Hossain 1,*
, Peng Shi 1
and Levente Kovacs 2
1
School of Electrical and Mechanical Engineering, Adelaide University, North Terrace Campus,
Adelaide, SA 5005, Australia
2
Research and Innovation Center, Obuda University, 1034 Budapest, Hungary
*
Correspondence: mdtagor.hossain@adelaide.edu.au
Abstract
Accurate apple detection and precise three-dimensional (3D) localisation are essential for
autonomous robotic harvesting in orchard environments, where occlusion, illumination
variation, depth noise, and the similar colour appearance of fruits and surrounding leaves
present significant challenges. This paper proposes a dual-detector vision framework com-
bined with depth-aware back-projection to achieve robust apple detection and metric 3D
localisation in real time. The method integrates the complementary strengths of YOLOv8
and Mask R-CNN through confidence-weighted fusion of bounding boxes and pixel-wise
union of segmentation masks, producing stabilised two-dimensional (2D) apple representa-
tions under visually ambiguous conditions. The fusion results are converted into dense 3D
representations through depth-guided projection within the camera coordinate system rep-
resenting the visible fruit surface. A depth-consistency weighting strategy assigns higher
influence to depth-reliable pixels during centroid computation, thereby suppressing noisy
or occluded depth measurements and improving the stability of 3D fruit centre estimation,
while local intensity normalisation standardises neighbourhood-level pixel intensities to
reduce the impact of shadows, highlights, and uneven lighting, enabling more consistent
segmentation and detection across varying illumination conditions. Experimental results
demonstrate an accuracy of 98.9%, an mAP of 94.2%, an F1-score of 93.3%, and a recall of
92.8%, while achieving real-time performance at 86.42 FPS, confirming the suitability of the
proposed method for robotic harvesting in challenging orchard environments.
Keywords: RGB-D orchard sensing; dual-detector fruit perception; depth-aware apple
localisation; 3D fruit localisation in orchards; vision-based robotic harvesting
1. Introduction
Vision-based perception plays a critical role in the development of intelligent agricul-
tural robots, particularly for tasks such as fruit detection, localisation, and yield estima-
tion. Accurate perception in orchard environments remains challenging due to complex
backgrounds, heavy foliage occlusion, varying illumination conditions, and dense fruit
clustering [1]. Robust apple detection and three-dimensional (3D) localisation are therefore
essential prerequisites for reliable robotic harvesting and autonomous orchard monitoring
systems. Recent advances in deep learning have significantly improved two-dimensional
(2D) fruit detection performance using convolutional neural networks (CNNs) [2]. Deep
learning-based detectors such as YOLO [3], Faster R-CNN [4], and Mask R-CNN [5] have
Robotics 2026, 15, 47
https://doi.org/10.3390/robotics15020047

Robotics 2026, 15, 47
2 of 21
demonstrated strong capability in recognising apples under orchard conditions. However,
purely RGB-based methods are inherently limited in complex orchard scenes, where visual
ambiguity caused by occlusion, overlapping fruits, and illumination variation leads to
unstable detection and inaccurate localisation [6]. Incorporating depth information through
RGB-D sensing has therefore attracted increasing attention, as it provides complementary
geometric cues that are less sensitive to colour similarity and lighting changes [7]. Several
studies have explored RGB-D perception for fruit detection and localisation by combining
depth maps with RGB imagery [8,9]. These approaches demonstrate that depth filtering
and geometric constraints can effectively suppress background clutter and improve local-
isation accuracy. Nevertheless, many existing methods rely on a single detector, which
makes them vulnerable to false positives, missed detections, and poor instance separation
in densely clustered or occluded scenes [10]. Moreover, errors in 2D detection directly
propagate to the subsequent 3D localisation stage, limiting the robustness of downstream
perception for robotic harvesting tasks. To address occlusion and incomplete depth ob-
servations, point-cloud-based reasoning and frustum-constrained processing have been
investigated for apple localisation under severe leaf and fruit occlusion [11]. These methods
improve localisation accuracy for partially visible fruits; however, they depend heavily on
the quality of initial 2D detections and segmentation masks. As a result, tightly integrated
frameworks that combine robust multi-model 2D perception with depth-consistent 3D
localisation remain relatively underexplored in orchard environments.
In this paper, a novel RGB-D perception framework is proposed for robust apple
detection and 3D localisation in complex orchard environments. The proposed method
integrates a dual-detector 2D apple detection strategy based on YOLOv8 and Mask R-
CNN with depth-aware masking and 3D back-projection. By fusing confidence-weighted
bounding boxes and instance-level segmentation masks, the proposed method improves
detection stability under leaf occlusion, inter-fruit occlusion, and dense fruit clustering.
Subsequently, depth-consistent back-projection enables accurate fruit-level 3D localisation
using robust centroid estimation. Extensive experiments are conducted using public
benchmark datasets and real-world orchard data collected in Lenswood, South Australia.
The results demonstrate that the proposed method achieves reliable real-time performance
while maintaining high detection accuracy and precise 3D localisation across diverse
environmental conditions. The proposed framework differs from existing apple detection
and localisation approaches in several key aspects. The main contributions of this paper
are summarised as follows:
1.
A paired RGB-depth data augmentation strategy that applies coordinated geometric and
photometric transformations to enhance robustness against viewpoint variation, scale
changes, and illumination fluctuations commonly encountered in orchard environments.
2.
A dual-detector apple perception framework that integrates YOLOv8 and Mask
R-CNN through confidence-weighted bounding box fusion and pixel-wise mask
union, achieving robust and stable two-dimensional detection under occlusion, dense
clustering, and complex backgrounds.
3.
A depth-aware back-projection scheme that converts fused two-dimensional detec-
tions into fruit-level three-dimensional point sets within the camera coordinate system
for accurate metric localisation.
4.
A depth-consistency weighting strategy for robust centroid estimation, which sup-
presses unreliable depth pixels and mitigates the influence of occlusions and depth
noise on 3D centre computation.
5.
A local intensity normalisation mechanism that reduces illumination-induced ap-
pearance variations and enhances segmentation and detection consistency in both
high-light and low-light orchard scenes.
https://doi.org/10.3390/robotics15020047

Robotics 2026, 15, 47
3 of 21
6.
Extensive evaluation on public benchmark datasets and real-world orchard data
demonstrating high detection accuracy, precise 3D localisation, and real-time perfor-
mance on an embedded platform.
These design choices distinguish the proposed system from established methodologies
and contribute to its improved accuracy and stability in complex orchard environments.
The remainder of this paper is organised as follows. Section 2 reviews related work
on vision-based fruit detection and localisation. Section 3 presents the proposed dual-
detector apple detection and depth-aware 3D localisation methodology. Section 4 reports
the experimental results and provides a detailed discussion. Finally, Section 5 concludes
the paper and outlines directions for future research.
2. Related Work
The growing limitations of RGB-only perception in orchard environments have
prompted increased research attention toward improving robustness against foliage oc-
clusion, background clutter, and visually ambiguous scenes. Initial deep learning-based
approaches to fruit detection largely relied on convolutional neural networks to improve
two-dimensional detection accuracy in outdoor imagery [12–14]. These methods achieved
strong performance under favourable conditions where fruits were clearly visible. Recent
studies have also explored YOLO-based perception frameworks for agricultural robotics,
including generative AI-driven decision-making pipelines that integrate visual detection
with execution planning for fruit picking, demonstrating the effectiveness of YOLO architec-
tures as reliable front-end detectors in complex orchard environments [15]. However, their
reliability decreased substantially in realistic orchard scenarios involving dense canopies,
overlapping fruits, and pronounced illumination variation [16]. Under such conditions,
dependence on colour and texture information alone frequently resulted in missed detec-
tions and unstable localisation, thereby encouraging later studies to investigate alternative
feature representations and complementary sensing modalities to enhance detection ro-
bustness in complex orchard environments. To alleviate these challenges, instance-level
segmentation techniques were introduced to provide finer spatial delineation of indi-
vidual fruits. Compared with bounding-box-based detection, pixel-wise segmentation
enables more accurate separation of adjacent apples and improves fruit counting and
shape estimation in clustered scenes [17–19]. Nevertheless, segmentation accuracy remains
sensitive to background similarity and partial occlusion, particularly when fruits share
colour characteristics with surrounding foliage. In addition, the computational complex-
ity of segmentation-based approaches often limits their suitability for real-time robotic
applications [20,21]. The integration of depth information has therefore emerged as an
important direction for enhancing orchard perception. RGB-D sensing provides explicit
geometric cues that complement appearance-based features, enabling improved discrimina-
tion between fruits and background structures [22,23]. Several studies have combined RGB
imagery with depth maps to suppress background clutter, filter irrelevant regions, and en-
hance spatial consistency in fruit detection and localisation [24]. These results demonstrate
that depth cues can substantially improve robustness under challenging lighting conditions
and partial occlusion. Beyond detection, accurate three-dimensional (3D) localisation is
a critical requirement for robotic harvesting systems, where precise fruit positioning di-
rectly influences grasp planning and manipulation success. Existing approaches typically
estimate fruit positions by back-projecting 2D detections into 3D space using camera cal-
ibration parameters and depth measurements [25–27]. Although effective in controlled
scenarios, such methods are highly dependent on the reliability of upstream 2D detection
outputs. Inaccuracies in bounding boxes or segmentation masks propagate directly to the
3D reconstruction stage, leading to unstable localisation in cluttered orchard environments.
https://doi.org/10.3390/robotics15020047

Robotics 2026, 15, 47
4 of 21
To address occlusion and incomplete depth observations, point-cloud-based reasoning and
frustum-constrained processing have been investigated for fruit localisation under dense
canopy structures [11,28]. By restricting 3D reasoning to regions of interest defined by 2D
detections, these methods improve localisation accuracy for partially visible fruits.
In
addition, geometry-aware three-dimensional point cloud learning strategies have been
shown to further improve spatial reasoning for precise cutting-point and manipulation tar-
get detection in unstructured field environments, highlighting the importance of combining
geometric constraints with deep perception for agricultural robotics [29]. However, their
effectiveness remains limited by the quality of the initial detection results and the ability to
reliably separate individual fruit instances in close proximity. More recently, multi-model
and ensemble-based perception strategies have been explored to exploit complementary
strengths of different deep learning architectures [30–32]. By combining detectors with
distinct inductive biases, these approaches aim to improve detection stability across di-
verse orchard conditions. In agricultural applications, such strategies have demonstrated
improved robustness in scenes involving inter-fruit occlusion and background clutter.
Nevertheless, many existing fusion approaches operate at a coarse decision level and lack
tight integration with depth-aware geometric reasoning. Despite these advances, unified
RGB-D perception frameworks that jointly address robust 2D detection, reliable instance
separation, and depth-consistent 3D localisation remain relatively underexplored. Most
existing pipelines rely on a single detection backbone or treat depth processing as a post
hoc refinement step, limiting their ability to fully exploit complementary appearance and
geometric information [33–35]. Furthermore, few studies explicitly focus on stabilising
detection outputs prior to 3D reconstruction, which is critical for maintaining localisation
accuracy in dynamic orchard environments. Recent trends in agricultural robotics empha-
sise the need for tightly coupled perception pipelines that integrate multiple detection
modalities with geometric reasoning in a unified framework [36–40]. Such integration is
particularly important for handling simultaneous challenges including leaf-induced occlu-
sion, fruit-to-fruit overlap, scale variation, and complex background clutter. These gaps
in the existing literature motivate the development of robust RGB-D perception architec-
tures that combine complementary 2D detectors with depth-aware fusion and localisation
strategies, as pursued in this work.
3. Dual-Detector Apple Detection and Depth-Aware 3D Localisation
The proposed method adopts a unified RGB-D perception architecture that integrates
data augmentation, dual-detector two-dimensional (2D) apple detection, and depth-aware
three-dimensional (3D) localisation within a single processing pipeline. Synchronised RGB
and depth images are first subjected to paired data augmentation, including geometric
transformations (flipping and scaling) and photometric adjustments (brightness, contrast,
and hue), which are applied consistently to preserve spatial correspondence and enhance
robustness to real-world variability. The augmented inputs are then processed by a dual-
detector 2D apple detection module that jointly employs YOLOv8 and Mask R-CNN to
exploit their complementary strengths. YOLOv8 serves as the primary object localisation
component, providing efficient and reliable 3D position proposals through multi-scale
feature extraction enhanced by spatial-channel reallocation, residual feature aggregation,
and multi-receptive-field context modelling, making it effective under varying illumination
and partial occlusion. In parallel, Mask R-CNN performs instance-level segmentation
using an instance feature extractor with a Feature Pyramid Network (FPN) and dense
boundary encoding, producing precise pixel-wise apple masks that accurately delineate
fruit boundaries, particularly in cases of overlap or dense clustering.
https://doi.org/10.3390/robotics15020047

Robotics 2026, 15, 47
5 of 21
YOLOv8 and Mask R-CNN were selected because they exhibit complementary
strengths that are particularly beneficial in complex orchard environments. YOLOv8
follows a single-stage detection paradigm with multi-scale feature aggregation, enabling
rapid and reliable localisation of apple candidates across a wide range of object sizes and
viewpoints. This makes YOLOv8 well suited for real-time operation and for handling
scenes containing many fruits distributed over large image areas. In contrast, Mask R-CNN
adopts a two-stage detection and segmentation strategy that emphasises region refinement
and pixel-level mask prediction, producing accurate instance boundaries even when fruits
overlap or are partially occluded by foliage. While Mask R-CNN is more computationally
demanding, its precise segmentation capability provides detailed shape information that is
difficult to obtain from bounding-box-based detectors alone. By combining YOLOv8 and
Mask R-CNN, the proposed framework exploits the fast and stable localisation of YOLOv8
together with the high-quality boundary delineation of Mask R-CNN. This complemen-
tary behaviour is particularly advantageous in scenarios involving dense fruit clustering,
inter-fruit occlusion, and background clutter, where relying on a single detector often leads
to missed detections or inaccurate instance separation. The fusion of their outputs there-
fore results in more reliable two-dimensional apple representations, which subsequently
improve the accuracy and robustness of depth-aware three-dimensional localisation.
The outputs of both detectors are integrated through a stabilised detection fusion
strategy that refines bounding boxes using mask-derived spatial constraints and enforces
confidence-weighted agreement between detectors, resulting in robust and consistent 2D
apple detections. Before fusion, the confidence scores produced by YOLOv8 and Mask R-
CNN are normalised to a common scale to ensure numerical comparability. Both detectors
are trained on the same apple datasets using identical annotation protocols and consistent
optimisation settings, which promotes similar confidence behaviour across diverse orchard
scenes. Empirical evaluation shows that high-confidence predictions from both networks
consistently correspond to correct detections, indicating that the confidence-weighted
fusion scheme provides a reliable measure of detection reliability. These fused detections
are subsequently projected into 3D space using a depth back-projection module, where
pixel-level depth values within each detected fruit region are mapped to the camera
coordinate frame to form fruit-level 3D point sets. Depth consistency filtering is applied to
suppress noise and outliers, followed by robust centroid estimation to obtain accurate 3D
apple coordinates. By tightly coupling appearance- dual-detector perception with depth-
aware geometric reasoning, the proposed architecture achieves reliable apple detection
and localisation under challenging orchard conditions, including occlusion, illumination
variation, and dense fruit clustering. The complete processing pipeline of the proposed
method, including RGB-depth augmentation, dual-detector two-dimensional perception,
and depth-guided three-dimensional localisation, is shown in Figure 1.
The method is organised into seven stages: (i) data augmentation, (ii) dual-detector
fusion for 2D boxes and masks, (iii) depth back-projection to obtain a 3D point cloud,
(iv) robustness to occlusions and illumination variation, (v) apple size estimation in both
pixel and metric units, (vi) reconstruction of a 3D localisation, and (vii) evaluation using
standard detection metrics. The detailed formulation of each component in the proposed
framework is described comprehensively using mathematical equations.
Deep-learning detectors require diverse and representative training data to generalise
to the wide range of viewpoints, scales, and lighting conditions commonly observed in
orchards. Because collecting such variation-rich datasets is costly and time-consuming,
data augmentation becomes an essential component of the proposed pipeline. In this
work, we apply a set of geometric and photometric transformations that simulate realistic
https://doi.org/10.3390/robotics15020047

Robotics 2026, 15, 47
6 of 21
appearance changes while preserving the structural integrity of the fruit. The following
equations formalise these transformations and introduce the associated notation.
Figure 1. Overview of the proposed RGB-D perception architecture for apple detection and three-
dimensional localisation. The framework integrates RGB-depth data augmentation, dual-detector
two-dimensional apple perception using YOLOv8 and Mask R-CNN with stabilised fusion, and depth-
aware back-projection for accurate fruit-level 3D position estimation.
The augmentation process begins with horizontal flipping, which mirrors the image
across a vertical axis through its centre according to
Iflip(u, v) = I(W −u, v),
(1)
where W is the image width and I(u, v) denotes the original pixel intensity. This ensures
that the detector develops left-right invariance, allowing it to recognise apples regardless of
whether they appear on the left or right side of the scene. To simulate variations in camera
orientation, each image is additionally subjected to in-plane rotation, applied around the
optical centre using
"
u′
v′
#
=
"
cos θ
−sin θ
sin θ
cos θ
#"
u −ur
v −vr
#
+
"
ur
vr
#
,
(2)
https://doi.org/10.3390/robotics15020047

Robotics 2026, 15, 47
7 of 21
where (ur, vr) is the rotation centre and θ is the rotation angle. This transformation en-
courages robustness to arbitrary viewpoint changes caused by uneven terrain or natural
robot movement.
To account for the varying distances at which apples may appear, we apply anisotropic
scaling, defined by
"
us
vs
#
=
"
sx
0
0
sy
#"
u
v
#
,
(3)
where sx and sy control the horizontal and vertical scaling. This operation adjusts the ap-
parent size of the fruit, enabling the detector to learn scale-invariant features and maintain
consistent performance across different viewing distances.
To model illumination changes commonly observed in orchards, a brightness adjust-
ment is applied,
Ibright(u, v) = γ I(u, v),
(4)
where γ > 0 regulates global brightness. This reproduces conditions ranging from shaded
canopy regions to strongly sunlit patches, reducing the likelihood of illumination-related
detection errors. Beyond geometric transformation, orchard imagery also exhibits consid-
erable photometric variation, so we further introduce a contrast adjustment to expand or
compress the dynamic range of intensities,
Icontrast(u, v) = λ
 I(u, v) −µ
 + µ,
(5)
where λ is a contrast scaling factor and µ is the mean intensity.
The colour appearance of fruit is further diversified through a hue-shift transformation,
applied in HSV space as
H′(u, v) =
 H(u, v) + ∆h

mod 360,
(6)
where ∆h is the hue offset. This accounts for natural variations in apple colouration as well
as lighting-induced colour shifts.
All geometric and photometric modifications are combined into a single augmentation
pipeline, applied sequentially as
I′ = Thue ◦Tcontrast ◦Tbright ◦Tscale ◦Trotate ◦Tflip(I),
(7)
with corresponding transformations applied to the depth image to maintain pixel-wise
alignment. This integrated process produces highly diverse yet physically consistent
training samples, significantly enhancing detector robustness under the complex visual
conditions typical of orchard environments.
Following augmentation, the enhanced image pair (I′, D′) is processed through two
complementary detectors to obtain accurate 2D localisations of apples. The first detec-
tor, YOLOv8, produces a set of bounding boxes, instance masks, and confidence values
according to
(BY, MY, cY) = YOLOv8(I′, D′),
(8)
where BY denotes the predicted bounding boxes, MY the associated segmentation masks,
and cY their confidence scores.
To refine these detections, the same input is passed through Mask R-CNN, which
generates higher-precision boundaries via
(BR, MR, cR) = MaskRCNN(I′, D′),
(9)
https://doi.org/10.3390/robotics15020047

Robotics 2026, 15, 47
8 of 21
where BR, MR, and cR represent the bounding boxes, masks, and confidence values pre-
dicted by the second detector.
To combine the strengths of both detectors, the bounding boxes predicted by YOLOv8
and Mask R-CNN are fused using a confidence-weighted average,
B = cYBY + cRBR
cY + cR
,
(10)
where BY and BR are the bounding boxes predicted by YOLOv8 and Mask R-CNN, respec-
tively, and cY and cR denote their associated confidence scores. This produces a single,
stabilised bounding box B for each detected apple.
The segmentation masks predicted by the two detectors are combined through a
pixelwise logical union,
M = 1[MY + MR > 0],
(11)
where MY and MR represent the masks generated by YOLOv8 and Mask R-CNN. The re-
sulting mask M retains any pixel identified as fruit by either detector, providing a more
complete segmentation of the apple. Although a pixelwise logical union of segmentation
masks may potentially enlarge object regions when the two detectors partially disagree,
this seemingly adverse effect is mitigated in the proposed framework through spatial and
geometric constraints. Specifically, the union operation is applied only within the refined
fused bounding box, and pixels that violate subsequent depth-consistency filtering are
suppressed during 3D reconstruction. As a result, spurious regions introduced by partial
detector disagreement are effectively removed in later processing stages. This design allows
the mask union to improve fruit surface coverage under occlusion while avoiding uncon-
trolled mask expansion.
The combined detections for all apples in the image are then expressed compactly as
D = {(Bi, Mi, ci)}N
i=1,
(12)
where each tuple (Bi, Mi, ci) corresponds to one detected fruit and includes its fused
bounding box Bi, fused segmentation mask Mi, and the resulting confidence score ci.
The set D therefore contains the complete collection of detections for all N apples present
in the augmented image and forms the basis for subsequent 3D reconstruction.
To estimate each apple’s spatial location, the fused mask is projected into 3D using
depth values from the corresponding pixels. Each pixel (u, v) is mapped into the camera
coordinate frame via
q(u, v) =
 (u −up) D(u, v)/ fu, (v −vp) D(u, v)/ fv, D(u, v)

,
(13)
where (up, vp) is the principal point and fu, fv are the focal lengths. This transformation
converts 2D image coordinates and their depths into 3D positions, providing the basis for
reconstructing the visible portion of the fruit.
After back-projecting the pixels belonging to each fused mask, we obtain a discrete set
of 3D points that represents the visible surface of the fruit. This set is defined as
Q = { q(u, v) | (u, v) ∈M },
(14)
where Q contains all 3D coordinates corresponding to pixels marked as fruit in the seg-
mentation mask M. Aggregating these points forms a partial surface reconstruction that is
robust to missing regions or incomplete views.
https://doi.org/10.3390/robotics15020047

Robotics 2026, 15, 47
9 of 21
To estimate the fruit’s spatial centre, we compute the geometric median of the 3D
points in Q, expressed as
c = arg min
y ∑
x∈Q
∥x −y∥2,
(15)
where c is the 3D centroid and ∥·∥2 denotes the Euclidean norm. The geometric median
provides a stable estimate of the fruit centre because it reduces sensitivity to noisy depth
measurements or stray pixels that may be incorrectly included in the mask.
Depth noise caused by foliage, branches, or abrupt shading transitions can distort the
surface reconstruction. To mitigate such effects, we assign each pixel a depth- weight
w(p) = exp
 
−
 D(p) −zavg
2
2σ2
!
,
(16)
where p = (u, v) is a pixel, D(p) denotes its depth value, zavg is the mean depth of all
mask pixels, and σ is a tolerance parameter. The parameter σ controls the sensitivity of
the weighting function to depth deviations and therefore determines the strength of noise
suppression. In this work, σ is selected empirically on preliminary experiments conducted
on the validation set, where different values were evaluated to balance outlier rejection
and preservation of valid fruit surface points. A small σ produces a narrow weighting
distribution, aggressively down-weighting pixels whose depths deviate from the mean
and effectively suppressing noise caused by foliage, branches, and mixed pixels, but may
discard legitimate surface points. Conversely, a large σ results in smoother weighting,
retaining more pixels at the risk of admitting noisy measurements. The chosen σ provides a
compromise between these two extremes, yielding stable centroid estimates while maintain-
ing sufficient surface coverage. This setting was found to be robust across different orchard
scenes and illumination conditions. A Gaussian model is adopted for depth-consistency
weighting because it provides a smooth and symmetric attenuation of depth outliers while
preserving pixels close to the dominant fruit surface. Although a fixed σ is used in this
work, its value is selected to be proportional to the typical depth variation observed within
apple surfaces in the training data, which implicitly accommodates moderate differences
in fruit size and viewing distance. Larger fruits or closer viewpoints naturally exhibit
greater surface depth variation, whereas smaller or distant fruits produce tighter depth
distributions; the selected σ was empirically chosen to remain effective across these cases.
Validation experiments confirmed that the chosen setting yields stable centroid estimation
under varying occlusion levels without requiring per-fruit parameter adaptation, offering a
practical compromise between robustness and computational simplicity.
Using these depth-consistent weights, we refine the 3D centre estimate as
cw = ∑p∈M w(p) q(p)
∑p∈M w(p)
,
(17)
where q(p) is the 3D back-projected point for pixel p. This weighted centre places greater
emphasis on depth-reliable pixels and thus improves robustness when parts of the fruit are
partially hidden behind leaves or branches.
To compensate for illumination variations across the fruit surface, we apply local
intensity normalisation, defined by
In(u, v) = I′(u, v) −µL
σL
,
(18)
The neighbourhood size used to compute the local mean µL and standard deviation σL is
defined by a square window centred at each pixel, where I′(u, v) is the augmented image
https://doi.org/10.3390/robotics15020047

Robotics 2026, 15, 47
10 of 21
and the statistics are calculated within a neighbourhood around pixel (u, v). In the current
implementation, a fixed k × k window with k = 9 is used for all experiments. This size was
selected empirically through validation to provide a good balance between local contrast
enhancement and noise robustness. Smaller windows tend to amplify sensor noise and
local texture fluctuations, whereas larger windows oversmooth local details and reduce the
effectiveness of normalisation near fruit boundaries. The chosen window size therefore
preserves local structural details while sufficiently compensating for gradual illumination
changes. In addition, because µL and σL are computed independently for each pixel on its
surrounding neighbourhood, the normalisation operation adapts automatically to spatially
varying lighting conditions across the image, enabling consistent enhancement under both
strong illumination and low-light scenarios.
After normalising local pixel intensities, we estimate the apparent fruit size directly
from the segmentation mask. Assuming a near-circular silhouette, the effective pixel
diameter is approximated by
dpix =
r
4|M|
π
,
(19)
where |M| denotes the number of mask pixels and π ≈3.1416. This relation follows
from the area-to-diameter formula for a circle and provides a convenient approximation of
the fruit’s diameter in pixel units without requiring explicit contour fitting. The metric
diameter estimation in Equation (19) assumes a near-circular silhouette as a simplifying ap-
proximation of the apple’s projected shape. While real apples may exhibit slight elongation
and segmentation masks may be incomplete under partial occlusion, this assumption is
used only to obtain an initial size estimate rather than a precise shape model. In practice,
the influence of non-circular or partially visible silhouettes is reduced by averaging depth
over all mask pixels and by subsequent geometric analysis of lateral and depth extents
(Equations (23) and (24)), which account for ellipsoidal shape variations and perspective
effects. Empirical evaluation indicates that the resulting metric diameter remains stable
across different fruit orientations and moderate occlusion levels, making the approximation
suitable for real-time harvesting applications where computational efficiency is required.
To account for perspective effects, we compute the average depth across all mask
pixels as
zavg =
1
|M| ∑
p∈M
D(p),
(20)
where D(p) is the depth at pixel p. Averaging the depth over the entire mask yields a stable
estimate of the fruit’s distance from the camera by reducing the influence of local curvature,
noise, or partially occluded regions.
Combining the apparent pixel diameter with the estimated depth, we convert the fruit
size into metric units using the pinhole camera model,
dm ≈dpix · zavg
fu
,
(21)
where dm is the diameter in metres and fu is the horizontal focal length expressed in pixels.
This linear scaling arises from the geometric projection relation, enabling an efficient metric
diameter estimate without performing full 3D sphere fitting.
https://doi.org/10.3390/robotics15020047

Robotics 2026, 15, 47
11 of 21
To maintain consistency between image and world coordinates, we use the camera
projection matrix to map 3D points into pixel coordinates,
Z


u
v
1

=


fu
0
up
0
fv
vp
0
0
1




X
Y
Z

,
(22)
where (X, Y, Z) are the 3D camera-frame coordinates, (u, v) are the corresponding pixel
coordinates, fu and fv are the horizontal and vertical focal lengths, and (up, vp) is the
principal point. This compact form expresses the standard pinhole projection, ensuring
geometric consistency between the fruit’s 3D structure and its 2D image footprint.
Finally, we compute the fruit’s lateral 3D extent from the extreme points of the recon-
structed surface,
dx = XR −XL,
dy = YB −YT,
(23)
where XR and XL are the rightmost and leftmost 3D coordinates along the X-axis, and YB
and YT are the bottom and top coordinates along the Y-axis. These spans capture the
horizontal and vertical extents of the fruit in metric space, providing further geometric cues
for size estimation and shape analysis.
To estimate the depth extent of the fruit from its lateral spans, we fit a quadratic
regression model that relates the observed horizontal and vertical extents to the underlying
3D depth of the fruit. The estimated depth is expressed as
dz ≈a0 + a1d2
x + a2d2
y + a3dx + a4dy,
(24)
where dz denotes the fruit’s depth extent, dx and dy are the lateral spans defined in
Equation (23), and a0, . . . , a4 are regression coefficients learned from calibration fruit. The
regression coefficients are obtained using a supervised calibration procedure in which a set
of representative apples with measured metric dimensions is used to fit the quadratic model
via least-squares regression. The calibration set includes fruits spanning different sizes,
shapes, and maturity stages, ensuring coverage of typical intra-class variability. Because the
regression relates geometric extents rather than appearance features, the learned mapping
captures structural properties that are largely independent of colour or cultivar. Validation
experiments on both benchmark datasets and real orchard data indicate that the calibrated
model provides stable depth-extent estimates across different apple varieties and mod-
erate shape variations, supporting its generalisability in practical orchard environments.
This quadratic formulation captures the empirical relationship between lateral and depth
extents, accommodating ellipsoidal shape variations and perspective foreshortening that
occur at different viewing angles.
With the lateral and depth spans determined, we compute the Euclidean distance
from the camera to the fruit centre as
D =
q
X2c + Y2c + Z2c,
(25)
where (Xc, Yc, Zc) are the 3D coordinates of the fruit centre. This range estimate is useful
for robot reach planning, collision avoidance, and determining safe approach distances for
manipulation. Finally, each 3D vertex is projected back into pixel space using the camera
model of Equation (22). This enables consistent visualisation and alignment between
the reconstructed 3D fruit and the original image data, facilitating quality inspection,
annotation, or multi-view fusion.
https://doi.org/10.3390/robotics15020047

Robotics 2026, 15, 47
12 of 21
To quantify detection performance, we report standard evaluation metrics commonly
used in multi-fruit localisation tasks. Precision is defined as
P =
TP
TP + FP,
(26)
where TP denotes the true positive detections number and FP shows false positives.
Precision measures the proportion of system detections that correctly correspond to apples,
penalising erroneous predictions caused by leaves, branches, or background clutter.
Complementing precision, recall evaluates the system’s capability to identify all apples
present in the scene, and is given by
R =
TP
TP + FN ,
(27)
where FN corresponds to false negatives, i.e., apples present in the image but missed by
the detector. Recall therefore captures completeness, rewarding systems that successfully
identify dim, occluded, or partially visible fruit instances.
To provide a balanced measure that incorporates both precision and recall, we compute
the harmonic mean of the two metrics, known as the F1-score:
F1 = 2PR
P + R.
(28)
The F1-score condenses performance into a single interpretable value, making it suitable
for comparing different detection models or evaluating the system under varying levels of
occlusion and scene complexity. The complete procedure of the proposed apple detection
and three-dimensional localisation method is summarised in Algorithm 1.
The complete procedure for our apple detection and 3D localisation pipeline is sum-
marised in Algorithm, which outlines the augmentation steps, dual-detector fusion, depth
projection, and geometric reconstruction stages used to obtain metric fruit dimensions.
Algorithm 1: Apple Detection & 3D Localisation (Proposed).
Input: I, D, intrinsics K = ( fu, fv, uc, vc), detectors YOLOv8, Mask R-CNN, coeffs
α0 . . . α4
Output: D and optionally P, R, F1
(Training only) Augment (I, D) with flip/rotate/scale/photometric ops
(Equations (1)–(7)); denote (I′, D′).
(Inference) set (I′, D′) ←(I, D).
(Equations (1)–(7))
// 2D detection and mask fusion
(BY, MY, cY) ←YOLOv8(I′, D′); (BR, MR, cR) ←MaskRCNN(I′, D′)
B ←cYBY+cRBR
cY+cR
(Equation (8))
M ←1[MY + MR > 0]
(Equation (9))
c ←max(cY, cR)
(Equation (10))
Extract {(Bi, Mi, ci)}N
i=1
(Equations (11) and (12)).
https://doi.org/10.3390/robotics15020047

Robotics 2026, 15, 47
13 of 21
Algorithm 1: Cont.
for i = 1 to N do
// Back-project mask to 3D
q(u, v) =
 (u −uc)D/ fu, (v −vc)D/ fv, D

(Equation (13))
Qi ←{q(u, v) | (u, v) ∈Mi}
(Equation (14))
Projection constraint check
(Equation (15))
// Depth consistency weights
zavg =
1
|Mi| ∑p∈Mi D(p)
(Equation (16))
w(p) = exp

−(D(p)−zavg)2
2σ2

(Equation (17))
// Weighted centroid
ci =
∑p∈Mi w(p) q(p)
∑p∈Mi w(p)
(Equation (18))
// Size estimates
dpix =
p
4|Mi|/π
(Equation (19))
dm,i = dpix · zavg/ fu
(Equation (20))
(dx,i, dy,i) = maxX(Qi) −minX(Qi), maxY(Qi) −minY(Qi)
(Equation (21))
// Depth extent regression
dz,i = α0 + α1d2
x,i + α2d2
y,i + α3dx,i + α4dy,i
(Equation (24))
D =
p
X2c + Y2c + Z2c
(Equation (25))
Store (Bi, Mi, ci, ci, dm,i, dx,i, dy,i, dz,i, {Vi,j}) in D.
(Optional evaluation)
P =
TP
TP+FP
(Equation (26))
R =
TP
TP+FN
(Equation (27))
F1 = 2PR
P+R
(Equation (28))
return D and (optional) P, R, F1
4. Experimental Results and Discussion
4.1. Experimental Setup
The experimental setup of the proposed method is illustrated in Figure 2, which
presents the embedded computing platform, the RGB-D sensing configuration, and the
real-world orchard environment used for field trials. All experiments were conducted
on an NVIDIA Jetson AGX- embedded system, shown in Figure 2a, which served as the
primary on-board processing unit. The Jetson AGX integrates a multi-core ARM CPU
and an NVIDIA GPU with dedicated CUDA and Tensor cores, supported by 32 GB of
LPDDR4x VRAM. This configuration enables efficient execution of deep learning- detection
networks and depth-aware three-dimensional perception tasks in real time. All runtime
performance results, including the reported detection inference speed of 86.42 FPS, were
measured on this embedded NVIDIA Jetson AGX platform using GPU-accelerated infer-
ence. The reported frame rate corresponds to the two-dimensional detection stage rather
than the full end-to-end pipeline and reflects performance achieved with an optimised
model configuration. This result demonstrates that the proposed detection framework
is suitable for practical deployment on embedded robotic harvesting systems requiring
low-latency perception. To support extended data acquisition and storage of RGB images,
depth maps, and intermediate processing outputs, an external 500 GB storage device was
connected to the platform.
https://doi.org/10.3390/robotics15020047

Robotics 2026, 15, 47
14 of 21
(a)
(b)
(c)
Figure 2. Experimental setup of the proposed method. (a) Embedded NVIDIA Jetson AGX computing
platform used for on-board processing. (b) RGB-D sensing configuration showing the camera
connected to the embedded platform. (c) Apple orchard in Lenswood, South Australia, where real-
world field experiments were conducted.
As shown in Figure 2b, an RGB-D camera was interfaced with the Jetson AGX to ac-
quire synchronised colour and depth streams. The camera provides aligned per-pixel depth
measurements together with high-resolution RGB imagery, ensuring accurate correspon-
dence between visual appearance and geometric information. This alignment is essential
for the proposed method, which relies on depth masking, geometric back-projection,
and fruit-level three-dimensional localisation. During data collection, the RGB-D camera
was operated in a handheld manner to emulate realistic sensing conditions encountered in
orchard environments. All perception, detection, and localisation processes were executed
directly on the embedded platform, demonstrating the feasibility of deploying the proposed
method for real-time, on-device operation. For network training and validation, the apple
dataset was divided into 2290 training images and 801 validation images. To maintain
consistency across experiments and optimise computational efficiency, all input images
were resized to a fixed resolution of 896 × 896 pixels during training. Two complemen-
tary datasets were employed to develop and evaluate the segmentation component of
the proposed apple detection framework. The first dataset was the publicly available
MinneApple dataset, which contains 1000 annotated orchard images and is widely used
as a benchmark in fruit detection research. The second dataset was the Amodal Apple
dataset, consisting of 3019 images, which provides a broader range of apple appearances
captured under diverse orchard conditions. To further characterise the representativeness
of the training data, the MinneApple and Amodal Apple datasets were analysed in terms
of occlusion level, lighting condition, and apple appearance. The datasets contain sam-
ples spanning three approximate occlusion categories: low occlusion (fully visible fruits),
medium occlusion (partial leaf or branch coverage), and high occlusion (severely occluded
or overlapping fruits). Images also cover diverse illumination conditions, including strong
sunlight, moderate daylight, shadow-dominated scenes, and low-light environments, re-
flecting realistic orchard variability. In addition, both datasets include multiple apple
varieties with noticeable differences in colour, size, and surface texture, ranging from green
to yellow and red cultivars, as well as varying maturity stages. This diversity ensures
that the training data expose the proposed model to a wide range of visual and geomet-
ric variations, supporting robust generalisation across different orchard scenarios. The
combined use of these datasets exposes the model to variations in occlusion, illumination,
scale, and fruit arrangement, thereby improving generalisation performance. In addition to
dataset-based evaluation, real-world field experiments were conducted in an apple orchard
located in Lenswood, South Australia, as shown in Figure 2c. During these trials, RGB-D
data were collected by walking through the orchard while holding the RGB-D camera by
https://doi.org/10.3390/robotics15020047

Robotics 2026, 15, 47
15 of 21
hand. This data acquisition strategy reflects realistic operating conditions for mobile robotic
harvesting systems, including natural illumination changes, viewpoint variation, and com-
plex background clutter. Together, the controlled dataset experiments and the field trials
provide a comprehensive evaluation of the proposed method under both experimental
and real-world orchard conditions. All real-world orchard experiments were conducted
in Lenswood, South Australia, under naturally varying outdoor conditions. Data were
collected across different times of day, including morning and afternoon periods, resulting
in diverse illumination levels ranging from soft diffuse lighting to strong direct sunlight. Ex-
periments were performed under mostly clear and partly cloudy weather, with occasional
light wind, reflecting typical orchard operating conditions. The evaluated trees exhibit
common open-canopy and semi-dense architectures with varying foliage density, branch
arrangements, and fruit clustering patterns. These variations ensure that the collected data
are representative of practical orchard environments and facilitate reproducibility of the
experimental conditions.
4.2. Results and Discussion
Fruit detection and 3D localisation performance of the proposed framework is illus-
trated in Figures 3 and 4 under representative challenging orchard conditions. In Figure 3,
first row, apples are partially occluded by surrounding foliage, where the RGB image
alone provides weak visual contrast between fruit surfaces and background leaves, making
reliable detection difficult. In this case, the depth mask highlights foreground structures
and facilitates effective level separation, which suppresses irrelevant foliage regions while
retaining apple candidates. As a result, the segmentation stage preserves coherent fruit
boundaries, enabling stable and accurate two-dimensional (2D) detection despite signifi-
cant leaf-induced occlusion. The corresponding three-dimensional (3D) processing results
shown in Figure 4, first row, further demonstrate that the retained depth information sup-
ports consistent fruit-level point cloud reconstruction, allowing accurate spatial localisation
even when only partial fruit surfaces are visible.
In Figure 3, second row, the scene contains apple-to-apple occlusion, where neigh-
bouring fruits overlap in the image plane and produce ambiguous visual boundaries.
Under such conditions, the proposed dual-detector fusion benefits from complementary
bounding-box cues and instance-level segmentation, improving separation between ad-
jacent apples. Depth-aware masking further refines the segmentation by removing back-
ground interference, resulting in reliable 2D detections for individual fruits. This improved
instance separation is reflected in Figure 4, second row, where the reconstructed 3D views
show clearly separated fruit point sets and stable localisation outputs, indicating robustness
to inter-fruit occlusion.
The third row of Figure 3 illustrates scenarios involving densely clustered apples
distributed along branches, where minimal spacing between fruits often leads to merged
detections in conventional approaches. Despite these challenging conditions, the proposed
framework successfully maintains instance-level segmentation and consistent 2D detection
for multiple closely spaced apples. As shown in Figure 4, third row, the depth-guided
back-projection reconstructs distinct fruit-level 3D representations, enabling precise locali-
sation of each apple within the cluster. Overall, these qualitative results confirm that the
proposed method effectively integrates appearance-based perception with geometric depth
reasoning to handle foliage occlusion, inter-fruit overlap, and dense clustering in realistic
orchard environments.
https://doi.org/10.3390/robotics15020047

Robotics 2026, 15, 47
16 of 21
RGB image
Depth mask
Level
Segmentation
2D detection
Figure 3. Qualitative assessment of the proposed 2D apple detection pipeline under complex orchard
scenarios. Each row illustrates sequential processing stages, including the original RGB image, depth-
derived masking, level-based separation, segmentation output, and the final 2D detection result. The red
bounding boxes in the last column indicate the detected apple instances in the image plane. The first row
presents results under leaf-induced occlusion, the second row demonstrates performance in the presence
of inter-fruit occlusion, and the third row highlights reliable detection of densely grouped apples along
tree branches.
RGB image
Depth mask
3D view
3d detection
3D localisation
Figure 4. Qualitative evaluation of the proposed three-dimensional apple localisation framework in complex
orchard environments. Each row presents consecutive stages of the processing pipeline, including the RGB
input image, depth-based masking result, reconstructed 3D scene representation, fruit-level 3D detection, and
the final localisation output. The red bounding boxes shown in the last column indicate the detected apples
and their corresponding localisation results projected onto the image plane. The first row demonstrates
robustness to foliage-induced occlusion, the second row illustrates performance under inter-fruit occlusion,
and the third row highlights accurate localisation of densely clustered apples along branches.
https://doi.org/10.3390/robotics15020047

Robotics 2026, 15, 47
17 of 21
The qualitative performance of the proposed framework under challenging illumina-
tion and appearance conditions is showing in Figures 5 and 6. These results complement the
occlusion-focused analysis by examining the robustness of the proposed method to strong
lighting variation, low illumination, and colour ambiguity, which commonly degrade
vision-based perception in orchard environments.
RGB image
Depth mask
Level
Segmentation
2D detection
Figure 5. The first row demonstrates effective apple detection under strong illumination (high-light)
conditions, the second row highlights robust detection performance in low-light environments,
and the third row presents accurate detection of apples whose color closely resembles surrounding
foliage or other fruits.
In Figure 5, first row, apples are observed under strong illumination, where specular
reflections and high contrast introduce fragmented visual cues and obscure fruit boundaries
in the RGB image. In this scenario, the depth mask highlights foreground structures and
enables effective level separation, suppressing background foliage and shadowed regions.
As a result, the segmentation stage preserves coherent fruit regions, allowing stable and
accurate 2D detection despite intense lighting conditions. The corresponding 3D processing
results in Figure 6, first row demonstrate that depth-guided masking supports consistent
fruit-level point cloud reconstruction, leading to reliable three-dimensional localisation
even when RGB appearance is distorted by illumination effects.
In Figure 5, second row, scenes captured under low-light conditions are presented,
where reduced contrast and shadowing significantly weaken RGB-based fruit visibility.
Despite these challenges, the proposed framework maintains robust 2D detection by inte-
grating depth-derived cues with instance-level segmentation, preventing missed detections
caused by insufficient colour information. As shown in Figure 6, second row, the re-
constructed 3D views remain spatially coherent, and fruit-level localisation is preserved,
indicating that the proposed depth-aware back-projection effectively compensates for
degraded RGB cues in low-illumination environments.
The third row of Figure 5 illustrates cases in which apple colour and appearance closely
resemble surrounding foliage or neighbouring fruits, resulting in severe colour ambiguity.
In such scenarios, conventional RGB-based methods often struggle to distinguish fruit
boundaries. The proposed method overcomes this limitation by exploiting depth-guided
masking and instance-level segmentation, enabling accurate separation of fruit regions
https://doi.org/10.3390/robotics15020047

Robotics 2026, 15, 47
18 of 21
from visually similar backgrounds. This improved discrimination is reflected in Figure 6,
third row, where distinct fruit-level 3D point sets are reconstructed and precise spatial
localisation is achieved despite strong appearance similarity.
Overall, the qualitative results in Figures 5 and 6 demonstrate that the proposed
framework achieves reliable 2D apple detection and accurate 3D localisation across a wide
range of challenging illumination and appearance conditions. These findings confirm that the
tight integration of depth-aware filtering, dual-detector perception, and geometric reasoning
significantly enhances robustness in realistic orchard environments, supporting the suitability
of the proposed method for deployment in real-world robotic harvesting applications.
RGB image
Depth mask
3D view
3d detection
3D localisation
Figure 6. The top row presents 3D localisation results obtained under intense lighting conditions,
the middle row illustrates reliable performance in scenes affected by limited illumination, and the
bottom row demonstrates successful 3d localisation of apples whose color and appearance are highly
similar to surrounding fruits and foliage.
Although the proposed framework achieves robust performance in most orchard sce-
narios, some failure cases were observed under extreme conditions. Detection errors mainly
occur when severe occlusion, extreme illumination, and similar fruit-background colour are
present simultaneously, which can significantly degrade both appearance-based features
and depth reliability. When these factors co-exist, apples may become indistinguishable
from surrounding foliage and background structures, leading to incomplete segmentation
or missed detections. These observations indicate that the current method has reduced relia-
bility in highly adverse visual conditions. Future work will explore incorporating temporal
information from video sequences, illumination-invariant feature learning, and multi-view
perception to further improve robustness under such challenging scenarios.
The comparison methods reported in Table 1 were selected to represent a broad spec-
trum of widely adopted and state-of-the-art deep learning architectures for object detection
and instance segmentation in agricultural and outdoor vision applications. Lightweight
single-stage detectors such as MobileNetV3-based models are included to reflect approaches
prioritising real-time performance on embedded platforms. Two-stage detectors, including
Faster R-CNN and Mask R-CNN, are chosen as strong baselines that emphasise detection
accuracy and instance-level segmentation quality. In addition, improved YOLOv8 variants
and DaSNet are incorporated as recent high-performance models that have demonstrated
https://doi.org/10.3390/robotics15020047

Robotics 2026, 15, 47
19 of 21
competitive results in fruit detection and related agricultural perception tasks. Together,
these methods cover different design philosophies in terms of network complexity, infer-
ence speed, and accuracy, enabling a comprehensive and fair evaluation of the proposed
framework against current mainstream approaches.
Table 1. Performance comparison of different apple detection methods.
Method
Accuracy (%)
Recall (%)
F1-Score (%)
mAP (%)
FPS
Improved YOLOv8
95.2
87.4
91.0
93.3
72.5
DaSNet
92.1
82.1
86.9
88.4
41.2
MobileNetV3
93.8
79.7
86.1
87.1
90.5
Faster R-CNN
94.0
73.1
82.0
81.2
50.8
Mask R-CNN
96.0
92.7
85.2
89.0
78.6
Proposed Method
98.9
92.8
93.3
94.2
86.42
Table 1 presents a comparison between the proposed method and several representa-
tive apple detection approaches using accuracy, recall, F1-score, mean Average Precision
(mAP), and inference speed. The proposed method achieves the highest overall detection
accuracy (98.9%) and mAP (94.2%), indicating strong capability in both apple classification
and localisation under complex orchard conditions.
The proposed method also records the highest F1-score (93.3%), demonstrating a well-
balanced trade-off between detection precision and recall. Although Mask R-CNN achieves
a comparable recall value, its lower accuracy, F1-score, and inference speed indicate reduced
overall robustness. In contrast, the proposed approach maintains high recall (92.8%) while
improving detection consistency and localisation reliability, which is particularly important
for downstream three-dimensional perception tasks.
From a computational perspective, MobileNetV3 achieves the highest inference speed
due to its lightweight architecture; however, this advantage comes at the cost of reduced
accuracy and mAP. The proposed method maintains a high inference speed of 86.42 FPS
while simultaneously delivering superior detection and localisation performance. This
balance highlights its suitability for real-time deployment on embedded platforms.
Overall, while some baseline methods outperform the proposed approach in isolated
metrics such as inference speed or recall, none achieve comparable performance across
all evaluation criteria. The proposed method consistently provides strong performance in
accuracy, F1-score, mAP, and real-time capability, confirming its effectiveness for practical
orchard-based apple detection applications.
5. Conclusions
This study proposed a robust RGB-D perception framework for accurate apple detec-
tion and three-dimensional localisation in complex orchard environments. By integrating a
dual-detector two-dimensional perception strategy based on YOLOv8 and Mask R-CNN
with depth-aware back-projection, the proposed method improves detection stability and lo-
calisation accuracy under challenging conditions such as heavy foliage occlusion, inter-fruit
overlap, illumination variation, and background clutter. The dual-detector fusion leverages
complementary bounding-box and instance-level segmentation information to enhance
instance separation in densely clustered scenes, while depth-consistent back-projection
enables reliable reconstruction of fruit-level three-dimensional point sets and accurate
coordinate estimation through robust centroid computation. Extensive experiments on
public benchmark datasets and real-world orchard data collected in Lenswood, South
Australia, demonstrate that the proposed method achieves improved detection accuracy,
balanced precision and recall, and real-time performance on an embedded computing
platform. In future work, multi-view perception will be achieved by fusing RGB-D ob-
servations from either multiple calibrated cameras or a moving camera mounted on the
https://doi.org/10.3390/robotics15020047

Robotics 2026, 15, 47
20 of 21
robotic manipulator. Extrinsic calibration between cameras and the robot base will enable
alignment of all views into a common coordinate frame, followed by geometric fusion of
overlapping point clouds to obtain more complete fruit surface reconstructions. These
multi-view 3D representations will be used to generate grasp candidates based on surface
geometry and visibility. Sampling-based motion planners such as RRT or RRT* will then
compute collision-free trajectories for executing the selected grasps. This integration will
enable reliable coupling between multi-view perception and robotic grasp planning in
cluttered orchard environments.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, T.H. and P.S.; methodology, T.H.; software, T.H.; vali-
dation, T.H., P.S. and L.K.; formal analysis, T.H.; investigation, T.H.; resources, P.S. and L.K.; data
curation, T.H.; writing—original draft preparation, T.H.; writing—review and editing, T.H., P.S. and
L.K.; visualization, T.H.; supervision, P.S. and L.K.; project administration, P.S. All authors have read
and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research received no external funding.
Data Availability Statement: The datasets used and/or generated during the current study are not
publicly available, as they are directly related to ongoing research activities. However, the data may
be obtained from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.
References
1.
Zhao, Y.; Gong, L.; Huang, Y.; Liu, C. A Review of Key Techniques of Vision-Based Control for Harvesting Robot. Comput.
Electron. Agric. 2016, 127, 311–323.
2.
Indolia, S.; Goswami, A.K.; Mishra, S.P.; Asopa, P. Conceptual Understanding of Convolutional Neural Network—A Deep
Learning Approach. Procedia Comput. Sci. 2018, 132, 679–688.
3.
Wei, J.; As’arry, A.; Rezali, K.A.M.; Yusoff, M.Z.M.; Ma, H.; Zhang, K. A Review of YOLO Algorithm and Its Applications in
Autonomous Driving Object Detection. IEEE Access 2025, 13, 93688–93711.
4.
Ren, S.; He, K.; Girshick, R.; Sun, J. Faster R-CNN: Towards Real-Time Object Detection with Region Proposal Networks. Adv.
Neural Inf. Process. Syst. 2015, 28, 91–99.
5.
Abdulla, W. Mask R-CNN for Object Detection and Instance Segmentation on Keras and TensorFlow. GitHub Repository. 2017.
Available online: https://github.com/matterport/Mask_RCNN (accessed on 1 January 2026).
6.
Zhong, H.; Wang, H.; Wu, Z.; Zhang, C.; Zheng, Y.; Tang, T. A Survey of LiDAR and Camera Fusion Enhancement. Procedia
Comput. Sci. 2021, 183, 579–588.
7.
Gené-Mola, J.; Llorens, J.; Rosell-Polo, J.R.; Gregorio, E.; Arnó, J.; Solanelles, F.; Martínez-Casasnovas, J.A.; Escolà, A. Assessing the
Performance of RGB-D Sensors for 3D Fruit Crop Canopy Characterization under Different Operating and Lighting Conditions.
Sensors 2020, 20, 7072.
8.
Yoshida, T.; Kawahara, T.; Fukao, T. Fruit Recognition Method for a Harvesting Robot with RGB-D Cameras. ROBOMECH J. 2022,
9, 15.
9.
Fu, L.; Gao, F.; Wu, J.; Li, R.; Karkee, M.; Zhang, Q. Application of Consumer RGB-D Cameras for Fruit Detection and Localization
in Field: A Critical Review. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2020, 177, 105687.
10.
Gao, F.; Fang, W.; Sun, X.; Wu, Z.; Zhao, G.; Li, G.; Li, R.; Fu, L.; Zhang, Q. A Novel Apple Fruit Detection and Counting
Methodology Based on Deep Learning and Trunk Tracking in Modern Orchard. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2022, 197, 107000.
11.
Li, T.; Feng, Q.; Qiu, Q.; Xie, F.; Zhao, C. Occluded Apple Fruit Detection and Localization with a Frustum-Based Point-Cloud-
Processing Approach for Robotic Harvesting. Remote Sens. 2022, 14, 482.
12.
Wang, Z.; Xu, J.; Zhang, X.; Shen, A.; Zhang, Z.; Xun, Y. In Situ Detection and Measurement of Broccoli Heads under Different
Lighting Conditions Using Proximal Remote Sensing. J. Field Robot. 2025, 42, 4101–4114.
13.
Zhao, Z.; Hicks, Y.; Sun, X.; Luo, C. FruitQuery: A Lightweight Query-Based Instance Segmentation Model for In-Field Fruit
Ripeness Determination. Smart Agric. Technol. 2025, 12, 101068. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.atech.2025.101068.
14.
Ma, F.; Cavalheiro, G.V.; Karaman, S. Self-Supervised Sparse-to-Dense: Self-Supervised Depth Completion from LiDAR and
Monocular Camera. Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Robot. Autom. 2019, 3288–3295.
https://doi.org/10.3390/robotics15020047

Robotics 2026, 15, 47
21 of 21
15.
Zhou, Y.; Yu, C.; Zhang, J.; Liu, Y.; Kan, J.; Zou, X.; Zhang, K.; Li, H.; Zhang, S.; Wu, F. Vision-Based Perception and Execution
Decision-Making for Fruit Picking Robots Using Generative AI Models. Machines 2024, 14, 117. https://doi.org/10.3390/
machines14010117.
16.
Myint, B.B.; Onizuka, T.; Tin, P.; Aikawa, M.; Kobayashi, I.; Zin, T.T. Automated Cattle Detection Using Mask R-CNN and
IoU-Based Tracking with a Single Side-View Camera. Int. J. Innov. Comput. Inf. Control 2024, 20, 1439–1447.
17.
Molina, J.M.; Llerena, J.P.; Usero, L.; Patricio, M.A. Advances in Instance Segmentation: Technologies, Metrics and Applications
in Computer Vision. Neurocomputing 2025, 587, 129584.
18.
Mihajlovic, M.; Marjanovic, M. Enhancing Instance Segmentation in High-Resolution Images Using Slicing-Aided Hyper Inference
and Spatial Mask Merging Optimized via R-Tree Indexing. Mathematics 2025, 13, 3079.
19.
Sharma, R.; Saqib, M.; Lin, C.T.; Blumenstein, M. A Survey on Object Instance Segmentation. SN Comput. Sci. 2022, 3, 499.
20.
Valada, A.; Mohan, R.; Burgard, W. Self-Supervised Model Adaptation for Multimodal Semantic Segmentation. Int. J. Comput. Vis.
2020, 128, 1239–1285.
21.
Liu, Y.; Matsui, K.; Kageyama, Y.; Shirai, H.; Ishizawa, C. Improving a Faster R-CNN Model for Vehicle Detection and Human
Action Recognition at Night via Infrared Thermal Imaging Using Transfer Learning. Int. J. Innov. Comput. Inf. Control 2024, 20,
1573–1585.
22.
Park, K.; Kim, S.; Sohn, K. High-Precision Depth Estimation Using Uncalibrated LiDAR and Stereo Fusion. IEEE Trans. Intell.
Transp. Syst. 2020, 21, 321–335.
23.
Mousavian, A.; Anguelov, D.; Flynn, J.; Kosecka, J. 3D Bounding Box Estimation Using Deep Learning and Geometry. Comput.
Vis. Pattern Recognit. 2017, 5632–5640.
24.
Lu, S.; Chen, W.; Zhang, X.; Karkee, M. Canopy-Attention-YOLOv4-Based Immature/Mature Apple Fruit Detection on Dense-
Foliage Tree Architectures for Early Crop Load Estimation. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2022, 193, 106696.
25.
Wang, Y.; Chen, Y. Fruit Morphological Measurement Based on Three-Dimensional Reconstruction. Agronomy 2020, 10, 455.
26.
Li, Z.; Xu, X.; Xu, T.; Gao, Y.; Rao, X. Process, Challenges and Solutions of Fruit 3D Reconstruction: A Review. Comput. Electron.
Agric. 2025, 239, 111068.
27.
Ge, Y.; Xiong, Y.; From, P.J. Three-Dimensional Location Methods for the Vision System of Strawberry-Harvesting Robots:
Development and Comparison. Precis. Agric. 2023, 24, 764–782.
28.
He, X.; Zhang, X.; Wang, Y.; Ji, H.; Duan, X.; Guo, F. Spatial Attention Frustum: A 3D Object Detection Method Focusing on
Occluded Objects. Sensors 2022, 22, 2366.
29.
Wang, H.; Zhang, G.; Cao, H.; Hu, K.; Wang, Q.; Deng, Y.; Gao, J.; Tang, Y. Geometry-Aware 3D Point Cloud Learning for Precise
Cutting-Point Detection in Unstructured Field Environments. J. Field Robot. 2025, 42, 3063–3076. https://doi.org/10.1002/rob.22567.
30.
Scutelnic, D.; Daffara, C.; Muraddore, R.; Weinmann, M.; Jutzi, B. Multi-Model Ensembles for Object Detection in Multispectral Images:
A Case Study for Precision Agriculture. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2026, 240, 111213. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2025.111213.
31.
Almahasneh, M.; Paiement, A.; Xie, X.; Aboudarham, J. MLMT-CNN for Object Detection and Segmentation in Multi-Layer and
Multi-Spectral Images. Mach. Vis. Appl. 2022, 33, 9. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00138-021-01261-y.
32.
Kutyrev, A.; Andriyanov, N.; Khort, D.; Smirnov, I.; Zubina, V. Adaptive CNN Ensemble for Apple Detection: Enabling Sustainable
Monitoring Orchard. AgriEngineering 2025, 7, 369.
33.
Yang, X.; Gao, Y.; Yin, M.; Li, H. Automatic Apple Detection and Counting with AD-YOLO and MR-SORT. Sensors 2024, 24, 7012.
34.
Khosravi, H.; Saedi, S.I.; Rezaei, M. Real-Time Recognition of on-Branch Olive Ripening Stages by a Deep Convolutional Neural
Network. Sci. Hortic. 2021, 287, 110252.
35.
Wu, H.; Chen, K.; Ni, M.; Ma, L. Strip Surface Defect Detection Based on Improved YOLOv7. Int. J. Innov. Comput. Inf. Control
2024, 20, 1493–1507.
36.
Zuo, F.; Liu, J.; Chen, Z.; Zhang, H.; Fu, M.; Wang, L. Multilevel Fine-Grained Features-Based General Framework for Object
Detection. IEEE Trans. Cybern. 2024, 54, 6921–6933.
37.
Jaw, D.-W.; Huang, S.-C.; Lu, Z.-H.; Fung, B.C.M.; Kuo, S.-Y. Multidomain Object Detection Framework Using Feature Domain
Knowledge Distillation. IEEE Trans. Cybern. 2024, 54, 4643–4651.
38.
Yan, B.; Li, X. RGB-D Camera and Fractal-Geometry-Based Maximum Diameter Estimation Method of Apples for Robot Intelligent
Selective Graded Harvesting. Fractal Fract. 2024, 8, 649.
39.
Kang, H.; Zhou, H.; Chen, C. Visual Perception and Modeling for Autonomous Apple Harvesting. IEEE Access 2020, 8, 62151–62163.
40.
Sekharamantry, P.K.; Melgani, F.; Malacarne, J.; Ricci, R.; Almeida D, S, R.; Marcato, J. A Seamless Deep Learning Approach
for Apple Detection, Depth Estimation, and Tracking Using YOLO Models Enhanced by Multi-Head Attention Mechanism.
Computers 2024, 13, 83.
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
https://doi.org/10.3390/robotics15020047
