Citation: Hou, G.; Chen, H.; Jiang,
M.; Niu, R. An Overview of the
Application of Machine Vision in
Recognition and Localization of Fruit
and Vegetable Harvesting Robots.
Agriculture 2023, 13, 1814.
https://doi.org/10.3390/
agriculture13091814
Academic Editor: Wei Ji
Received: 4 August 2023
Revised: 30 August 2023
Accepted: 12 September 2023
Published: 14 September 2023
Copyright:
© 2023 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed
under
the
terms
and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
agriculture
Review
An Overview of the Application of Machine Vision in
Recognition and Localization of Fruit and Vegetable
Harvesting Robots
Guangyu Hou 1,2, Haihua Chen 3,*, Mingkun Jiang 1,2 and Runxin Niu 1,*
1
Hefei Institutes of Physical Science, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Hefei 230031, China;
hougy@mail.ustc.edu.cn (G.H.); jiangmk@mail.ustc.edu.cn (M.J.)
2
Science Island Branch, University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei 230026, China
3
Institute of Computer Science, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100190, China
*
Correspondence: chenhaihua@ict.ac.cn (H.C.); rxniu@iim.ac.cn (R.N.)
Abstract: Intelligent agriculture imposes higher requirements on the recognition and localization of
fruit and vegetable picking robots. Due to its unique visual information and relatively low hardware
cost, machine vision is widely applied in the recognition and localization of fruit and vegetable picking
robots. This article provides an overview of the application of machine vision in the recognition and
localization of fruit and vegetable picking robots. Firstly, the advantages, disadvantages, and the roles
of different visual sensors and machine vision algorithms in the recognition and localization of fruit
and vegetable picking robots are introduced, including monocular cameras, stereo cameras, structured
light cameras, multispectral cameras, image segmentation algorithms, object detection algorithms,
and 3D reconstruction algorithms. Then, the current status and challenges faced by machine vision
in the recognition and localization of fruit and vegetable picking robots are summarized. These
challenges include the stability of fast recognition under complex background interference, stability
of recognition under different lighting environments for the same crop, the reliance of recognition
and localization on prior information in the presence of fruit overlap and occlusions caused by
leaves and branches, and the uncertainty of picking caused by complex working environments. In
current research on algorithms dealing with complex background interference and various occlusion
disturbances, good results have been achieved. Different lighting environments have a signiﬁcant
impact on the recognition and positioning of fruits and vegetables, with a minimum accuracy of
59.2%. Finally, this article outlines future research directions to address these challenges.
Keywords: machine vision; fruit and vegetable harvesting robots; image recognition; visual localization
1. Introduction
As crop yields increase year by year, the labor cost for complex harvesting tasks
has signiﬁcantly risen. To cope with this trend, research on agricultural equipment is
increasingly inclined toward unmanned solutions. Both domestic and international studies
have been conducted on robotic harvesting for a variety of crops, including apples, oranges,
kiwis, lychees, strawberries, grapes, mangoes, tomatoes, cucumbers, and more. This ﬁeld
of research is attracting more attention because robotic harvesting of fruits and vegetables
can reduce harvesting costs and provide a new pathway for mechanized picking.
However, robotic harvesting of fruits and vegetables faces complex work environ-
ments and numerous uncertainties, making it difﬁcult to meet the requirements for accuracy,
speed, and stability in practical applications, thereby increasing the difﬁculty of harvesting.
To achieve efﬁcient and rapid fruit and vegetable picking operations, precise and stable
identiﬁcation and positioning systems are required [1]. Such systems are mainly based on
machine vision, which refers to the combination of computational algorithms and image
Agriculture 2023, 13, 1814. https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture13091814
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/agriculture

Agriculture 2023, 13, 1814
2 of 31
information. This includes the application of visual sensors and machine vision algo-
rithms [2]. Visual sensors are used to acquire image information and the three-dimensional
positioning of targets. Common visual sensors include monocular cameras [3], stereo
cameras [4], structured cameras [5], and multispectral cameras [6]. Machine vision algo-
rithms are used for target recognition. Common algorithms include image segmentation,
object detection, and three-dimensional reconstruction. Image segmentation algorithms can
segment target objects in complex scenes [7], object detection algorithms can timely detect
target objects and other interferences in images [8], while three-dimensional reconstruction
algorithms can convert the two-dimensional image information obtained by the camera
into three-dimensional spatial information of the target [9].
Accurate and stable identiﬁcation and positioning systems directly affect the opera-
tional efﬁciency of harvesting robots, whether crops are subject to mispicking and damage,
as well as issues related to mechanical vibration and collision damage of the robots them-
selves. In practical harvesting operations, the precision of target recognition and localization
is inﬂuenced by various factors, and the resolution of target recognition and localization
problems needs to be considered from multiple perspectives. (1) Interference from complex
work environments, including interference from complex backgrounds [10]; variations
in natural lighting [11]; fruit overlapping and obstruction from branches and leaves [12].
(2) Real-time issues with target detection and localization. (3) Harvesting robots face a
limited range of target objects and can only recognize targets based on pre-trained models;
thus, the algorithms need to enhance generalization abilities to detect multiple types of
fruits. (4) The recognition accuracy of visual sensors is low, resulting in low precision of
subsequent three-dimensional matching and target positioning [13]. (5) The actual working
conditions are complex and variable, requiring enhanced robustness of the robot control
system. Machine vision faces signiﬁcant challenges in the recognition and positioning
of fruit and vegetable harvesting robots. Therefore, accurate and applicable fruit and
vegetable identiﬁcation and positioning are crucial.
Although there have been reviews on the target recognition and localization tech-
nology of harvesting robots [14–18], the main contributions of this paper are as follows:
(1) This paper focuses on the analysis of the issues faced by fruit and vegetable harvest-
ing robots in recognition and positioning, and systematically summarizes and compares
various solution methods, evaluating their applicability. (2) This paper provides a more
comprehensive overview, introducing and analyzing a wider range of methods. It includes
the application of three-dimensional reconstruction algorithms in target recognition and
positioning, and highlights the improvement methods and advantages and disadvantages
of the YOLO model, a major object detection algorithm. (3) This paper further summarizes
and prospects the target recognition and positioning technology for fruit and vegetable
harvesting robots, taking it to new heights. It expands from the initial integration of
recognition and positioning techniques with sensors to the combination.
This paper introduces the progress and representative research achievements in the
ﬁeld of target recognition and localization for fruit picking robots in recent years. It is
elaborated in the following ﬁve aspects: (1) The introduction of various visual sensors, their
advantages, disadvantages, and roles when combined with different visual sensors. (2) The
introduction of the advantages and disadvantages of image segmentation algorithms,
object detection algorithms, and target three-dimensional reconstruction algorithms in the
recognition and localization of fruit picking robots. (3) An overview of the current situation
of machine vision in indoor and outdoor greenhouse environments for recognition and
localization purposes. (4) A summary of the challenges faced by machine vision in the
recognition and localization of fruit picking robots, including stability in fast recognition
under complex background interference, stability in recognition under different lighting
conditions for the same crop, reliance on prior information for recognition and localization
when fruits are overlapping or obstructed by leaves and branches, and uncertainty in
harvesting due to complex working environments. (5) Concluding remarks and future
research directions are provided.

Agriculture 2023, 13, 1814
3 of 31
2. Vision Recognition and Positioning System for Fruit and Vegetable
Harvesting Robots
2.1. Visual Sensors
According to Figure 1A, visual sensors can be divided into 2D image sensors and 3D
image sensors based on whether they simultaneously acquire depth information. The infor-
mation obtained by 2D image sensors includes color, shape, texture, and other morphologi-
cal characteristics. On the other hand, 3D image sensors can extract the three-dimensional
information of complex target fruits and vegetables, obtaining richer data, such as the
spatial coordinates of the target fruits and vegetables. Common visual sensors include
monocular cameras, stereo cameras, structured light cameras, and multispectral cameras.
Based on the selection of 49 publications, structured light cameras are the most commonly
used visual sensors, as shown in Figure 1B.
Figure 1. (A) Classiﬁcation of visual sensors. (B) Number of publications selected for each type
of visual sensor. (C) Census algorithm ﬂow [4]. (D) Three-dimensional information acquisition
model [4]. (E) Basic principles of depth information acquisition by structured light cameras [5].
(F) FPGA implementation of stereo matching [19].
Therefore, the selection of visual sensors for fruit and vegetable harvesting robots
varies depending on the growing environment. Please refer to Table 1 for speciﬁc informa-
tion. This table summarizes the application principles and advantages and disadvantages
of commonly used visual sensing technologies for fruit and vegetable harvesting robots.
2.1.1. Monocular Camera
In the ﬁeld of agriculture, monocular cameras have been widely used for target
localization in harvesting robots. The main challenge in monocular 3D object detection
is the lack of depth information to infer the distance of objects [3]. Therefore, combining
visual algorithms can address this weakness. The Beijing Institute of Intelligent Agriculture
Equipment utilizes a monocular camera to calculate the accurate coordinates of peripheral
fruits by measuring the deviation between the top fruit center and the image center [20]
(as shown in Figure 2A). The University of KU Leuven in Belgium has designed an apple
harvesting robot [21] that uses a monocular camera mounted at the center of a ﬂexible
gripper, ensuring the alignment between the gripper and the camera, simplifying the
image-to-robot-end-effector coordinate transformation and reducing image distortion (as
shown in Figure 2B). When approaching an apple, the remaining distance to the apple

Agriculture 2023, 13, 1814
4 of 31
is calculated through triangulation. The Graduate School of Agricultural Science at the
Iwate University [22] uses a monocular camera to locate the center of apple fruit and
the detachment layer of the stem under natural lighting conditions, establishing their
geometric relationship with a success rate of over 90%. Zhao et al. [23] identify apples
using a monocular camera based on color and texture features, achieving an accuracy rate
of 90%. The Industrial and Systems Engineering Department at the University of Florida
employs a single-camera system to obtain the three-dimensional position of citrus fruits
for localization [24]. Its characteristics are shown in Table 1. In the future, the application
of monocular cameras in agriculture needs to be further improved by combining other
technological means.
Table 1. Common visual sensors used in picking robots and their application principles and advan-
tages and disadvantages.
Types of Sensors
Applications and
Principles
Advantages
Disadvantages
Images
Monocular camera
Color, shape, texture, and
other features
Simple system structure,
low cost, can be combined
with multiple monocular
systems to form a
multi-camera system
It can only capture
two-dimensional image
information, has poor
stability, and cannot be
used in dark or low-light
conditions [25]
Stereo camera
Texture, color, and other
features; obtaining the
spatial coordinates of the
target through the
principle of triangulation
imaging
By combining algorithms,
the matching efﬁciency
can be improved, and
three-dimensional
coordinate information
can be obtained
It requires high sensor
calibration accuracy, and
the stereo matching
computation takes a long
time. It is also challenging
to determine the
three-dimensional
position of edge points
Structured camera
Obtaining
three-dimensional
features through the
reﬂection of structured
light by the object being
measured
The three-dimensional
features are not easily
affected by background
interference and have
better positioning
accuracy
Sunlight can cancel out
most of the infrared
images, and the cost is
high
Multispectral camera
Identifying targets based
on the differences in
radiation characteristics
of different wavelength
bands
It is not easily affected by
environmental
interference
It requires heavy
computational processing,
making it unsuitable for
real-time picking
operations
Monocular 3D object detection lacks depth information, and some researchers utilize
the combination of monocular vision and LiDAR for recognition and localization tasks.
Cao [26] utilizes two subsystems, LiDAR and monocular vision SLAM, for pose estimation.
The visual subsystem overcomes the limitation of the LiDAR subsystem, which can only
perform local calculations on geometric features, by detecting the entire line segments.
By adjusting the direction of linear feature points, a more accurate odometry system
is achieved. This system realizes more accurate pose estimation. Shu [27] proposes a
recognition and localization method that includes LiDAR feature extraction, visual feature
extraction, tracking, and visual feature depth recovery. By fusing inter-frame visual feature
tracking and LiDAR feature matching, a frame-to-frame odometry module is established
for rough pose estimation. Zhang [28] designs a visual system that trains using a database
obtained by coupling LiDAR measurements with a complementary 360-degree camera.
Cheng [29] based on distance, divides the depth map obtained from LiDAR and monocular
images into various sub-images and treats each sub-image as an individual image for

Agriculture 2023, 13, 1814
5 of 31
feature extraction. Each sub-image only contains pixels within a learning interval, thus
obtaining rich pixel depth information. Ma [30] uses the original image to generate pseudo-
LiDAR and bird’s-eye view, and then inputs the fused data of the original image and
pseudo-LiDAR into a keypoint-based network for initial 3D box estimation.
2.1.2. Stereo Camera
Stereoscopic cameras capture depth information by simulating the parallax of human
eyes. They utilize stereo matching algorithms to determine the spatial positions of picking
points (as shown in Figure 1C,D). The stereo matching algorithm calculates the disparity
by subtracting the horizontal coordinates of matching points in the left and right images
and then uses trigonometric measurement formulas to compute the baseline distance, the
average distance between the two cameras, and the distance between the branch skeleton
feature points and the cameras [4].
Based on the stereo vision approach, the depth can be determined by utilizing the
disparity between two monocular cameras [13]. The University of Florida proposed the use
of multiple monocular cameras for fruit localization in the context of robotic harvesting [31].
Edan [32] developed a stereo vision system using two monocular cameras for the detection
and positioning of watermelons. The Queensland University of Technology in Australia [33]
captured images of dynamic clusters of lychee using two monocular cameras and employed
stereo vision matching to calculate the spatial positions of interfered lychee clusters for
picking (as shown in Figure 2C,F). The depth accuracy range for the visual localization of
lychee picking points was 0.4 cm to 5.8 cm. As shown in Figure 2D, the Chinese Academy
of Agricultural Mechanization Sciences [34] used a mono-stereo vision sensor system to
obtain the three-dimensional coordinates of apples. Mrovlje [35] replaced two monocular
cameras with a binocular stereo camera system to calculate the position of objects using
stereo vision matching.
Pal [36] uses the continuous triangulation method to generate a three-dimensional
point cloud of the stereo camera. Wei [37] obtains the three-dimensional information of
apple tree obstacles through a binocular stereo camera. The binocular stereo system used
by Wuhan University of Technology [19] is implemented with the census stereo matching
algorithm and FPGA, as shown in Figure 1F. Guo [38] captures images of lychee clusters
using a binocular stereo vision system to obtain feature information such as the centroid
and minimum bounding rectangle of lychee fruits, thereby determining the picking points.
Jiang [39] conducts recognition and localization research on tomatoes and oranges in
greenhouse environments using a binocular stereo vision system. The Dutch Greenhouse
Technology Company [40] calculates the three-dimensional coordinates of cucumber stems
using a stereo vision system. The Institute of Agricultural and Environmental Engineer-
ing [41] utilizes a binocular stereo vision system to capture images of cucumber scenes and,
thus, calculate the three-dimensional positions of cucumbers. Shown in Figure 2G,H is a
cucumber harvesting robot.
The advantages and disadvantages of stereo vision methods are shown in Table 1.
When measuring targets, the depth of target edges may be lost, and this phenomenon
worsens as the distance decreases. Therefore, it is difﬁcult to accurately determine the
three-dimensional positions of key points placed on target edges.

Agriculture 2023, 13, 1814
6 of 31
Figure 2. (A) Tomato harvesting robot [20]. (B) Apple picking robot [21]. (C) Image processing of
Lychee clusters in the orchard. (a,c) Lychee image, (b,d) calculation of picking points [33]. (D) Recog-
nition and positioning system for harvesting robots [34]. (E) Components of harvesting robots [42].
(F) Lychee harvesting robot [33]. (G) Cucumber harvesting robot in the IMAG greenhouse [41].
(H) Cucumber harvesting robot in the IMAG greenhouse [41]. (I) Components of citrus harvesting
robot [43]. (J) Hyperspectral imaging system [44]. (K) Region image acquisition [45]. (L) Tomato
cluster harvesting robot system [46]. (M) NIR image [47]. (N) Visible spectrum image [47]. (O) Cam-
era capturing pepper images with different levels of occlusion [47]. (P) Recognition and positioning
in the orchard [48]. (Q) Illumination system layout with three lamps [49]. (R) Illumination system
layout with three lamps [49]. (S) Strawberry end effector [50].
2.1.3. Structured Camera
A structured light camera is a type of camera device that can capture surface details
and geometric shapes of objects. It consists of one or more monocular cameras and a

Agriculture 2023, 13, 1814
7 of 31
projector. Figure 1E illustrates the basic principle of obtaining depth information using
a structured light camera [5]. It projects a series of known patterns onto the scene and
performs correspondences between the projected frames and captured frames to obtain
depth information based on the degree of deformation [51,52]. Structured light camera
systems are widely used in the ﬁeld of robotics [53]. They have the ability to measure
depth with high precision and accuracy, as well as high speed [54], and can obtain the
three-dimensional coordinates of objects from the depth information in images [55].
The National Center of Research and Development for Harvesting Robots in Japan [42]
utilizes a structured light camera to determine the three-dimensional positions of picking
targets (as shown in Figure 2E). The structured light camera is equipped with two infrared
cameras, an infrared projector, and an RGB camera. It uses the two infrared cameras as a
stereo camera to provide depth information and overlays color information with depth
information using the RGB camera. The infrared projector projects image information
to improve the accuracy of depth information. However, due to sunlight interference in
outdoor environments during the daytime, most of the infrared images are offset.
Sa [1] combined the detection results from color and near-infrared images to establish
a deep fruit localization system. Shimane University [56] constructed a cherry tomato
harvesting robot equipped with a structured camera that uses three position-sensitive
devices to detect the reﬂected beams of crops. By scanning laser beams, the shape and
position of the crops are determined. Wang Z. [57] used a structured camera to measure
the size bounding box of mangoes. Rong [58] employed a structured camera to detect
the pedicels of tomatoes. South China University of Technology [46] utilized a structured
camera for tomato target recognition and localization, as shown in Figure 2L. They obtained
the optimal depth value of the harvesting point by comparing the difference between the
depth average value and the original depth value of the picking point. The success rate
of tomato harvesting point localization reached 93.83%. Nankai University [59] used a
structured camera to acquire depth information on vegetables. The Henan University
of Science and Technology [60] conducted edge recognition of leafy vegetables using a
RealSense D415 depth camera. They extracted coordinate values in pixel coordinates
and converted the pixel coordinates of the seedling edge to extremum coordinates. The
researchers noticed that the RealSense D415 depth camera had calibration errors and the
errors increased with the distance between the measured object and the depth camera. A
ZED depth camera consists of left and right lenses and has a parallel optical axis [61]. The
Graduate School of Science and Technology [62] at the University of Tsukuba used the ZED
depth camera to obtain image information of pear orchards. The right lens produced depth
images, while the left lens produced 4-channel RGB original images. When the operator’s
distance to the pears was less than 50 cm, the ZED depth camera could obtain the distance
and position of the pears through its depth function. Yang [43] used the Kinect V2 depth
camera to obtain the three-dimensional coordinates of citrus picking targets. As shown in
Figure 2I, they established the conversion relationship from the pixel coordinate system to
the camera coordinate system by calibrating the camera and obtaining the intrinsic and
extrinsic parameter matrices. By setting the top left and bottom right points of the position
bounding box as the target points, they determined the three-dimensional coordinates of
the target points. Their harvesting success rate reached 80.51%.
2.1.4. Multispectral Camera
With the development of spectral imaging technology, multispectral cameras have
been used for fruit identiﬁcation. By integrating spectral and imaging technologies in
one system, multispectral cameras can obtain monochrome images at continuous wave-
lengths [6]. Safren [44] used a hyperspectral camera to detect green apples in the visible
and near-infrared regions, as shown in Figure 2J. Okamoto et al. [45] proposed a method for
green citrus identiﬁcation using a hyperspectral camera with a spectral width between 369
and 1042 nm, as shown in Figure 2K. They achieved the correct identiﬁcation of 80–89% of
citrus fruits in the foreground of the validation set. Queensland University of Technology

Agriculture 2023, 13, 1814
8 of 31
in Australia [47] proposed a multispectral detection system for ﬁeld pepper detection. A
set of LEDs was installed behind the multispectral camera to reduce interference from
natural light. By using a threshold with near-infrared wavelengths (>900 nm) to seg-
ment the background from vegetation and a threshold with blue wavelength (447 nm)
to remove non-vegetation objects in the scene, 69.2% of ﬁeld peppers were detected at
three locations, as shown in Figure 2M–O. Bac [63] developed a robotic harvesting system
based on six-band multispectral data with a spectral width between 40 and 60 nm. The
method produced fairly accurate segmentation results in a greenhouse environment, but
the constructed obstacle map was not accurate. References [64,65] designed a greenhouse
cucumber harvesting robot based on spectral characteristics. Cucumber recognition was
conducted by utilizing the spectral differences between cucumbers and leaves, achieving
an accuracy rate of 83.3%.
2.2. Machine Vision Algorithms
Image segmentation, object detection, and 3D reconstruction are key technologies
for the recognition and localization of fruit and vegetable harvesting robots. In Figure 3,
different algorithms are shown, including branch and leaf segmentation, fruit and vegetable
image segmentation, fruit and vegetable image detection, branch and leaf detection, and
fruit and vegetable detection. These algorithms provide effective methods for image
recognition and localization of fruit and vegetable harvesting robots.
Figure 3. Purposes of different image detection algorithms: (a) branch and leaf segmentation [66];
(b) fruit and vegetable image segmentation [7]; (c) fruit and vegetable image detection [67]; (d) branch
and leaf detection [68]; (e) fruit and vegetable detection [9]; (f) ﬂowchart for obtaining the MFBB
mask [69]. (g–j) Results of stem and calyx recognition: (g) results of stem and calyx recognition at
gray level; (h) 3D surface reconstruction image with a standard spherical model image; (i) ratio image
of 3D surface reconstruction image and the standard spherical model image; (j) results of stem and
calyx recognition [70].
2.2.1. Image Segmentation Algorithms
In the process of fruit and vegetable harvesting robots, segmentation algorithms are
used to distinguish fruits and vegetables from the background and separate them. Tradi-

Agriculture 2023, 13, 1814
9 of 31
tional feature-based algorithms for segmentation include the following methods: depth
threshold segmentation, shape-based segmentation, similarity measurement, and image
binarization segmentation. Machine learning algorithms can utilize a large amount of train-
ing data for model learning and training, thereby improving the accuracy and robustness
of segmentation. As shown in Table 2, common machine learning segmentation algorithms
include semantic segmentation algorithms and instance segmentation algorithms. Figure 4
shows the application proportion of image segmentation algorithms in the context of har-
vest recognition and localization. The selection of these segmentation algorithms depends
on speciﬁc application scenarios and requirements and can be chosen and combined based
on the actual situation of fruit and vegetable harvesting robots.
Table 2. Image segmentation algorithms for harvesting recognition and localization.
Algorithms
Image Segmentation
Algorithms
Module
Cite
References
Object
Detection
Time
Detection
Accuracy
Traditional
segmentation
Depth thresholding
segmentation
HSV
thresholding
[71–73]
[74,75]
Tomato,
orange
2.34 s
83.5–93%
Similarity measure
segmentation
NCC,K-
means
[46,66,76]
[33,77,78]
Tomato,
orange,
lychee,
cucumber
0.054–7.58 s
85–98%
Image binarization
segmentation
Otsu
[79]
Grape
0.61 s
90%
Shape segmentation algorithm
Hough circle
transform
[75,80]
Banana,
apple
0.009–0.13 s
93.2%
Machine
learning
Semantic segmentation
algorithms
PSP-Net
semantic seg-
mentation,
U-Net
semantic seg-
mentation
[81,82]
Lychee,
cucumber
-
92.5–98%
Instance segmentation
algorithms
Mask
R-CNN and
YOLACT
[7,83,84]
[69,85,86]
Tomato,
strawberry,
lychee
0.04–0.154 s
89.7–95.78%
Figure 4. The proportion of image segmentation algorithm applications in harvest recognition
and localization.
(1) Depth thresholding segmentation. Depth threshold segmentation is a method
of dividing an image into different blocks by extracting key features. When the value
of a speciﬁc pixel in the image is greater than the set threshold, it is assigned to the

Agriculture 2023, 13, 1814
10 of 31
corresponding block for segmentation. The Beijing Intelligent Agriculture Equipment
Center highlights the differences between fruit clusters and the background using the R-G
color difference model and performs depth threshold segmentation on the fruit cluster
region [71], achieving an accuracy rate of 83.5%. Zhao successfully segmented tomato
fruits using an adaptive threshold segmentation algorithm, achieving a recognition rate
of 93% [72]. Chongqing University of Technology used the HSV threshold segmentation
algorithm to identify citrus targets [73]. The combination of deep threshold segmentation
algorithm and other algorithms can improve the results of recognition and localization.
Suzhou University proposed an algorithm that combines Mask R-CNN and deep threshold
segmentation for the recognition and localization of row–frame tomato picking points, and
the results showed that the deep threshold algorithm helps in ﬁltering the background,
with a successful localization rate of 87.3% and an average detection time of 2.34 s [74].
Zhejiang University of Technology performed initial segmentation on an image based on
the deep threshold algorithm [75].
(2) Similarity measure segmentation. Image segmentation methods based on similar-
ity measurement involve the process of classifying or clustering data objects by computing
the degree of similarity between two objects. As shown in Figure 3a, Zhejiang University
of Technology achieves cucumber image segmentation and detection by individually cal-
culating the normalized cross-correlation (NCC) matrix with the target image [66], with
an accuracy rate of 98%. The Suzhou Industrial Park Sub-Bureau proposed a fruit target
segmentation algorithm based on a color space reference table, which does not require
complex operations on the background and can effectively remove the background, thereby
improving the real-time operability of the picking robot [76].
The clustering segmentation algorithm is a type of image segmentation method based
on similarity measurement, which divides pixels in the image into different clusters, each
representing a particular image region or object. When combined with thresholding and
other algorithms, clustering segmentation algorithms can achieve better segmentation
results. South China University of Technology combines K-means clustering segmentation
algorithm, depth threshold segmentation algorithm, and morphological operations to
obtain the image coordinates of tomato cluster picking points [46]. The detection time is
0.054 s with an accuracy rate of 93.83%. The experimental results showed a signiﬁcant
reduction in noise within the region of the stem of interest after removing part of the
background using the K-means clustering segmentation algorithm. In the literature, K-
means clustering segmentation and Hough circle ﬁtting were applied to achieve image
segmentation of citrus fruits [77]. The detection time is 7.58 s with an accuracy rate of 85%.
South China Agricultural University used an improved fuzzy C-means clustering method
to segment images of lychee fruits and their stems and calculated the picking points for
lychee clusters to determine their spatial positions [33,78]. The detection time is 0.46 s with
an accuracy rate of 95.3%.
(3) Image binarization segmentation. The Otsu algorithm is a classic image binariza-
tion method that uses the grayscale histogram to determine the optimal threshold and
convert the image from grayscale space to binary space. Shandong Agricultural University
utilizes the Otsu algorithm and maximum connected domain to quickly identify and seg-
ment target grape images in two-dimensional space [79]. This method achieves fast and
effective separation of grapes and backgrounds based on Otsu, with a recognition success
rate of 90.0% and a detection time of 0.061 s.
(4) Shape segmentation algorithm. Shape segmentation refers to the use of speciﬁc
shapes to segment meaningful regions and extract features of the targets. South China
Agricultural University successfully segmented the contour of banana stalks through edge
detection algorithms [80]. The detection time is 0.009 s with an accuracy rate of 93.2%. The
Zhejiang University of Technology and Washington State University use the Hough circle
transform method to identify apples, as it can better recognize all visible apples [75]. The
detection time ranges from 0.025 to 0.13 s, with an error rate of less than 4%. However,
traditional image segmentation algorithms are sensitive to lighting changes in natural

Agriculture 2023, 13, 1814
11 of 31
environments, making it difﬁcult to accurately extract information about obstructed fruits
and branches.
(5) Semantic segmentation algorithms. Semantic segmentation algorithms are ma-
chine learning algorithms that associate each pixel in the image with labels or categories to
identify sets of pixels of different categories. Jilin University employs the PSP-Net semantic
segmentation model to perform semantic segmentation of the main trunk ROI image,
extract the centerline of the lychee trunk, and obtain the pixel coordinates of the picking
points in the ROI image to determine the global coordinates of the picking points in the
camera coordinate system [81]. The accuracy rate of this method is 98%. Combining seman-
tic segmentation algorithms with other algorithms can achieve better segmentation results.
Nanjing Agricultural University proposes a mature cucumber automatic segmentation and
recognition method combining YOLOv3 and U-Net semantic segmentation networks. This
algorithm uses an improved U-Net model for pixel-level segmentation of cucumbers and
performs secondary detection using YOLOv3, yielding accurate localization results [82].
The accuracy rate of this method is 92.5%.
(6) Instance segmentation algorithms. Instance segmentation not only classiﬁes pix-
els but also classiﬁes each object, thus enabling the simultaneous recognition of multiple
objects. In the identiﬁcation and positioning of fruit and vegetable picking, the main in-
stance segmentation algorithms used are Mask R-CNN and YOLACT. Northwestern A&F
University proposed an improved Mask R-CNN algorithm for tomato recognition [7], with
a processing time of 0.04 s per image. The accuracy rate of this method is 95.67%. As shown
in Figure 3b, detection is performed using YOLACT, Mask R-CNN, and the improved Mask
R-CNN, with the improved Mask R-CNN producing more accurate detection results.
Beijing Intelligent Agricultural Equipment Center proposed a tomato plant main stem
segmentation model based on Mask R-CNN [83,84]. The accuracy rate of this method is
93%. It locates the centerline of the main stem based on the recognized mask features and
then calculates the image coordinates of the harvesting points by offsetting along the lateral
branches from the intersection points of the centerline. The University of Lincoln in the UK
proposed a Mask R-CNN segmentation detection algorithm with critical point detection
capability, which is used to estimate the key harvesting points of strawberries [85]. Yu
Y achieved three-dimensional positioning of strawberry harvesting points by extracting
the shape and edge features from the mask images generated by Mask R-CNN [86]. The
accuracy rate of this method is 95.78%. South China Agricultural University proposed a
method for main fruit branch detection and harvesting point localization of lychees based
on YOLACT [69]. The detection time is 0.154 s with an accuracy rate of 89.7%. As shown in
Figure 3f, this method utilizes the instance segmentation model YOLACT to obtain clusters
and masks of the main fruit branches in the lychee images and selects the midpoint as the
harvesting point. At the same time, it uses skeleton extraction and least squares ﬁtting to
obtain the main axis of the lychee’s main fruit branch mask, thereby obtaining the angle of
the lychee’s main fruit branch as a reference for the robot’s harvesting posture. The use
of machine-learning-based image segmentation algorithms allows for the separation of
targets and backgrounds, enabling robots to more accurately recognize and locate crops. By
automatically learning rules from data, the crop recognition and localization capabilities of
robots are improved.
2.2.2. Object Detection Algorithm
The object detection algorithm is a key algorithm in the recognition and localization
work of fruit and vegetable harvesting robots. Researchers have conducted extensive
research on the stability, real-time performance, and accuracy of object detection algorithms.
Among them, the YOLO object detection model has the characteristics of fast detection
speed, small model size, and easy deployment. Figure 5 shows the commonly used
YOLOv7 model structure, while the proportion of YOLO model optimization methods
applied in harvest recognition and localization is depicted in Figure 6. In order to improve
the performance of the algorithm, researchers have taken some optimization measures, as

Agriculture 2023, 13, 1814
12 of 31
shown in Table 3, such as adding residual modules (ResNet), changing or replacing the
backbone feature extraction network, combining the K-means clustering algorithm, adding
attention mechanism modules, improving activation functions, etc.
Figure 5. YOLO Model.
Table 3. YOLO model optimization algorithm.
Speciﬁc Methods
Cite References
Object
Detection Time
Detection
Accuracy
Introducing residual modules
ResNet
[67,87]
Tomato, lychee
0.017–0.093 s
94.44–97.07%
Modifying or replacing the
backbone feature extraction
network
[8,68,88–91]
Citrus, tea tooth, cherry,
apple,
green peach
0.01–0.063 s
86.57–97.8%
Applying the K-means clustering
algorithm for combining predicted
candidate boxes
[43,92–94]
Tomato, citrus, lychee,
cherry tomato
0.058 s
79–94.29%
Incorporating attention mechanism
modules
[91,92,95]
Apple, tomato
0.015–0.227 s
86.57–97.5%
Enhancing the activation function
[89,91,96,97]
Apple, tomato, lychee,
navel orange,
Emperor orange
0.467 s
94.7%
(1) Introducing residual modules ResNet. The Residual Network (ResNet) module
allows the YOLO object detection model to perform deeper processing. The idea behind
ResNet is to establish direct connections between preceding and subsequent layers to
aid gradient backpropagation [87]. Chongqing University of Posts and Telecommunica-
tions introduced residual modules based on YOLOv4 and constructed a new network that
enhances small object detection in natural environments [67]. The accuracy rate of this
method is 94.44%, with a detection time of 0.093 s. South China Agricultural University in-
corporated the residual concept into the YOLOv3 model, addressing the issue of decreased
detection accuracy due to increased network layer depth [98]. The accuracy rate of this
method is 97.07%, with a detection time of 0.017 s.
(2) Modifying or replacing the backbone feature extraction network. The role of the
backbone feature extraction network is to extract more feature information from the image
for subsequent network usage. Several studies have proposed improved backbone feature
extraction network schemes. Hunan Agricultural University [8] designed a new backbone

Agriculture 2023, 13, 1814
13 of 31
feature extraction network based on YOLOv3 for fast detection of citrus fruits in natural
environments. The accuracy rate of this method is 94.3%, with a detection time of 0.01 s.
Qingdao Agricultural University [68] combined the fast detection capability of YOLOv3
with the high-precision classiﬁcation ability of DenseNet201, enabling precise detection
of tea shoots. The accuracy rate of this method is 95.71%. DenseNet201 utilizes multiple
convolutional kernels on smaller-sized feature maps to extract rich features and mitigate
gradient vanishing problems. Shandong Agricultural University [88] replaced the YOLOv5
model with multiple LC3, DWConv, and Conv modules, reducing network parameters
while enhancing the fusion of shallow-level features, facilitating the extraction of features
from small objects. DWConv divides standard convolution into depthwise convolution
and pointwise convolution, promoting information ﬂow between channels and improving
operation speed. The accuracy rate of this method is 94.7%, with a detection time of 0.467 s.
Dalian University [89] replaced CSPDarknet53 in YOLOv4 with DenseNet to decrease
gradient vanishing, strengthen feature transmission, reduce parameter count, and achieve
the detection of cherry fruits in natural environments. Northwest A&F University [91]
replaced BottleneckCSP with BottleneckCSP-2 in YOLOv5s for accurate detection of apples
in natural environments. The accuracy rate of this method is 86.57%, with a detection time
of 0.015 s. The Shandong University of Science and Technology [90] designed a lightweight
backbone feature extraction detection network, LeanNet, that uses convolutional kernels
with different receptive ﬁelds to extract distinct perceptual information from the feature
map. It generates local saliency maps based on green peach features, effectively suppressing
irrelevant regions in the background of branches and leaves for the detection of green
peaches in natural environments. The accuracy rate of this method is 97.3%.
Figure 6. The proportion of applied YOLO model optimization methods in harvest recognition
and localization.
(3) Applying the K-means clustering algorithm for combining predicted candidate
boxes. Based on YOLOv3, the feature extraction capability of the model can be enhanced
by performing K-means clustering analysis on the predicted bounding boxes of leafy
objects [43,92]. South China Agricultural University [93] proposed a small-scale lychee
fruit detection method based on YOLOv4. This method utilizes the K-means++ algorithm
to cluster the labeled frames to determine anchor sizes suitable for lychees. The K-means++
algorithm solves the problem of the K-means algorithm being greatly affected by initial
values. The accuracy rate of this method is 79%. Guangxi University [94] proposed an
improved YOLOv3 algorithm for cherry tomato detection. This algorithm uses an improved
K-means++ clustering algorithm to calculate the scale of the anchor box, thereby extracting
more abundant semantic features of small targets and reducing the problems of information

Agriculture 2023, 13, 1814
14 of 31
loss and insufficient semantic feature extraction of small targets during network transmission
in YOLOv3. The accuracy rate of this method is 94.29%, with a detection time of 0.058 s.
(4) Incorporating attention mechanism modules. The attention mechanism module
can focus more on the pixel regions in the image that have a decisive role in classiﬁcation
while suppressing irrelevant regions. Northwest A&F University [91] added the SE module
to YOLOv5s for fast apple recognition on trees. The accuracy rate of this method is 86.57%,
with a detection time of 0.015 s. Jiangsu University [95] integrated the CBAM module
into YOLOX-Tiny to achieve fast apple detection in natural environments. The accuracy
rate of this method is 96.76%, with a detection time of 0.015 s. Shandong Agricultural
University [92] proposed the SE-YOLOv3-MobileNetV1 algorithm for tomato ripeness
detection, which achieved significant improvements in terms of speed and accuracy by
introducing the SE module. The accuracy rate of this method is 97.5%, with a detection time
of 0.227 s.
(5) Enhancing the activation function. Activation functions provide nonlinear func-
tionality in the network structure, playing an important role in network performance and
model convergence speed. Improved activation functions can enhance the detection perfor-
mance of the model. For example, Dalian University [89] replaced the activation function
with ReLU in their research on the YOLOv4 object detection model. This improvement
increased inter-layer density, improved feature propagation, and promoted feature reuse
and fusion, thereby improving detection speed. The accuracy rate of this method is 94.7%,
with a detection time of 0.467 s. In addition, other studies [91,96,97] have achieved fruit
target detection by deepening the network model and processing the dataset to identify
regions of interest.
2.2.3. A 3D Reconstruction Algorithm for Object Models
The goal of a 3D reconstruction algorithm is to convert 2D images or point cloud data
into 3D object models. The target three-dimensional reconstruction algorithms in crop
harvesting recognition and localization are shown in Table 4.
Table 4. Object three-dimensional reconstruction algorithm in crop harvesting recognition and localization.
Speciﬁc Methods
Cite References
Object
Rebuilding Accuracy
Density-based point clustering and localization
approximation method
[9]
Strawberry
74.1%
Nearest point iteration algorithm
[99]
Apple
85.49%
Delaunay triangulation method
[70]
Apple
97.5%
Three-dimensional reconstruction algorithm based
on iterative closest point (ICP)
[100]
Apples, bananas,
cabbage, pears
-
The Norwegian University of Life Sciences [9] identiﬁed harvestable strawberries by
ﬁtting the 3D point cloud to a plane. As shown in Figure 3e, they used coordinate trans-
formation, density-based clustering of base points, and position approximation methods
to locate segmented strawberries. This algorithm can accurately determine whether the
strawberries are within the safe harvest area, achieving a recognition accuracy of 74.1%.
Nanjing Agricultural University [99] proposed a fast reconstruction method for green-
house tomato plants. They used the nearest point iteration algorithm for point cloud
registration from multiple viewpoints, which has high accuracy and stability. The accuracy
rate of this method is 85.49%. Shanghai Jiao Tong University [70] utilized a multispectral
camera and a structured camera to reconstruct the upper surface of apple targets in 3D.
Figure 3g–j shows the schematic diagram of stem and calyx recognition results. The height
information of each pixel can be calculated using triangulation, providing a reference for
identifying the picking points of apple stems, with a recognition accuracy of 97.5%. Norwe-
gian University of Science and Technology, Trondheim [100], presented a more real-time
and accurate 3D reconstruction algorithm based on ICP. This method can generate 3D point
clouds with a resolution of 1 mm and achieve optimal results through 3D registration and

Agriculture 2023, 13, 1814
15 of 31
reference trajectory optimization on a linear least squares optimizer. The GPU implementa-
tion of this method is 33 times faster than the CPU, providing a reference for the recognition
and localization of fruit and vegetable harvesting robots.
3. The Challenges of Machine Vision in Recognition and Localization for Fruit and
Vegetable Harvesting Robots
Agricultural environments have distinct differences compared to industrial and urban
environments. Intelligent agriculture requires a greater number of fruit and vegetable
harvesting robots to accomplish tasks, which places higher demands on robots with au-
tonomous capabilities. Machine vision has become an indispensable component of fruit
and vegetable harvesting robots and has been a recent research focus [101,102]. However,
existing studies indicate that the recognition and localization systems of fruit and veg-
etable harvesting robots have not achieved optimal results and are inﬂuenced by various
factors. Robots working in complex environments face situations where different fruits
exhibit varying growth characteristics, overlapping growth with branches and leaves, or
growing in clusters or independently. Additionally, adverse weather conditions such as
strong winds and ﬂuctuations in lighting can also affect the accuracy of localization [33,75].
Therefore, it is not feasible to directly apply recognition and localization solutions from
industrial environments to fruit and vegetable harvesting robots, as higher precision is
required for recognition and localization. This section will brieﬂy introduce the current
status of machine vision in recognition and localization for fruit and vegetable harvesting
robots, and emphasize the signiﬁcant challenges faced.
3.1. The Current Status of Machine Vision in Recognition, Localization, and Harvesting for Fruit
and Vegetable Harvesting Robots
3.1.1. Recognition and Localization of Machine Vision in Greenhouse Environments
Compared to other agricultural applications, greenhouses have the highest level of
structure, and the growth patterns of fruits are more regular. Fruit and vegetable harvesting
robots in greenhouses primarily deal with fruits such as cherries, tomatoes, strawberries,
bell peppers, cucumbers, and cherry tomatoes, as shown in Figure 3f. Even within the
same variety, there may be subtle morphological differences among the fruits. Some
fruits have overlapping shapes, prefer to grow in clusters, and exhibit irregularities in
growth conditions.
For the interconnected growth environment of fruits and vegetables in greenhouses,
factors such as inconsistent lighting conditions, irregular backgrounds, interference from
fruits and leaves, and fruit overlapping can affect the recognition and localization perfor-
mance of fruit and vegetable harvesting robots. In highly structured greenhouses, it is
feasible to achieve the recognition and localization function of the robots by constructing
real-time or pre-built 3D maps. However, this requires a high level of understanding of the
greenhouse’s structure and crop growth status.
3.1.2. Recognition and Localization of Machine Vision in Outdoor
Greenhouse Environments
The harvesting operations in outdoor greenhouses are greatly inﬂuenced by weather
conditions. In windy environments, leaves and fruits sway with the wind, making recog-
nition and localization challenging. To address this issue, the swinging method has been
introduced [33]. Additionally, variations in lighting conditions also affect fruit and veg-
etable harvesting. Under different light intensities and angles, the texture features of
fruits and vegetables may not be distinct, their shapes are irregular, and they are spatially
scattered within the orchard. Visual sensors are typically used in top-down or bottom-up
photography modes but may result in incomplete fruit coverage in the ﬁeld of view. The
targets of fruit and vegetable harvesting robots include apples, pears, peaches, hawthorns,
kiwis, grapes, lychees, citrus fruits, bananas, lemons, bamboo shoots, and tea leaves.
Figure 2P shows the actual harvest situation of an apple picking robot in an orchard [48].
The harvesting robot in the orchard needs to identify apples that are obscured by tree

Agriculture 2023, 13, 1814
16 of 31
branches or other fruits. Due to the presence of obstructions, recognition and localization can
easily fail, and it can also lead to damage to the end effector and mechanical harvesting arm,
resulting in failed harvesting operations. Therefore, in the orchard, the apple picking robot
needs to automatically recognize apples that are grabbable and ungrabbable. Wang [103]
developed a shaking-type apple robot that moves around the bottom area of the apple
tree trunk and uses high-frequency vibrations to make apples fall onto a collection device.
However, during the process of apple dropping, collisions may occur between apples and
between apples and the tree trunk, causing severe damage to the fruits.
3.2. The Signiﬁcant Challenges Faced by Machine Vision in Recognition and Localization for Fruit
and Vegetable Harvesting Robots
Fruit and vegetable harvesting robots face challenges in terms of accuracy, speed, and
stability in complex working environments. These challenges include the precision and
stability of real-time recognition under complex background interference, the robustness of
crop recognition in different environments, the impact of fruit overlapping and obstruction
from leaves and branches on recognition and localization, as well as the reliance on prior
information. Additionally, the complex changes in the work environment bring about
uncertainties. As a result, more and more researchers have shown interest in this ﬁeld.
Figure 7 illustrates the characteristics of complex agricultural environments. Table 5 intro-
duces the challenges and solutions in recognition and localization for fruit and vegetable
harvesting robots. Figure 8E shows the research proportion of the main challenges in fruit
and vegetable picking robot recognition and localization.
Figure 7. Complex agricultural environments.

Agriculture 2023, 13, 1814
17 of 31
Table 5. Challenges and solutions in the recognition and positioning of robots for fruit and vegetable
harvesting.
Challenges in
Recognition and
Positioning
Solutions
Cite References
Object
Time
Accuracy Rate
Complex
background
Deep learning
technology
[104–109]
[110,111]
[112–114]
Orange, apple,
green apple, lime,
cucumber
0.06–0.352 s
85.49–90.75%
Based on color
features
[115–118]
Apple, tomato
0.017 s
43.9%
Limitations of
color features
[115,119–121]
[68,122,123]
Cucumber
0.346 s
89.47%
Based on spatial
relationships
[124–126]
Lychee, tomato
0.03 s
80.8%
Removing
background
interference
[118,127–129]
[130–134]
Lychee, banana
0.343–0.516 s
89.63–93.75%
Different
lighting
environments
Research in
nighttime
environments
[132,135–137]
[49,78,138,139]
Kiwi, lychee,
tomato,
green apple
0.516 s
74–96.2%
Adding light
sources
[140–142]
Apple, tomato,
green pepper
-
67.79–80.8%
Removing
shadows
[143–151]
[152–155]
-
-
83.16%
Research under
natural lighting
conditions
[63,156,157]
[11,96,158,159]
Green pepper,
lychee, green
orange, tomato
0.105–0.2 s
59.2–94.75%
Handling uneven
lighting
[49,160]
-
-
86%
Overlap
occlusion
Directly detecting
obstructed and
overlapping fruit
images
[1,86,161,162]
Strawberry
0.008 s
87–99.8%
Classifying and
recognizing
obstacles and
unobstructed fruit
[91,160,163]
Apples, citrus,
pomelo
0.015 s
91.48–94.02%
Image restoration
[160,164–166]
-
-
95.96–99.3%
Computation and
multi-sensor
detection
[167–170]
Apples, tomato,
cherry tomato
-
78.8–96.61%
Uncertainty
in harvesting
Reducing overall
vibrations
[50,171–174]
Strawberry
-
38%
Sensor interference
[175]
Strawberry
11.5 s
38.1%
Establishing a
fault-tolerant
mathematical
model
[176]
Lychee, citrus
-
78%

Agriculture 2023, 13, 1814
18 of 31
Figure 8. The research proportion of the main challenges in fruit and vegetable picking robot recogni-
tion and localization: (A) different lighting environments; (B) overlap and occlusion; (C) complex
background; (D) uncertainty in harvesting; (E) the research proportion of each challenge.
3.2.1. The Stability of Fast Recognition under Complex Background Interference
There are multiple inﬂuencing factors in the same agricultural environment. Even for
the human eye, it is difﬁcult to distinguish fruits hidden in a green background. So, how can
machines perform recognition and localization [10,177]? When the color of the fruits is very
similar to the leaves and branches, machine-vision-based fruit and vegetable harvesting
robots are prone to missing detections or confusing fruits with leaves. This often leads to a
decrease in recognition accuracy. Figure 8C shows the research quantity of various solution
methods obtained in this study under the condition of complex background interference.
(1) Deep learning technology. Deep learning techniques can achieve stable recogni-
tion in complex backgrounds [104,105]. These studies propose methods based on deep
learning techniques to detect apples and coconuts at different growth stages and adapt to
complex environments in orchards. Wen [106] proposed an improved YOLOv4 model that
achieved citrus detection in complex backgrounds by pruning unimportant channels or
layers in the network. The accuracy rate of this method is 89.23%, with a detection time
of 0.06 s. Chu [107] suppressed non-apple features by adding a suppression branch to
Mask R-CNN, which only operates when there are signiﬁcant color differences between
fruits and leaves. The accuracy rate of this method is 90.5%, with a detection time of
0.25 s. Xiong [108] proposed a method for citrus detection in complex backgrounds based
on YOLOv3, with an accuracy of 90.75%. Jia [109] and Xiong [108] combined ResNet
and DenseNet as feature extraction networks to improve the accuracy of object detection
in complex backgrounds. The literature [110] focuses on the rapid detection of citrus in
complex backgrounds. Zhang [111] introduced a bottom-up feature network on top of the
FCOS network to optimize the recognition and localization of green apples in complex
backgrounds. The accuracy rate of this method is 85.6%. Ji [112] used an SVM classiﬁer.
The accuracy rate was 89%, and it took 0.352 s. Xiong [113] employed the Faster R-CNN
model for green citrus identiﬁcation but could not guarantee real-time detection in complex

Agriculture 2023, 13, 1814
19 of 31
backgrounds. The accuracy rate of this method was 85.49%. Liu [114] utilized an improved
Mask R-CNN to identify cucumber fruits in a similar background. The accuracy rate was
89.47%, and it took 0.346 s.
(2) Based on color features. Some scholars have utilized color features to address the
challenges of recognition and localization in complex backgrounds. Liu [115] determined
the target area using color features. The accuracy rate of this method is 43.9%, with a
detection time of 0.017 s. Based on the Otsu threshold algorithm, references [116,117]
employed color features for image segmentation, thereby enhancing the recognition and
localization capabilities in complex backgrounds. Areﬁ[118] extracted ripe tomatoes by
removing the background in the color space.
(3) Limitations of color features. For green fruits and vegetables in natural environ-
ments, color features have certain limitations and instability, which leads to difﬁculties in
recognition due to background similarity [119,120]. Mature cucumbers, for example, have a
color similar to that of tree branches and leaf backgrounds, posing challenges for harvesting
robots to accurately detect cucumbers based on color features alone [115,121,122]. The
accuracy rate of this method is 89.47%, with a detection time of 0.346 s. Considering the
similarity and difﬁculty in distinguishing apples from the background based on color, Bar-
goti [123] extracted apple regions from the image and employed watershed segmentation
and circular Hough transform to identify apple targets. The accuracy rate of this method is
86.1%.
(4) Based on spatial relationships. Some scholars have solved the problem of rec-
ognizing and locating in complex backgrounds by utilizing the positional relationships.
Xiong [124] located the harvesting points based on the positional relationship between the
lychee and the stem in complex backgrounds, combined with line detection. Zhuang [125]
used the Harris corner detection method to identify the peduncle region in images of
lychees and branches and then located the harvesting points based on the positional rela-
tionship between the corner points and the centroid of the fruit. Benavides [126] located the
harvesting points based on the positional relationship between the tomato’s pose, centroid,
and peduncle. The accuracy rate of this method is 80.8%, with a detection time of 0.03 s.
(5) Removing background interference. Removing the background can also solve the
problem of recognizing and locating in complex backgrounds. Refs [118,127–131] employed
traditional thresholding methods to remove the image background, but ﬁxed thresholds
cannot adapt to changes in illumination, making it ineffective for segmenting pixels with
similar colors to the fruit and background. Xiong [132] used an improved fuzzy clustering
algorithm to remove the background from lychee cluster images. The accuracy rate of this
method is 93.75%, with a detection time of 0.516 s. Wang [133] employed a natural statistical
visual attention model to remove the background. The accuracy rate of this method is
89.63%, with a detection time of 0.343 s. Fu [134] eliminated part of the background in the
HSV space and combined support vector machines with local binary pattern features and a
histogram of banana-oriented gradient features to locate the banana region. The accuracy
rate of this method is 91.6%.
3.2.2. Identifying Stability under Different Lighting Conditions for the Same Crop
The same crop exhibits different shapes and texture features under different lighting
conditions, which can affect its recognition and localization. In order to achieve all-weather
harvesting operations, researchers have conducted studies on the recognition and localiza-
tion of harvesting robots under nighttime environments [140,178]. Compared to natural
light environments, nighttime environments can avoid changes in factors such as natural
light angles and shadows [132]. Figure 8A shows the research quantity of various solution
methods obtained in this study under different lighting conditions.
(1) Research in nighttime environments. Xiong [78] designed a system for locating
mature lychee picking points in nighttime natural environments. Fu [138] conducted recog-
nition research on kiwifruits in nighttime environments, achieving an accuracy rate of
88.3% by recognizing kiwifruit images in the R-G color space. Liang [49] used the YOLOv3

Agriculture 2023, 13, 1814
20 of 31
model for lychee fruit detection in nighttime natural environments but with lower accuracy.
Ronneberger [139] utilized the U-Net network for the segmentation of lychee main stems in
ROI images. Xiong [132] removed the background of nighttime images using a fuzzy clus-
tering algorithm and then used the Otsu algorithm to segment the fruits. The accuracy rate
of this method is 93.75%, with a detection time of 0.516 s. He [135] collected 2000 nighttime
tomato images as training samples and utilized an improved YOLOv5 model for rapid
recognition of tomatoes and normal operation of greenhouse nighttime harvesting robots.
The accuracy rate of this method is 96.2%. References [136,137] combined color images
with thermal images to identify green apples in nighttime environments. The accuracy
rate of this method is 74%. However, thermal imaging methods have lower accuracy in
nighttime recognition and cannot meet the requirements of all-weather operation for fruit
and vegetable harvesting robots.
(2) Adding light sources. Some scholars have addressed the recognition and localiza-
tion issues in nighttime environments by adding additional light sources to create natural
lighting conditions. Zhao [140] used two incandescent lamps as illumination sources to
minimize light interference from different angles and corrected the high-reﬂection areas
on the surface of apples to obtain segmentation results through secondary segmentation.
However, due to uneven lighting and other factors, complete and accurate identiﬁcation of
apples cannot be guaranteed. Liu [141] utilized a vision system with incandescent lamps to
acquire apple images at night, applied two back-propagation neural networks for apple
fruit recognition, and improved the detection results, effectively enhancing the accuracy of
nighttime detection. As shown in Figure 2Q,R, Liang [49] employed a lighting system with
a three-lamp layout to capture nighttime tomato plant images in natural environments, and
used a pulse-coupled neural network with information entropy gradient for segmentation,
achieving an accuracy of 67.79%. However, this method faces challenges in adapting
to lighting changes and robustness. Oka [142] utilized differences in light reﬂection on
the surfaces of fruits and leaves to identify bell peppers in a greenhouse equipped with
LED lights, using intensity, saturation, and chromaticity thresholds, but its applicability is
limited and mainly suitable for weak lighting conditions. The accuracy rate of this method
is 80.8%. Liu [141] designed a segmentation experiment for nighttime apple images, but
signiﬁcant errors could arise in the presence of many shadows at night.
(3) Removing shadows. Some scholars have conducted research on shadow removal,
which involves two basic stages: (a) foreground object recognition and shadow area detec-
tion; (b) shadow removal from the image [143]. Manual labeling of shadow areas [144,145]
is not suitable for shadow detection of fruits and vegetables in the natural environment
of harvesting robots. Xiong [143] used the superpixel segmentation method to determine
whether the orchard image was in the shadow area and performed shadow removal using
Finlayson’s two-dimensional integral algorithm to obtain the image after shadow removal.
The accuracy rate of this method is 83.16%. Liu [146] identiﬁed pixels that met the thresh-
old condition as the difference seed points between shadow and non-shadow areas, thus
detecting complete shadow areas. Qu [148] proposed a color intrinsic image decomposition
method based on orthogonal projection, which effectively addresses the problem of local
shadows. Other methods for shadow removal can be found in references [147,149–155].
(4) Research under natural lighting conditions. In natural lighting conditions, many
scholars have conducted extensive research. Bac [63] designed a pepper recognition method
that uses a hyperspectral camera to capture plant features. However, due to the variability
of natural light and the differences in lighting angles between plants, the accuracy is
only 59%. Guo [156] proposed a lychee image recognition method speciﬁcally for lychee
fruits and their mother branches in natural lighting environments. The accuracy rate of
this method is 91.67%. Xiong [157] used Retinex image enhancement and H-component
rotation to segment lychees under natural lighting conditions. Peng [158] presented a
lychee recognition method based on the bivariate Otsu algorithm under natural lighting
conditions. The accuracy rate of this method is 94.75%, with a detection time of 0.2 s.
Zhao [96] utilized an improved YOLOv3 algorithm for detection in different lighting

Agriculture 2023, 13, 1814
21 of 31
directions in natural environments. The accuracy rate of this method is 87.71%, with a
detection time of 0.105 s. Ding [159] achieved the detection of green oranges under natural
lighting using hyperspectral images, but the computational complexity is too high to
meet the real-time detection requirements of harvesting robots. Liu et al. [11] proposed
an improved DenseNet network that achieved an accuracy of 91.26% in detecting ripe
tomatoes under natural lighting interference.
(5) Handling uneven lighting. Uneven lighting in natural environments can affect
the accurate visual positioning of harvesting robots [49]. To improve the robot’s perception
ability in three-dimensional space, Zhuang [160] employed a block-based local homomor-
phic ﬁltering algorithm to eliminate the inﬂuence of uneven lighting distribution. The
accuracy rate of this method is 86%.
3.2.3. The Dependence of Recognition and Localization Functions on Prior Information in
the Case of Overlapping Fruits and Occluded Leaves and Branches
Regarding the positional relationship between fruits and obstacles in fruit harvesting
robots, four types of occlusion can be deﬁned: fruit occluded by branches, fruit occluded
by leaves, overlapping fruits, and normal unoccluded fruits. In the case of occlusion, shape
deﬁciency is prone to occur in fruit detection, and the model detection relies more on
prior information. Currently, there are four main methods for detecting occluded fruits.
Firstly, directly detecting images of occluded and overlapping fruits. Secondly, performing
classiﬁcation recognition of obstacles and unoccluded fruits [12]. Thirdly, conducting image
restoration by repairing occluded fruits before recognition. This method selects the deleted
objects and ﬁlls the deleted regions based on the edge information of the objects, and
the detected positions are only the positions of the restored fruits in the image. Lastly, it
detects occluded and overlapping fruits through calculation and multiple sensors. Figure
8B shows the research quantity of various solution methods obtained in this study under
fruit occlusion conditions.
(1) Directly detecting obstructed and overlapping fruit images. Seyed [161] utilized
an improved convolutional neural network to detect occluded fruits and applied it in
fruit-picking robots. The accuracy rate of this method is 99.8%, with a detection time of
0.008 s. However, this method fails to effectively recognize fruits with larger occlusion
areas or lower recognition rates. Inkyu Sa [1] proposed a new multimodal Faster R-CNN
model for recognizing occluded fruits, achieving higher F1 scores. However, the network
structure of this model is overly complex, occupying large memory and runtime. Yan [91]
successfully identiﬁed overlapping strawberry image regions by transferring the Mask
R-CNN model, with a segmentation accuracy of 89.5%. Xu [162] proposed a method based
on a strawberry histogram of oriented gradients (HOGs) descriptors and a support vector
machine (SVM) classiﬁer, achieving an accuracy of 87%. However, this classiﬁer can only
correctly detect slightly overlapping strawberries.
(2) Classifying and recognizing obstacles and unobstructed fruit.
Yan [91] em-
ployed an improved YOLOv5 model to effectively recognize apples covered by leaves
and apples that are unharvestable due to being occluded by branches or other fruits. The ac-
curacy rate of this method is 91.48%, with a detection time of 0.015 s. Meanwhile, Yang [43]
utilized the YOLOv3 model to achieve classiﬁcation recognition of obstacles and harvested
fruits. By combining it with the Kinect V2 structured camera, depth information of citrus
fruits and obstacles was obtained, enabling accurate positioning of citrus fruits and ob-
stacles. Additionally, Lin [163] performed region extraction of grapefruit using Principal
Component Analysis, which allowed for the initial separation of overlapping grapefruits
and precise separation of overlapping grapefruit targets and locating their stems. The accu-
racy rate of this method is 94.02%. Moreover, Lv [160] proposed a method for identifying
occluded apples in natural environments using dynamic threshold segmentation for image
segmentation of occluded apples.
(3) Image restoration. A convolutional autoencoder-based image restoration approach
was proposed [179]. Firstly, the obstacles were encoded, and then the general shape of

Agriculture 2023, 13, 1814
22 of 31
the occluded fruits was determined. A comparison was made between the general shape
and the encoded part to identify the area to be repaired. Subsequently, the pixels in the
identiﬁed area were ﬁlled to achieve image restoration and recognition of the occluded
image. The accuracy rate of this method is 95.96%. Abdulla [164] presented an instance-
based image restoration algorithm with a structural similarity reaching 99.3%. However,
this method requires a large number of experimental images as source pixel libraries, which
has certain limitations. Hedjazi [165] introduced an adversarial network-based image
restoration method that optimizes the parameters of the generator and discriminator in
an end-to-end manner to enhance the realism of generated image textures. However, this
method does not offer ideal edge restoration for occluded areas. PL Arun [166] proposed
a non-linear Gaussian bilateral ﬁltering image restoration method based on Bayesian
conditional probability. Compared to the latest techniques, the detection accuracy using
Bayesian conditional probability improved by 20% while reducing computation time by
32%. However, this method lacks robustness and has poor edge information processing
capability for the occluded regions. In fruit detection methods using image restoration, there
are still many issues, such as unclear edges in the repaired areas and poor image quality in
the restoration. If the images in the dataset are highly similar, the loss of information in the
network can lead to degradation of the output results in the compression phase.
(4) Computation and multi-sensor detection. Lv [167] calculated the distance of each
fruit in the connected region and extracted valid peaks from a smooth curve to determine
the shape of overlapping apples based on the number of peaks. Tian [168] used depth
images and corresponding RGB information to locate the center and radius of apples, ﬁtting
the target regions accordingly. This method addresses the issue of overlapping fruits but
has poor robustness in complex environments. The accuracy rate of this method is 96.61%.
Liang [169] calculated the position of the stem based on the relationship between tomato
clusters and stems, taking the corner between the ﬁrst fruit on the tomato cluster and the
main stem as the picking point. The accuracy rate of this method is 90%. Yan [180] achieved
recognition of occluded small tomatoes using hue and curvature. The method detects red
areas in the image, extracts the contours of small tomatoes, and calculates the curvature
for target recognition. However, this method is greatly affected by lighting conditions and
achieves a recognition rate of only 78.8%. Lin [170] proposed a method to solve occlusion
problems by capturing images using multiple cameras, successfully capturing objects in
occluded areas.
3.2.4. Uncertainty in Fruit Picking Due to Complex Work Environments
Fruit and vegetable picking robots encounter various situations during picking opera-
tions in natural environments, such as repeated picking behavior for hard-to-pick target
fruits and redundant picking behavior caused by incorrect identiﬁcation. Picking robot
systems can only compensate for the original errors caused by visual hardware, and it is
difﬁcult to compensate for unknown random errors. The visual fault tolerance rate is low.
Figure 8D shows the research quantity of various solution methods obtained in this study
under harvest uncertainty conditions.
(1) Reducing overall vibrations. Some picking robots experience overall vibrations
during their work process, leading to identiﬁcation and positioning failures [171,172], and
lens distortion causing inaccurate image imaging. Shiigi [173] developed a three-armed
picking robot with a suction gripper as the end effector. After ﬁxing the fruit with the
suction device, the fruit stalk is grasped with two ﬁngers and then cut on both sides
according to the tilt angle. However, the ﬁnger grasping process introduces uncertain
mechanical vibrations, which leads to incorrect identiﬁcation of the fruit stem tilt angle
by the visual system. The accuracy rate of this method is 38%. Han [50] designed an end
effector for cutting strawberry stems. As shown in Figure 2S, a monocular camera, cutting
device, and ﬁxture are installed at the end to compensate for the position changes caused
by the bending effect of the end effector. Liu [174] designed a novel end effector. When
picking strawberries, the end effector is equipped with internal sensors that can sense and

Agriculture 2023, 13, 1814
23 of 31
compensate for the positioning errors in the machine vision system, and have robustness
to the positioning errors introduced by the visual module.
(2) Sensor interference. Hayashi [175] developed a strawberry picking robot that uses
photoelectric sensors to detect the attraction device for securing the fruit and the picked
fruits. However, photoelectric sensors can have an impact on the visual system and cannot
accurately identify strawberries with ripeness greater than 80% and strawberry stems. The
success rate of a method in picking is only 38.1%, with a single picking time of 11.5 s.
(3) Establishing a fault-tolerant mathematical model. Zou [176] solved the problem
of identiﬁcation and positioning errors by establishing a fault-tolerant mathematical model
and binocular vision mechanism, thereby increasing the applicability of error tolerance.
The success rate of picking lychee and citrus using the method is 78%.
4. Conclusions
(1) Various visual sensors have different advantages and disadvantages in different
environments. Monocular cameras have limitations in obtaining depth information, such
as high complexity, long computation time, and poor stability in complex environments.
Additionally, monocular cameras cannot be used in dark or low-light conditions, and they
are sensitive to lighting conditions. When it comes to motion planning, if the information
provided by the sensor is not accurate enough, stereo vision can provide higher detection
accuracy. However, the drawback of stereo vision is that it requires high sensor calibration
accuracy, long computation time, and is easily affected by lighting conditions, thus affecting
picking efﬁciency. Although structured cameras have good positioning accuracy, in outdoor
environments, sunlight can overpower most of the infrared images, making it difﬁcult to
achieve high precision and resulting in higher costs. In comparison, multispectral cameras
are less susceptible to environmental interference, but they require a large amount of
computation for image processing, making them unsuitable for real-time picking operations.
The affordability of 3D perception systems is a major limiting factor for precise positioning.
(2) Various machine vision algorithms have their limitations. Fruit and vegetable
picking robots are subject to many uncertainties during the picking process, such as complex
backgrounds, different lighting environments, and uncertainties caused by complex work-
ing conditions. Traditional image segmentation algorithms are sensitive to lighting changes
in natural environments. In contrast, machine-vision-based segmentation algorithms can
automatically learn rules from a large amount of data and achieve better segmentation
results. Machine-learning-based segmentation algorithms have an improvement of nearly
5 percentage points in detection accuracy compared to traditional segmentation algorithms.
The improved object detection models achieve high recognition accuracy, with the highest
average detection precision and fastest detection speed. The method involving the addition
of residual module ResNet has shown good results and has been widely applied, with
detection time ranging from 0.017 to 0.093 s and detection accuracy ranging from 94.44%
to 97.07%. However, this model is inﬂuenced by various factors such as environmental
changes and the growth conditions and characteristics of fruits and vegetables. The more
factors considered by the object detection algorithm, the more complex the model structure
becomes. Three-dimensional reconstruction algorithms require extensive computation and
longer detection time, and there are signiﬁcant differences among different reconstruction
methods, with the highest reaching 97.5% and the lowest reaching 74.1%.
(3) Developing advanced image processing algorithms to accurately identify and
locate fruits in complex environments remains a challenge. In recent years, various
visual sensors have drawn increasing attention from researchers. The core application
of these sensors lies in how to utilize the collected data. However, there is still a lack of
datasets considering the different growth stages of fruits and the individual differences
between them. Therefore, from the perspective of raw image data, expanding the dataset
of collected fruit and vegetable images or extracting distinctive features of fruits through
information processing techniques can be considered for objective region determination.
Decision fusion is then applied to handle complex background interference, different

Agriculture 2023, 13, 1814
24 of 31
lighting conditions, as well as overlapping fruits, branches, and trunk obstructions, thereby
reducing the data requirements and the number of machine vision algorithms. Among the
surveyed literature, studies on complex background interference account for 42.06% of the
research. Existing studies have demonstrated good detection performance in cases of both
complex background interference and target obstruction interference. The recognition and
positioning of fruits and vegetables are most affected by different lighting conditions, with
a minimum detection accuracy of 59.2%.
(4) The accuracy of target positioning and the superiority of the robotic arm end
effector and its control system have a signiﬁcant impact on the harvesting rate of fruit
and vegetable picking robots. Among the surveyed literature, the success rate of picking
ranges from 38% to 78%. The end effector can only compensate for the original errors
caused by the visual hardware. It is challenging to compensate for unknown random
errors and obtain and compensate for these error patterns. When the target fruits grow
in clusters or are obstructed by branches and other interfering objects, signiﬁcant random
errors can occur in the recognition and positioning system, leading to unstable recognition
and positioning and subsequently causing grasping failure by the end effector. This may
result in fruit damage and damage to critical components of the fruit and vegetable picking
robot. Therefore, the cooperation between machine vision and mechanical fault tolerance
has recently become a hot research topic. Traditional vision methods do not consider
mechanical or vision-related random errors. Existing systems can only compensate for the
original errors caused by visual hardware, such as inaccurate image formation caused by
camera lens distortion. It is difﬁcult to compensate for unknown random errors. In the
research on fruit and vegetable picking robots, it is necessary to explore fault tolerance
theory to achieve precise positioning of target fruits.
5. Future Prospects
Target recognition and 3D positioning of picking robots have always been hot topics in
smart agriculture research. Compared to traditional recognition and positioning methods,
deep-learning-based neural network algorithms are worth more attention. Based on the
current development status of target recognition and positioning research for machine-
vision-based picking robots, the following aspects still deserve attention:
(1) Utilize multi-sensor fusion to obtain rich information and develop more gen-
eral algorithms. Existing machine vision algorithms are trained by inputting speciﬁc
picking object images into the network model. However, the targets to be picked exist
in various environments, such as random organisms within the ﬁeld of view, and the
algorithm’s fault tolerance and stability are average. To address this issue, it is essential
to focus on using multi-sensor fusion for fruit and vegetable recognition and localization
to complement each other’s limitations. Additionally, future research should make the
algorithm more versatile and capable of deriving the ability to recognize the environmental
features based on the objects being picked.
(2) Enhancing the feature extraction capability of the model through the collection
of sample images from different stages. Existing machine vision algorithms require a
large number of sample training sets. However, in nature, target fruits exhibit different
features at different growth stages. It is possible to collect sample images of fruits and
vegetables at various stages and use the test set for each input as the training set for the
network at the same time, in order to deepen the weight learning of the network. Extracting
more representative features can be achieved through an attention mechanism module,
which requires the network structure to have strong feature extraction capabilities.
(3) Consider reducing the complexity and cost of recognition, localization, and
picking from the perspective of horticultural operations and fruit and vegetable growth
patterns. The main reasons for large deviations between the actual positioning of target
fruits and the results obtained are identiﬁcation errors, mechanical vibrations, and inac-
curate distance measurements from visual sensors. In the future, efforts can be made
in horticultural operations, including tree pruning, pollination, and thinning. By taking

Agriculture 2023, 13, 1814
25 of 31
advantage of the regularity of fruit and vegetable growth, it may become a breakthrough
for improving the accuracy of localization through machine vision. By improving the
visibility of target fruits and reducing obstructions and clustering, the target fruits can be
presented more clearly to the sensors. This will reduce a signiﬁcant amount of noise and
easily obtain precise three-dimensional positioning of the targets. In addition, when the
targets are clearly visible, the end effector of the picking robot can tolerate more positional
deviations, fundamentally reducing the complexity and cost of the three-dimensional
positioning system.
(4) The increase in large models has opened up new possibilities for fruit and veg-
etable picking robots. Large model computations require high-performance hardware
processors, and it is not feasible to directly install large processors on picking robots for
practical picking operations. In the future, it will be possible to access cloud-based large
model algorithms through API interfaces and utilize the intelligence of large models for
continuous picking and positioning decisions. At the same time, the optimization of large
model algorithms can be carried out in combination with visual sensors to continuously lo-
cate picking points and determine picking paths in different stages and distances, enabling
fruit and vegetable picking operations in various scenarios.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, R.N. and M.J.; methodology, G.H.; investigation, H.C.;
resources, G.H. and M.J.; data curation, M.J.; writing—original draft preparation, G.H.; writing—
review and editing, G.H.; visualization, G.H. and R.N.; project administration, G.H. All authors have
read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This work was supported by the following funds: the Strategic Priority Research Program
of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (grant no.: XDA28120000 and XDA28040000); the Subproject of
the National Key R&D Program (grant no.: 2022YFD2001404-01); the Natural Science Foundation of
Shandong Province (grant no.: ZR2021MF094); the Key R&D Plan of Shandong Province (grant no.:
2020CXGC010804); the Central Leading Local Science and Technology Development Special Fund
Project (grant no.: YDZX2021122); and the Science & Technology Speciﬁc Projects in Agricultural
High-tech Industrial Demonstration Area of the Yellow River Delta (grant no.: 2022SZX11).
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
References
1.
Sa, I.; Zong, G.; Feras, D.; Ben, U.; Tristan, P.; Chris, M.C. Deepfruits: A Fruit Detection System Using Deep Neural Networks .
Sensors 2016, 16, 1222. [CrossRef]
2.
Zheng, T.; Jiang, M.; Feng, M. Research overview of visual-based target recognition and localization methods for harvesting
robots. J. Instrum. Instrum. 2021, 42, 28–51.
3.
Ruan, S.J.; Chen, J.H. Title of presentation. In Proceedings of the 2022 IEEE 4th Global Conference on Life Sciences and
Technologies, Osaka, Japan, 7–9 March 2022; pp. 431–432.
4.
Luo, G. Depth Perception and 3D Reconstruction Based on Binocular Stereo Vision. Ph.D. Thesis, Central South University,
Changsha, China, 2012; pp. 6–15.
5.
Anwar, I.; Lee, S. High performance stand-alone structured light 3D camera for smart manipulators. In Proceedings of the 2017
14th International Conference on Ubiquitous Robots and Ambient Intelligence (URAI), Jeju, Republic of Korea, 28 June–1 July
2017; pp. 192–195.
6.
Zhang, B.H.; Huang, W.Q.; Li, J.B. Principles, developments and applications of computer vision for external quality inspection
of fruits and vegetables: A review. Food Res. Int. 2014, 62, 326–343. [CrossRef]
7.
Xu, P.; Fang, N.; Liu, N. Visual recognition of cherry tomatoes in plant factory based on improved deep instance segmentation.
Comput. Electron. Agric. 2022, 197, 106991. [CrossRef]
8.
Xiao, X.; Huang, J.; Li, M. Fast recognition method for citrus under complex environments based on improved YOLOv3. J. Eng.
2022, 2022, 148–159. [CrossRef]
9.
Ge, Y.; Xiong, Y.; Tenorio, G.L. Fruit localization and environment perception for strawberry harvesting robots. IEEE Access 2019,
7, 147642–147652. [CrossRef]
10.
Liu, J. Research progress analysis of robotic harvesting technologies in greenhouse. Trans. Chin. Soc. Agric. Mach. 2017, 48, 1–18.

Agriculture 2023, 13, 1814
26 of 31
11.
Liu, J.; Pi, J.; Xia, L. A novel and high precision tomato maturity recognition algorithm based on multi-level deep residual network.
Multimed. Tools Appl. 2019, 79, 9403–9417. [CrossRef]
12.
Chen, J.; Zhang, H.; Wang, Z. An image restoration and detection method for picking robot based on convolutional auto-encoder.
Comput. Electron. Agric. 2022, 196, 106896. [CrossRef]
13.
Mehta, S.S., Ton, C.; Asundi, S.; Burks, T.F. Multiple Camera Fruit Localization Using a Particle Filter. Comput. Electron. Agric.
2017, 142, 139–154. [CrossRef]
14.
Hua, X.; Li, H.; Zeng, J.; Han, C.; Chen, T.; Tang, L.; Luo, Y. A review of target recognition technology for fruit picking robots:
From digital image processing to deep learning. Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 4160. [CrossRef]
15.
Xiao, F.; Wang, H.; Xu, Y.; Zhang, R. Fruit detection and recognition based on deep learning for automatic harvesting: An
overview and review. Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625. [CrossRef]
16.
Li, Y.; Feng, Q.; Li, T.; Xie, F.; Liu, C.; Xiong, Z. Advance of target visual information acquisition technology for fresh fruit robotic
harvesting: A review. Agronomy 2022, 12, 1336. [CrossRef]
17.
Wang, Z.; Xun, Y.; Wang, Y.; Yang, Q. Review of smart robots for fruit and vegetable picking in agriculture. Int. J. Agric. Biol. Eng.
2022, 15, 33–54.
18.
Tang, Y.; Chen, M.; Wang, C. Recognition and localization methods for vision-based fruit picking robots: A review. Front. Plant
Sci. 2020, 11, 510. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
19.
Jiang, P.; Luo, L.; Zhang, B. Research on Target Localization and Recognition Based on Binocular Vision and Deep Learning with
FPGA. J. Phys. Conf. Ser. 2022, 2284, 12009. [CrossRef]
20.
Feng, Q.C.; Zou, W.; Fan, P.F.; Zhang, C.F.; Wang, X. Design and Test of Robotic Harvesting System for Cherry Tomato. Int. J.
Agric. Biol. Eng. 2018, 11, 96–100. [CrossRef]
21.
Baeten, J.; Kevin, D.; Sven B.; Wim, B.; Eric, C. Autonomous Fruit Picking Machine: A Robotic Apple Harvester. Field Serv. Robot.
2008, 42, 531–539.
22.
Bulanon, D.M.; Kataoka, T.; Ota, Y.A. Machine Vision System for the Apple Harvesting Robot. Agric. Eng. Int. Cigr. Ejournal 2001,
3, 1–11.
23.
Zhao, J.; Tow, J.; Katupitiya, J. On-tree Fruit Recognition Using Texture Properties and Color Data. In Proceedings of the 2005
IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, Edmonton, AB, Canada, 2–6 August 2005; pp. 263–268.
24.
Mehta, S.S.; Burks, T.F. Vision-based Control of Robotic Manipulator for Citrus Harvesting. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2014, 102,
146–158. [CrossRef]
25.
Meng, L.; Yuan, L.; Qing, L.W. A Calibration Method for Mobile Omnidirectional Vision Based on Structured Light. IEEE Sens. J.
2021, 21, 11451–1460. [CrossRef]
26.
Cao, K.; Liu, R.; Wang, Z.; Peng, K.; Zhang, J.; Zheng, J.; Teng, Z.; Yang, K.; Stiefelhagen, R. Tightly-coupled liDAR-visual SLAM
based on geometric features for mobile agents. arXiv 2023, arXiv:2307.07763.
27.
Shu, C.F.; Luo, Y.T. Multi-modal feature constraint based tightly coupled monocular Visual-liDAR odometry and mapping. IEEE
Trans. Intell. Veh. 2023, 8, 3384–3393. [CrossRef]
28.
Zhang, L.; Yu, X.; Adu-Gyamﬁ, Y.; Sun, C. Spatio-temporal fusion of LiDAR and camera data for omnidirectional depth perception.
Transp. Res. Rec. 2023, 1. [CrossRef]
29.
Cheng, X.; Qiu, S.; Zou, Z.; Pu, J.; Xue, X. Understanding depth map progressively: Adaptive distance interval separation for
monocular 3D object detection. arXiv 2023, arXiv:2306.10921.
30.
Ma, R.; Yin, Y.; Chen, J.; Chang, R. Multi-modal information fusion for liDAR-based 3D object detection framework. Multimed.
Tools Appl. 2023, 13, 1731. [CrossRef]
31.
Guo, S.; Guo, J.; Bai, C. Semi-Direct Visual Odometry Based on Monocular Depth Estimation. In Proceedings of the 2019 IEEE
International Conference on Unmanned Systems (ICUS), Beijing, China, 17–19 October 2019; pp. 720–724.
32.
Edan, Y.; Rogozin, D.; Flash, T. Robotic melon harvesting. IEEE Trans. Robot. Autom. 2000, 16, 831–834. [CrossRef]
33.
Xiong, J.; He, Z.; Lin, R.; Liu, Z.; Bu, R.; Yang, Z.; Peng, H.; Zou, X. Visual Positioning Technology of Picking Robots for Dynamic
Litchi Clusters with Disturbance . Comput. Electron. Agric. 2018, 151, 226–237. [CrossRef]
34.
Wang, H.; Mao, W.; Liu, G.; Hu, X.; Li, S. Recognition and positioning of apple harvesting robot based on visual fusion. J. Agric.
Mach. 2012, 43, 165–170.
35.
Mrovlje, J.; Vrancic, D. Distance measuring based on stereoscopic pictures. In Proceedings of the 9th International PhD Workshop
on Systems and Control, Izola, Slovenia, 1–3 October 2008.
36.
Pal, B.; Khaiyum, S.; Kumaraswamy, Y.S. 3D point cloud generation from 2D depth camera images using successive triangulation.
In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Innovative Mechanisms for Industry Applications, Bangalore, India,
19–20 May 2017; pp. 129–133.
37.
Ji, W.; Meng, X.; Qian, Z.; Xu, B.; Zhao, D. Branch Localization Method Based on the Skeleton Feature Extraction and Stereo
Matching for Apple Harvesting Robot. Int. J. Adv. Robot. Syst. 2017, 14, 172988141770527. [CrossRef]
38.
Guo, A.; Xiong, J.; Xiao, D.; Zou, X. Calculation and stereo matching of picking points for litchi using fused Harris and SIFT
algorithm. J. Agric. Mach. 2015, 46, 11–17.
39.
Jiang, H.; Peng, Y.; Ying, Y. Measurement of 3-D locations of ripe tomato by binocular stereo vision for tomato harvesting. In
Proceedings of the 2008 ASABE International Meeting, Providence, RI, USA, 29 June–2 July 2008; p. 084880.

Agriculture 2023, 13, 1814
27 of 31
40.
Van Henten, E.J.; Van Tuijl, B.A.J.; Hoogakker, G.-J.; Van Der Weerd, M.J.; Emming, J.; Kornet, J.G.; Bontsema, J. An Autonomous
Robot for De-leaﬁng Cucumber Plants Grown in a High-wire Cultivation System. Biosyst. Eng. 2006, 94, 317–323. [CrossRef]
41.
Van Henten, E.J.; Van Tuijl, B.A.J.; Hemming, J.; Kornet, J.G.; Bontsema, J.; Van Os, E.A. Field Test of an Autonomous Cucumber
Picking Robot. Biosyst. Eng. 2003, 86, 305–313. [CrossRef]
42.
Yoshida, T.; Kawahara, T.; Fukao, T. Fruit Recognition Method for a Harvesting Robot with RGB-D Cameras. Robomech. J. 2022, 9,
1–10. [CrossRef]
43.
Yang, C.; Liu, Y.; Wang, Y.; Xiong, L.; Xu, H.; Zhao, W. Research on Recognition and Positioning System for Citrus Harvesting
Robot in Natural Environment. Trans. Chin. Soc. Agric. Mach. 2019, 50, 14–22+72.
44.
Safren, Q.; Alchanatis, V.; Ostrovsky, V.; Levi, O. Detection of green apples in hyperspectral images of apple-tree foliage using
machine vision. Trans. ASABE 2008, 50, 2303–2313. [CrossRef]
45.
Okamoto, H.; Lee, W.S. Green citrus detection using hyperspectral imaging. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2010, 66, 201–208. [CrossRef]
46.
Zhang, Q.; Chen, J.; Li, B.; Xu, C. Method for identifying and locating the picking points of tomato clusters based on RGB-D
information fusion and object detection. Trans. Chin. Soc. Agric. Mach. 2021, 37, 143–152.
47.
Mccool, C.; Sa, I.; Dayoub, F. Visual detection of occluded crop: For automated harvesting. In Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE
International Conference on Robotics and Automation, Stockholm, Sweden, 16–19 May 2016.
48.
Yan, B.; Fan, P.; Lei, X. A real-time apple targets detection method for picking robot based on improved YOLOv5. Remote Sens.
2021, 13, 1619. [CrossRef]
49.
Liang, C.; Xiong, J.; Zheng, Z. A visual detection method for nighttime litchi fruits and fruiting stems . Comput. Electron. Agric.
2020, 169, 105192. [CrossRef]
50.
Han, K.S.; Kim, S.-C.; Lee, Y.-B.; Kim, S.C.; Im, D.-H.; Choi, H.-K. Strawberry harvesting robot for bench-type cultivation. Biosyst.
Eng. 2012, 37, 65–74. [CrossRef]
51.
Atif, M.; Lee, S. Adaptive Pattern Resolution for Structured Light 3D Camera System. In Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE SENSORS,
New Delhi, India, 28–31 October 2018; pp. 1–4.
52.
Weinmann, M.; Schwartz, C.; Ruiters, R.; Klein, R. A Multicamera, Multi-projector Super-Resolution Framework for Structured
Light. In Proceedings of the 2011 International Conference on 3D Imaging, Modeling, Processing, Visualization and Transmission,
Hangzhou, China, 16–19 May 2011; pp. 397–404.
53.
Lee, S.; Atif, M.; Han, K. Stand-Alone Hand-Eye 3D Camera for Smart Modular Manipulator. In Proceedings of the IEEE/RSJ
IROS Workshop on Robot Modularity, Daejeon, Republic of Korea, 9–14 October 2016.
54.
Hyun, J.S.; Chiu, G.T.-C.; Zhang, S. High-speed and high-accuracy 3D surface measurement using a mechanical projector. Opt.
Express 2018, 26, 1474–1487. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
55.
Nevatia, R. Depth measurement by motion stereo. Comput. Graph. Image Process. 1976, 5, 203–214. [CrossRef]
56.
Subrata, I.D.M.; Fujiura, T.; Nakao, S. 3-D Vision Sensor for Cherry Tomato Harvesting Robot. Jpn. Agric. Res. Q. 1997, 31,
257–264.
57.
Wang, Z.; Walsh, K.B.; Verma, B. On-tree mango fruit size estimation using RGB-D images. Sensors 2017, 17, 2738. [CrossRef]
58.
Rong, J.; Dai, G.; Wang, P. A peduncle detection method of tomato for autonomous harvesting. Complex Intell. Syst. 2021, 8,
2955–2969. [CrossRef]
59.
Zheng, B.; Sun, G.; Meng, Z.; Nan, R. Vegetable Size Measurement Based on Stereo Camera and Keypoints Detection. Sensors
2022, 22, 1617. [CrossRef]
60.
Jin, X.; Tang, L.; Li, R.; Zhao, B.; Ji, J.; Ma, Y. Edge Recognition and Reduced Transplantation Loss of Leafy Vegetable Seedlings
with Intel RealsSense D415 Depth Camera. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2022, 198, 107030. [CrossRef]
61.
Tran, T.M. A Study on Determination of Simple Objects Volume Using ZED Stereo Camera Based on 3D-Points and Segmentation
Images. Int. J. Emerg. Trends Eng. Res. 2020, 8, 1990–1995. [CrossRef]
62.
Pan, S.; Ahamed, T. Pear Recognition in an Orchard from 3D Stereo Camera Datasets to Develop a Fruit Picking Mechanism
Using Mask R-CNN. Sensors 2022, 22, 4187. [CrossRef]
63.
Bac, C.W.; Hemming, J.; Van Henten, E.J. Robust pixel-based classiﬁcation of obstacles for robotic harvesting of sweet-pepper.
Comput. Electron. Agric. 2013, 96, 148–162. [CrossRef]
64.
Yuan, T.; Li, W.; Feng, Q. Spectral imaging for greenhouse cucumber fruit detection based on binocular stereovision. In
Proceedings of the 2010 ASABE International Meeting, Pittsburgh, PA, USA, 20–23 June 2010.
65.
Ji, C.; Feng, Q.; Yuan, T. Development and performance analysis of greenhouse cucumber harvesting robot system. Robot 2011, 6,
726–730.
66.
Bao, G.; Cai, S.; Qi, L. Multi-template matching algorithm for cucumber recognition in natural environment. Comput. Electron.
Agric. 2016,127, 754–762. [CrossRef]
67.
Zheng, T. Research on tomato detection in natural environment based on RC-YOLOv4. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2022, 198, 107029.
[CrossRef]
68.
Xu, W.; Zhao, L.; Li, J. Detection and classiﬁcation of tea buds based on deep learning. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2022, 192, 106547.
[CrossRef]
69.
Zhong, Z.; Xiong, J.; Zheng, Z. A method for litchi picking points calculation in natural environment based on main fruit bearing
branch detection. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2021, 189, 106398. [CrossRef]

Agriculture 2023, 13, 1814
28 of 31
70.
Zhang, B.; Huang, W.; Wang, C. Computer vision recognition of stem and calyx in apples using near-infrared linear-array
structured light and 3D reconstruction. Biosyst. Eng. 2015, 139, 25–34. [CrossRef]
71.
Feng, Q.; Zhao, C.; Wang, X. Measurement method for targeted measurement of cherry tomato fruit clusters based on visual
servoing. Trans. Chin. Soc. Agric. Mach. 2015, 31, 206–212.
72.
Zhao, Y.; Gong, L.; Huang, Y.; Liu, C. Robust tomato recognition for robotic harvesting using feature images fusion. Sensors 2016,
16, 173. [CrossRef]
73.
Li, Y. Research on Target Recognition and Positioning Technology of Citrus Harvesting Robot Based on Binocular Vision. Master’s
Thesis, Chongqing University of Technology, Chongqing, China, 2017.
74.
Yan, J.; Wang, P.; Wang, T. Identiﬁcation and Localization of Optimal Picking Point for Truss Tomato Based on Mask R-CNN and
Depth Threshold Segmentation. In Proceedings of the 2021 IEEE 11th Annual International Conference on CYBER Technology in
Automation, Control, and Intelligent Systems (CYBER), Jiaxing, China, 27–31 May 2021; pp. 899–903.
75.
Yang, Q.; Chen, C.; Dai, J. Tracking and recognition algorithm for a robot harvesting oscillating apples . Int. J. Agric. Biol. Eng.
2020, 13, 163–170. [CrossRef]
76.
Zhang, J. Target extraction of fruit picking robot vision system. J. Phys. Conf. Ser. 2019, 1423, 012061. [CrossRef]
77.
Xiong, J.; Zou, X.; Peng, H. Real-time recognition and picking point determination technology for perturbed citrus harvesting.
Trans. Chin. Soc. Agric. Mach. 2014,45, 38–43.
78.
Xiong, J.; Lin, R.; Liu, Z. Recognition technology of litchi picking robot in natural environment at night. Trans. Chin. Soc. Agric.
Mach. 2017, 48, 28–34.
79.
Zhu, Y.; Zhang, T.; Liu, L. Fast Location of Table Grapes Picking Point Based on Infrared Tube. Inventions 2022 7, 27. [CrossRef]
80.
Wu, F.; Duan, J.; Ai, P. Rachis detection and three-dimensional localization of cut-off point for vision-based banana robot. Comput.
Electron. Agric. 2022, 198, 107079. [CrossRef]
81.
Silwal, A.; Karkee, M.; Zhang, Q. A hierarchical approach to apple identiﬁcation for robotic harvesting. Trans. ASABE 2016, 59,
1079–1086.
82.
Qi, X.; Dong, J.; Lan, Y. Method for Identifying Litchi Picking Position Based on YOLOv5 and PSPNet. Remote Sens. 2022, 14, 2004.
[CrossRef]
83.
Feng, Q.; Cheng, W.; Li, Y.; Wang, B.; Chen, L. Localization method of tomato plant pruning points based on Mask R-CNN. Trans.
Chin. Soc. Agric. Eng. 2022, 38, 128–135.
84.
Feng, Q.; Cheng, W.; Zhang, W. Visual Tracking Method of Tomato Plant Main-Stems for Robotic Harvesting. In Proceedings of
the 2021 IEEE 11th Annual International Conference on CYBER Technology in Automation, Control, and Intelligent Systems
(CYBER), Jiaxing, China, 27–31 July 2021; pp. 886–890.
85.
Tafuro, A.; Adewumi, A.; Parsa, S. Strawberry picking point localization, ripeness, and weight estimation. In Proceedings of the
2022 International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), Philadelphia, PA, USA, 23–27 May 2022; pp. 2295–2302.
86.
Yu, Y.; Zhang, K.; Yang, L.; Zhang, D. Fruit detection for strawberry harvesting robot in non-structural environment based on
Mask R-CNN. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2019, 163, 104846. [CrossRef]
87.
Zhang, X.; Fu, L.; Karkee, M.; Whiting, M.D.; Zhang, Q. Canopy segmentation using ResNet for mechanical harvesting of apples.
IFAC-PapersOnLine 2019, 52, 300–305. [CrossRef]
88.
Zhang, P.; Liu, X.; Yuan, J. YOLO5-spear: A robust and real-time spear tips locator by improving image augmentation and
lightweight network for selective harvesting robot of white asparagus. Biosyst. Eng. 2022, 218, 43–61. [CrossRef]
89.
Gai, R.; Chen, N.; Yuan, H. A detection algorithm for cherry fruits based on the improved YOLO-v4 model. Neural Comput. Appl.
2023 , 35, 13895–13906. [CrossRef]
90.
Cui, Z.; Sun, H.M.; Yu, J.T. Fast detection method of green peach for application of picking robot. Appl. Intell. 2022, 52, 1718–1739.
[CrossRef]
91.
Peng, H.X.; Huang, B.; Shao, Y.Y. Generalized improved SSD model for multi-class fruit picking target recognition in natural
environment. Trans. Agric. Eng. 2018, 34 , 155–162.
92.
Su, F.; Zhao, Y.; Wang, G. Tomato Maturity Classiﬁcation Based on SE-YOLOv3-MobileNetV1 Network under Nature Greenhouse
Environment. Agronomy 2022, 12, 1638. [CrossRef]
93.
Wu, J.; Zhang, S.; Zou, T. A Dense Litchi Target Recognition Algorithm for Large Scenes. Math. Prob. Eng. 2022, 2022, 4648105.
[CrossRef]
94.
Chen, J.; Wang, Z.; Wu, J. An improved Yolov3 based on dual path network for cherry tomatoes detection. J. Food Process Eng.
2021, 44, 13803. [CrossRef]
95.
Ji, W.; Pan, Y.; Xu, B. A real-time Apple targets detection method for picking robot based on ShufﬂenetV2-YOLOX. Agriculture
2022, 12, 856. [CrossRef]
96.
Zhao, D.A.; Wu, R.D.; Liu, X.Y.; Zhao, Y.Y. Localization of Apple Picking Under Complex Background Based on YOLO Deep
Convolutional Neural Network. Trans. Chin. Soc. Agric. Eng. 2019, 35, 164–173.
97.
Zhang, Q.; Chen, J.M.; Li, B.; Xu, C. Tomato cluster picking point identiﬁcation based on RGB-D fusion and object detection.
Trans. Chin. Soc. Agric. Eng. 2021, 37, 143–152.
98.
Peng, H.; Xue, C.; Shao, Y. Litchi detection in the ﬁeld using an improved YOLOv3 model. Int. J. Agric. Biol. Eng. 2022, 15,
211–220. [CrossRef]

Agriculture 2023, 13, 1814
29 of 31
99.
Sun, G.; Wang, X. Three-dimensional point cloud reconstruction and morphology measurement method for greenhouse plants
based on the Kinect sensor self-calibration. Agronomy 2019, 9, 596. [CrossRef]
100. Isachsen, U.J.; Theoharis, T.; Misimi, E. Fast and accurate GPU-accelerated, high-resolution 3D registration for the robotic 3D
reconstruction of compliant food objects. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2021, 180, 105929. [CrossRef]
101. Xu, Z.F.; Jia, R.S.; Liu, Y.B. Fast method of detecting tomatoes in a complex scene for picking robots. IEEE Access 2020, 8,
55289–55299. [CrossRef]
102. Rong, D.; Wang, H.; Ying, Y.; Zhang, Z.; Zhang, Y. Peach variety detection using VIS-NIR spectroscopy and deep learning. Comput.
Electron. Agric. 2020, 175, 105553. [CrossRef]
103. Wang, C.; Wan, Y.; Wang, G. Development of control system for a picking robot used in plate ﬂame cutting. Res. Explor. Lab. 2017,
36, 41–44.
104. Tian, Y.N.; Yang, G.D.; Wang, Z.; Wang, H.,; Li, E.; Liang, Z. Apple detection during different growth stages in orchards using the
improved YOLO-V3 model. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2019, 157, 417–426. [CrossRef]
105. Parvathi, S.; Selvi, S.T. Detection of maturity stages of coconuts in complex background using Faster R-CNN model. Biosyst. Eng.
2021, 202, 119–132. [CrossRef]
106. Changhong, W.; Qiang, L.; Xin, C. Citrus recognition based on YOLOv4 neural network. J. Physics Conf. Ser. 2021, 1820, 012163.
107. Chu, P.Y.; Li, Z.J.; Lammers, K.; Lu, R.F.; Liu, X.M. Deep learning-based apple detection using a suppression mask R-CNN. Pattern
Recognit. Lett. 2021, 147, 206–211. [CrossRef]
108. Xiong, J.; Zheng, Z.; Liang, J. Orange recognition method in night environment based on improved YOLO V3 network. J. Agric.
Mach. 2020, 51, 199–206.
109. Jia, W.; Tian, Y.; Luo, R. Detection and Segmentation of Overlapped Fruits Based on Optimized Mask R-CNN Application in
Apple Harvesting Robot. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2020, 172, 105380. [CrossRef]
110. Bi, S.; Gao, F.; Chen, J. Citrus target recognition method based on deep convolutional neural network. J. Agric. Mach. 2019, 50,
181–186.
111. Zhang, Z.; Jia, W.; Shao, W. Optimization of FCOS network for green apple detection in complex orchard environments. Spectrosc.
Spectr. Anal. 2022, 42, 647–653.
112. Ji, W.; Zhao, D.; Cheng, F. Automatic recognition vision system guided for apple harvesting robot. Comput. Electr. Eng. 2012, 38,
1186–1195. [CrossRef]
113. Xiong, J.; Liu, Z.; Tang, L.; Lin, R.; Bu, R.; Peng, H. Research on visual detection technology for green citrus in natural environment.
Trans. Chin. Soc. Agric. Mach. 2018, 49, 45–52.
114. Liu, S.; Huang, D.; Wang, Y. Learning Spatial Fusion for Single-Shot Object Detection. arXiv 2019, arXiv:1911.09516.
115. Liu, X.; Zhao, D.; Jia, W. Cucumber fruits detection in greenhouses based on instance segmentation . IEEE Access 2019, 7,
139635–139642. [CrossRef]
116. Lv, J.; Zhao, D. An algorithm for rapid tracking and recognition of target fruit for apple picking robot. Trans. Chin. Soc. Agric.
Mach. 2014, 45, 65–72.
117. Wei, X.Q.; Ji, K.; Lan, J.H. Automatic method of fruit object extraction under complex agricultural background for vision system
of fruit picking robot. Optik 2014, 125, 5684–5689. [CrossRef]
118. Areﬁ, A.; Motlagh, A.M.; Mollazade, K.; Teimourlou, R.F.J. Recognition and localization of ripen tomato based on machine vision.
Aust. J. Crop Sci. 2011, 5, 1144–1149.
119. He, Z.-L.; Xiong, J.-T.; Lin, R.; Zou, X.; Tang, L.Y.; Yang, Z.G.; Liu, Z.; Song, G. A method of green litchi recognition in natural
environment based on improved LDA classiﬁer. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2017, 140, 159–167. [CrossRef]
120. Sun, S.; Song, H.; He, D. An adaptive segmentation method combining MSRCR and mean shift algorithm with K-means correction
of green apples in natural environment. Inf. Process. Agric. 2019, 6, 200–215. [CrossRef]
121. Singh, N.; Tewari, V.K.; Biswas, P.K. Image processing algorithms for in-ﬁeld cotton boll detection in natural lighting conditions.
Artif. Intell. Agric. 2021, 5, 142–156. [CrossRef]
122. Chen, Y.; Xu, Z.; Tang, W. Identiﬁcation of various food residuals on denim based on hyperspectral imaging system and
combination optimal strategy. Artif. Intell. Agric. 2021, 5, 125–132. [CrossRef]
123. Bargoti, S.; Underwood, J.P. Image segmentation for fruit detection and yield estimation in apple orchards. J. Field Robot. 2017,
34,1039. [CrossRef]
124. Xiong, J.; Zou, X.; Chen, L. Visual positioning of a picking manipulator for perturbed litchi. Trans. Chin. Soc. Agric. Eng. 2012, 28,
36–41.
125. Zhuang, J.; Hou, C.; Tang, Y. Computer vision-based localisation of picking points for automatic litchi harvesting applications
towards natural scenarios. Biosyst. Eng. 2019, 187, 1–20. [CrossRef]
126. Benavides, M.; Cantón-Garbín, M.; Sánchez-Molina, J.A. Automatic tomato and peduncle location system based on computer
vision for use in robotized harvesting. Appl. Sci. 2020, 10, 5887. [CrossRef]
127. Lü, Q.; Cai, J.; Zhao, J.; Wang, F.; Tang, M. Real-time Recognition of Citrus on Trees in Natural Scene. Trans. Chin. Soc. Agric. Mach.
2010, 41, 170–188.
128. Bulanon, D.M.; Kataoka, T.; Ota, Y.; Hiroma, T. AE-Automation and emerging technologies: A segmentation algorithm for the
automatic recognition of fuji apples at harvest. Biosyst. Eng. 2002, 83, 405–412. [CrossRef]
129. Humburg, D.S.; Reid, J.F. Field performance of machine vision for the selective harvest of asparagus. SAE Trans. 1991, 100, 81–92.

Agriculture 2023, 13, 1814
30 of 31
130. Liu, X.; Dai, B.; He, H. Real-time object segmentation for visual object detection in dynamic scenes. In Proceedings of the 2011
International Conference of Soft Computing and Pattern Recognition (SoCPaR), Dalian, China, 14–16 October 2011; pp. 423–428.
131. Khoshroo, A.; Areﬁ, A.; Khodaei, J. Detection of red tomato on plants using image processing techniques. Agric. Commun. 2014, 2,
9–15.
132. Xiong, J.; Lin, R.; Liu, Z. The recognition of litchi clusters and the calculation of picking point in a nocturnal natural environment.
Biosyst. Eng. 2018, 166, 44–57. [CrossRef]
133. Fu, J.; Duan, X.; Zou, X. Banana detection based on color and texture features in the natural environment. Comput. Electron. Agric.
2019, 167, 105057. [CrossRef]
134. Wang, D.; He, D.; Song, H. Combining SUN-based visual attention model and saliency contour detection algorithm for apple
image segmentation. Multimed. Tools Appl. 2019, 78, 17391–17411. [CrossRef]
135. He, B.; Zhang, Y.; Gong, J.; Fu, G.; Zhao, Y.; Wu, R. Rapid Identiﬁcation of Tomato Fruits in Nighttime Greenhouses Based on
Improved YOLO v5. Trans. Chin. Soc. Agric. Mach. 2022, 53, 201–208.
136. Wachs, J.P.; Stern, H.I.; Burks, T. Low and high-level visual feature-based apple detection from multi-modal images. Precis. Agric.
2010, 11, 717–735. [CrossRef]
137. Gen’e-Mola, J.; Vilaplana, V.; Rosell-Polo, J.R.; Morros, J.-R.; Ruiz-Hidalgo, J.; Gregorio, E. Multi-modal deep learning for Fuji
apple detection using RGB-D cameras and their radiometric capabilities. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2019, 162, 689–698. [CrossRef]
138. Fu, L.; Wang, B.; Cui, Y. Kiwifruit recognition at nighttime using artiﬁcial lighting based on machine vision. Int. Agric. Biol. Eng.
2015, 8, 52–59.
139. Ronneberger, O.; Fischer, P.; Brox, T. U-net: Convolutional networks for biomedical image segmentation. In Proceedings of the
International Conference on Medical Image Computing and Computer-Assisted Intervention, Munich, Germany, 5–9 August 2015.
140. Zhao, D.; Liu, X.; Chen, Y. Nighttime recognition method for apple harvesting robots. J. Agric. Mach. 2015, 46, 15–22.
141. Liu, X.; Zhao, D.; Jia, W.; Ruan, C.; Tang, S.; Shen, T. A method of segmenting apples at night based on color and position
information. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2016, 122, 118–123. [CrossRef]
142. Kitamura, S.; Oka, K.; Ikutomo, K.; Kimura, Y.; Taniguchi, Y. A Distinction Method for Fruit of Sweet Pepper Using Reﬂection of
LED Light. In Proceedings of the Annual Conference of the SICE, Chofu, Japan, 20–22 August 2008.
143. Xiong, J.; Bu, R.; Guo, W.; Chen, S.; Yang, Z. Surface Shadow Removal Method for Fruit Recognition of Harvesting Robots Under
Natural Lighting Conditions. Trans. Chin. Soc. Agric. Eng. 2018, 34, 147–154.
144. Wu, T.P.; Tang, C.K. A bayesian approach for shadow extraction from a single image. In Proceedings of the Tenth IEEE
International Conference on Computer Vision, Beijing, China, 20–26 June 2005; pp. 480–487.
145. Han, G.; Cosker, D. User-assisted image shadow removal. Image Vis. Comput. 2017, 62, 19–27.
146. Liu, Y.; Shi, J.; Zhang, Y. Shadow Removal Algorithm for Single Outdoor Image. J. Softw. 2012, 23, 168–175.
147. Levine, M.D.; Bhattacharyya, J. Removing shadows. Pattern Recognit. Lett. 2005, 26, 251–265. [CrossRef]
148. Qu, L.; Tian, J.; Han, Z. Pixel-wise orthogonal decomposition for color illumination invariant and shadow-free image. Opt. Express
2015, 23, 2220–2239. [CrossRef]
149. Shen, L.; Tan, P.; Lin, S. Intrinsic image decomposition with non-local texture cues. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Anchorage, AK, USA, 24–26 July 2008; pp. 1–7.
150. Shen, L.; Yeo, C. Intrinsic images decomposition using a local and global sparse representation of reﬂectance. In Proceedings of
the Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition 2011, Colorado Springs, CO, USA, 21–23 July 2011; pp. 697–704.
151. Laffont, P.Y.; Bousseau, A.; Paris, S. Coherent intrinsic images from photo collections. ACM Trans. Graph. 2012, 31, 1–11. [CrossRef]
152. Figov, Z.; Koppel, M. Detecting and removing shadows. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Computer Graphics
and Imaging, Las Vegas, NV, USA, June 30–3 July 2004.
153. Baba, M.; Mukunoki, M.; Asada, N. Shadow removal from a real image based on shadow density. In Proceedings of the ACM
SIGGRAPH, Los Angeles, CA, USA, 8–12 August 2004.
154. Weiss, Y. Deriving intrinsic images from image sequences. In Proceedings of the Eighth IEEE International Conference on
Computer Vision, Montreal, BC, Canada,14–17 July 2001; pp. 68–75.
155. Matsushita, Y.; Lin, S.; Kang, S.B. Estimating intrinsic images from image sequences with biased illumination. In Proceedings of
the European Conference on Computer Vision, Prague, Czech Republic, 11–14 May 2004; pp. 274–286.
156. Guo, A.X.; Zou, X.J.; Zhu, M.S.; Chen, Y.; Xiong, J.; Chen, L. Analysis and recognition of color characteristics of litchi fruit and
fruit clusters based on exploratory analysis. Trans. Chin. Soc. Agric. Eng. 2013, 29, 191–198.
157. Xiong, J.T.; Zou, X.J.; Wang, H.J. Mature litchi identiﬁcation under different lighting conditions based on Retinex image
enhancement. Trans. Chin. Soc. Agric. Eng. 2013, 29, 170–178.
158. Peng, H.X.; Zou, X.J.; Chen, L.J. Fast identiﬁcation of multi-color targets of litchi in the ﬁeld based on dual-threshold Otsu
algorithm. Trans. Chin. Soc. Agric. Mach. 2014, 45, 61–68.
159. Ding, Y.; Lee, W.S.; Li, M. Feature extraction of hyperspectral images for detecting immature green citrus fruit. Front. Agric. Sci.
Eng. 2018, 5, 475–484. [CrossRef]
160. Zhuang, J.J.; Luo, S.M.; Hou, C.J.; Tang, Y.; He, Y.; Xue, X.Y. Detection of orchard citrus fruits using a monocular machine
vision-based method for automatic fruit picking applications. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2018, 152, 64–73. [CrossRef]
161. Saedi, S.I.; Khosravi, H. A deep neural network approach towards real-time on-branch fruit recognition for precision horticulture.
Expert Syst. Appl. 2020, 159, 113594. [CrossRef]

Agriculture 2023, 13, 1814
31 of 31
162. Xu, Y. Two-stage approach for detecting slightly overlapping strawberries using HOG descriptor. Biosyst. Eng. 2013, 115, 144–153.
[CrossRef]
163. Lin, Y.; Lv, Z.; Yang, C.; Lin, P.; Chen, F.; Hong, J. Recognition and Experiment of Overlapping Honey Pomelo in Natural Scene
Images. Trans. Chin. Soc. Agric. Eng. 2021, 37, 158–167.
164. Abdulla, A.A.; Ahmed, M.W. An improved image quality algorithm for exemplar-based image inpainting. Multimed. Tools Appl.
2021, 80, 13143–13156. [CrossRef]
165. Hedjazi, M.A.; Genc, Y. Efﬁcient texture-aware multi-GAN for image inpainting. Knowl.-Based Syst. 2021, 217, 106789. [CrossRef]
166. Arun, P.L.; Kumar, R.M.S. Non-linear sorenson-dice exemplar image inpainting based bayes probability for occlusion removal in
remote trafﬁc control. Multimed. Tools Appl. 2021, 80, 11523–11538. [CrossRef]
167. Lv, J.D.; Wang, F.; Xu, L.M.; Ma, Z.H.; Yang, B. A segmentation method of bagged green apple image.Sci. Hortic. 2019, 246,
411–417. [CrossRef]
168. Tian, Y.; Duan, H.; Luo, R.; Zhang, Y.; Jia, W.; Lian, J.; Zheng, Y.; Ruan, C.; Li, C. Fast recognition and location of target fruit based
on depth information. IEEE Access 2019, 7, 170553–170563. [CrossRef]
169. Liang, X.; Jin, C.; Ni, M. Acquisition and Experiment of the Position Information of Tomato Fruit String Picking Points. Trans.
Chin. Soc. Agric. Eng. 2018, 34, 163–169.
170. Lin, S.; Wang, N. Cloud robotic grasping of Gaussian mixture model based on point cloud projection under occlusion. Assem.
Autom. 2021, 41, 312–323. [CrossRef]
171. Chen, L. Research on the Strawberry Harvest Robot Picking System. Master’s Thesis, China Agricultural University, Beijing,
China, 2005.
172. Chang-Yong, L.I.; Fang, A.Q.; Tan, H. Elevated Strawberry Picking Robot System Research. Mach. Des. Manuf. 2017, 6, 245–247.
173. Shiigi, T.; Kurita, M.; Kondo, N.; Ninomiya, K.; Rajendra, P.; Kamata, J. Strawberry harvesting robot for fruits grown on tabletop
culture. In Proceedings of the American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers, Providence, RI, USA, 29 July–20 August
2008; p. 084046.
174. Liu, Z.; Liu, G.; Qiao, J. Three-Dimensional Visual Sensor Design of Apple Harvesting Robot. Trans. Chin. Soc. Agric. Mach. 2010,
41, 171–175.
175. Hayashi, S.; Shigematsu, K.; Yamamoto, S.; Kobayashi, K.; Kohno, Y.; Kamata, J. Evaluation of a strawberry-harvesting robot in a
ﬁeld test. Biosyst. Eng. 2010, 105, 160–171. [CrossRef]
176. Zou, X.J.; Ye, M.; Luo, C.H. Fault-tolerant design of a limited universal fruit-picking end-effector based on vision-positioning
error. Appl. Eng. Agric. 2016, 32, 5–18.
177. Africa, A.D.M.; Tabalan, A.R.V.; Tan, M.A.A. Ripe fruit detection and classiﬁcation using machine learning. Int. J. 2020, 8,
60852020. [CrossRef]
178. Xiang, R.; Duan, P.F. Design and experiment of night lighting system for tomato harvesting robots. J. Agric. Mach. 2016, 47, 8–14.
179. Lv, J.; Zhao, D.A.; Wei, J.; Ding, S.H. Recognition of Overlapping and Occluded Fruits in Natural Environment. Optik 2016, 127,
1354–1362. [CrossRef]
180. Wasaki, F.; Imamura, H. A robust recognition method for occlusion of mini tomatoes based on hue information and the curvature.
Int. J. Image Graph. 2015, 15, 1540004. [CrossRef]
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
