ASABE 2019 Annual International Meeting 
Page 1 
 
An ASABE Meeting Presentation 
DOI: https://doi.org/10.13031/aim.201900487 
Paper Number: 1900487 
High-Throughput Image Analysis Framework for Fruit 
Detection, Localization and Measurement from Video Streams 
Yi-Hsuan Huang, Ta-Te Lin 
Department of Bio-Industrial Mechatronics Engineering, National Taiwan University 
No. 1, Sec. 4, Roosevelt Rd., Taipei 10617, Taiwan, R.O.C.  
Written for presentation at the 
2019 ASABE Annual International Meeting 
Sponsored by ASABE 
Boston, Massachusetts 
July 7–10, 2019 
 
ABSTRACT. Food crises and security issues are getting worse due to climate change and population growth. One of the 
solutions being sought is the use of efficient breeding systems, which requires accurate and detailed phenotyping of fruits 
and plants. However, traditional phenotyping methods are time consuming, labor intensive and prone to human error. 
Therefore, measuring the morphological and physiological parameters of fruits automatically is highly recommended. 
In this work, a high-throughput technique for fruits detection, localization and measurement from video streams using 
computer vision and deep neural networks is proposed. In contrast with other works that were developed for single type 
of fruits, a versatile method is proposed herein that can be applied for different types of fruits using a vision system to 
scan through plants row by row in a greenhouse. A real-time object detection algorithm using YOLOv2, a deep neural 
network-based detector, is used for fruit detection and localization on video frames with a hit rate of 84.98%. An 
individual fruit tracking algorithm is applied throughout the video stream to perform tracking of multiple fruits. The 
online tracking algorithm includes feature matching, optical flow and projective transformation optimized by occlusion 
handling techniques such as by applying threshold indices and denoising. On the other hand, the offline tracking 
algorithm uses a voting method to reduce the false alarms caused by the object detector. Finally, phenotyping information 
such as fruit counts, ripening stage, fruit size, and 2D spatial distribution maps were obtained. The proposed framework 
has demonstrated its efficacy in obtaining satisfactory phenotyping information that is useful for production management 
as well as its potential utilization in robotic operations. 
 
Keywords. Automation, Computer vision, Object detection, Object tracking, Phenotyping  
Introduction 
In recent years, food crises and insecurity issues have been getting worse. The 2018 Global Report on Food Crises reports 
on a severe global hunger crisis caused by climate change and population growth (Food Security Information Network, 
2018). To increase food production, many researchers dedicate their efforts on developing automated systems to monitor 
The authors are solely responsible for the content of this meeting presentation. The presentation does not necessarily reflect the official position of the 
American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers (ASABE), and its printing and distribution does not constitute an endorsement of views 
which may be expressed. Meeting presentations are not subject to the formal peer review process by ASABE editorial committees; therefore, they are 
not to be presented as refereed publications. Publish your paper in our journal after successfully completing the peer review process. 
See www.asabe.org/JournalSubmission for details. Citation of this work should state that it is from an ASABE meeting paper. EXAMPLE: Author’s 
Last Name, Initials. 2019. Title of presentation. ASABE Paper No. ---. St. Joseph, MI.: ASABE. For information about securing permission to reprint 
or reproduce a meeting presentation, please contact ASABE at www.asabe.org/permissions (2950 Niles Road, St. Joseph, MI 49085-9659 USA). 

ASABE 2019 Annual International Meeting 
Page 2 
and control plant growth. Two of the several techniques proffered are phenotyping and breeding. Phenotyping is used to 
collect quantitative information on plant characteristics and growth parameters while breeding utilizes the analytical results 
to help plants easily adapt to resource-limited environments. However, traditional phenotyping methods are time consuming, 
labor intensive and prone to human error. With the rapid development of image processing and artificial intelligence 
techniques, computer vision-based agricultural robots or unmanned aerial vehicles are being developed to efficiently perform 
such methods. 
Traditional image processing methods for fruit detection use color information, geometric features or texture to classify 
fruits or leaves (Zhao, et al., 2005). However, hand-crafted feature extractors are easily affected by environmental factors 
such as various lighting or similarities between fruit and background. To overcome this issue, traditional image processing 
methods for fruit detection are being replaced with deep learning techniques. In deep learning, fruit detection is done using 
convolutional neural network- (CNN) based object detectors. Faster R-CNN, one of the most popular object detectors, is a 
single, unified network. The region proposal networks (RPN) are used to serve as the focus of ‘attention’ of the network 
(Ren et al., 2015). Similarly, object detection by You Only Look Once (YOLO) treats images as a regression problem to 
spatially separate bounding boxes and associate class probabilities (Redmon et al., 2016; Redmon and Farhadi, 2017). Both 
deep learning networks are able to detect and locate objects simultaneously in an image. One of the works that uses deep 
learning for fruit detection is by Sa et al. (2016). They used Faster R-CNN to detect fruits in color and near-infrared images, 
with an F1 score of 0.838. Similarly, Bargoti and Underwood (2016) also used Faster R-CNN to detect apples and mangoes, 
with an F1 score above 0.9. To compare the performance between Faster R-CNN and YOLO, Underwood et al. (2018) did 
fruit detection using the YOLO model, with an F1 score of 0.951. 
Together with automated fruit detection, tracking and localization functions can also be performed. Through this process, 
farmers can achieve higher productivity, predict yield and improve crop quality. Moonrinta et al. (2010) used monocular 
cameras and speeded up robust feature (SURF) points to detect the fruit regions and support vector machine (SVM) for 
feature point classification, with a hit rate of 91.37%. By blob tracking, they performed fruit tracking and structure from 
motion (SfM) to obtain 3D reconstructions. Meanwhile, Liu et al. (2018) presented a novel pipeline for counting, tracking 
and localizing fruits through fruit and non-fruit pixels segmentation, across frames tracking and SfM-based 3D localization.  
The specific objectives of this study are to collect images and video streams by RGB-D camera for training the object 
detector model, develop a fruit tracking algorithm, and to measure and validate individual fruit traits. To meet these 
challenges, an imaging framework for fruits detection, localization and measurement was presented. By scanning through 
the crops row by row in a greenhouse, fruit counts, individual fruit ripening stages and 2D spatial localization maps are 
obtained. For fruit detection, a deep learning-based object detector based on YOLOv2 was trained. A finite state machine 
and SfM-based tracking method is proposed. This work can be applied not only for the tested fruits in this study, but also 
for other kinds of fruits by simply retraining the object detector models. 
 
Materials and Methods 
Image and video data collection 
Sample images and videos were collected from an experimental greenhouse located in Chin-Yong farm, Hsinchu, Taiwan. 
The imaging equipment used includes tripod, tripod dolly, Feiyu SPG 3-axis handheld stabilizer and Intel RealSense D435 
depth camera, as shown in Figure 1. 
  
 
Figure 1. Experimental setup for video stream acquisition 

ASABE 2019 Annual International Meeting 
Page 3 
Both RGB and depth images were collected using the D435 depth camera with resolutions of 1920 x 1080 and 1280 x 
720, respectively. By prior testing, the calibrated minimal depth resolution is 0.256 m to set the camera 0.3 m far from the 
targets. Fifteen video streams were collected by the camera where a total of five rows were used for collection, and each 
row was recorded three times. Sample RGB and depth images are shown in Figure 2. 
 
 
 
Figure 2. (a) RGB and (b) depth image samples collected from Chin-Yong farm 
Algorithm overview 
The flowchart of the algorithm is shown in Figure 3 with two main components: detection and tracking. First, the 
YOLOv2 fruit detector is trained by several training images collected from Chin-Yong farm. The detector then detects fruits 
in each RGB frame from video streams. Second, a fruit tracking algorithm is performed on each frame using the SfM tracking 
method. The input RGB frames are filtered using the depth information to keep only the front side crops, the measured 
distance is 0.3 m ~ 1.0 m. Meanwhile, tracking was done in two parts: online tracking and offline tracking. Online tracking 
is used to identify fruits between frames and handle the occlusion problem, while offline tracking eliminates false alarms by 
the detector or depth information. Finally, total fruit count, individual fruit size, and 2D spatial distribution map are obtained 
by analyzing the tracking results. 
 
 
Figure 3. Algorithm flowchart 

ASABE 2019 Annual International Meeting 
Page 4 
Fruit detection 
The YOLOv2 model, with input image sizes of 416 x 416, was used to detect fruits in an image. It splits the input image 
into a few grid cells and regresses the object bounding boxes coordinates in each cell. To prepare the training data, LabelImg 
software (Lin, 2015) was used for annotation. Eight videos were randomly chosen among the 15 videos for sampling one 
training image per twenty frames. Among the training image set items, 100 validation data were randomly chosen. In some 
images, the fruits’ occlusion level varies. Therefore, only fruits with above 50% visible area were labeled to train the 50%-
visible model, while 100% visible were picked out to train the 100%-visible model. The numbers of training and validation 
images are shown in Table 1. 
 
Table 1. Number of training and validation images 
 
Training Data 
Validation Data 
50% - visible model 
100% - visible model 
340 tomato images 
340 tomato images 
100 tomato images 
100 tomato images 
 
For model testing, 100 images, differing from the training data, were sampled from the 15 videos. Three model evaluation 
metrics were used: hit rate, miss rate and false alarm rate, calculated using Equations 1, 2, and 3: 
 
Hit rate = 
∑𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇
∑𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴 𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝 
(1) 
 
Miss rate =
∑𝐹𝐹𝐹𝐹
∑𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴 𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝 
(2) 
 
False alarm rate =
∑𝐹𝐹𝑃𝑃
∑𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛 
(3) 
The detected bounding boxes that properly fit the ground truth bounding boxes by manually verification are considered 
as true positive (TP) detection. Missed bounding boxes are considered false negative (FN) and the overly detected bounding 
boxes are considered false positive (FP). 
Fruit tracking  
To identify individual fruits between frames, finite state machine (FSM) and SfM were used, as shown in Figure 4. 
 
Figure 4. (a) Finite state machine mechanism, (b) online tracking block diagram and (c) offline tracking block diagram 
Three states are included in the FSM: tracked, lost and inactive. The finite state machine mechanism is shown in Figure 
4(a). As long as a fruit is detected, it is tracked. For fruits missed by the object detector or out of detected region, it will be 
set into the lost state. Finally, fruits in the lost state will be set as inactive if it is out of the camera’s field of view, and set as 
tracked if it is re-detected by the detector. The fruit tracking algorithm contains online and offline tracking, as shown in 
Figure 4(b) and Figure 4(c). Online tracking is used for identifying each fruit between frames, while offline tracking is used 
for denoising by eliminating false alarms in the tracking sequences. To only take the front side fruits into account, the images 
were preprocessed by applying binary thresholding by depth information as shown in Equation 4. This allows the scenery 
far from the camera to appear darker, where α is in the range of 0 and 1: 
 
𝐼𝐼𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖= ൜𝐼𝐼𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖, 𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙 𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏≤𝐷𝐷𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖≤𝑢𝑢𝑢𝑢𝑢𝑢𝑢𝑢𝑢𝑢 𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏
𝛼𝛼𝐼𝐼𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖, 𝐷𝐷𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖≥𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙 𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝐷𝐷𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖≤𝑢𝑢𝑢𝑢𝑢𝑢𝑢𝑢𝑢𝑢 𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏 
(4) 
where Iij is the pixel value of image I(i, j) and Dij is the depth value of image I(i, j). In this work, the lower bound is equal 
to 0.3 m, while the upper bound is equal to 1.0 m; the distance of the camera setting in front of the crop falls under the set 

ASABE 2019 Annual International Meeting 
Page 5 
threshold. On the other hand, α is 0, 1/4, 1/5 to show how the background affects the results by parameter testing. After 
detecting the fruits from the preprocessed frame, two criteria were set to filter out the detection false alarm: leaf or non-front 
side fruits. First, the median distance of the detected fruit’s bounding box should be in the range of the lower bound and 
upper bound as defined above. Second, the standard deviation of the distance of a detected fruit’s bounding box should be 
smaller than a threshold such that the object has a smooth circular shape. 
SfM is performed in the online tracking. In the first stage tracked policy, as shown in Figure 4(b), tracking features 
proposed by Shi and Tomasi (1993) are used to detect feature points in each frame, while optical flow is used to match them 
between frames (Lucas and Kanade, 1981). Since the system only detects the frontal row, feature points which are too far 
from the camera were eliminated from the matching set. In addition, object movement between frames should be seen as 
rigid transformations. Therefore, fruit movements between frames can be approximated as a rigid transformation between 
the matching feature points. Finally, it predicts the position of each individual fruit in the next frame. The object detector 
detects the fruits in each frame. By calculating the L2 distance between the predicted position and the detected position, a 
distance threshold is set to determine which ID the detected fruits should be. To formulate, suppose 𝑃𝑃𝑡𝑡,𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡= ൛𝑝𝑝𝑡𝑡
1, … , 𝑝𝑝𝑡𝑡
𝑀𝑀𝑡𝑡ൟ 
denotes the positions of all the 𝑀𝑀𝑡𝑡 objects in tracked state in the t-th frame, then: 
 
∃𝑥𝑥∈𝑀𝑀𝑡𝑡, 𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝑖𝑖= ฮ𝑝𝑝𝑡𝑡
𝑥𝑥−𝐻𝐻× 𝑝𝑝𝑡𝑡−1
𝑖𝑖
ฮ2, ∀𝑖𝑖∈𝑀𝑀𝑡𝑡−1 
(5) 
 
𝚤𝚤̂ = argmin
𝑖𝑖
𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝑖𝑖 
(6) 
 
𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖 𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝐷𝚤𝚤̂ < 𝑡𝑡ℎ𝑟𝑟𝑟𝑟𝑟𝑟ℎ ,
𝑡𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒 𝑥𝑥= 𝚤𝚤̂
𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜ℎ𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒 𝑥𝑥= 0 
(7) 
where H is the rigid transformation matrix. The distance threshold is set dynamically based on the size of the object. In 
addition, if the L2 distance between two detected object is too close, both distance thresholds are divided by two to decrease 
the probability of false ID matching. The distance threshold, intersection over union (IoU) values of matched boxes and 
median depth difference were also taken into account. The IoU value is computed using Equation 8: 
 
𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼𝐼=
𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎(𝐵𝐵𝐷𝐷⋂𝐵𝐵𝑃𝑃)
𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎(𝐵𝐵𝐷𝐷⋃𝐵𝐵𝑃𝑃) 
(8) 
where BD is the bounding box coordinates of the detected fruit and BP is the bounding box coordinates of the predicted 
fruit from the former frame. For fruits with x = 0, it means that those fruits did not match with any predicted fruit from the 
last frame. However, they may be some re-detected fruits from the lost state. The second stage occlusion handling is then 
performed. Similar to the first stage, predicted fruit positions were calculated throughout each frame. Distance, IoU and 
cumulated fruit median depth difference thresholds were also considered for identification. 
Finally, an offline tracking algorithm is performed on the online tracking results, as shown in Figure 4(c). If the instances 
of the tracked state appear less than a threshold in the whole state sequence by binary thresholding, then it is defined as a 
false alarm. The threshold is highly dependent on the false alarm rate and hit rate of the object detector. If the false alarm 
rate is low and the hit rate is high, then the threshold should be lower, and vice versa. In this work, the detector has a hit rate 
of 84.98% and a false alarm rate of 15.02%; the threshold was set to 2 by prior parameter tuning. 
After tracking, fruit size, maturity stage and 2D distribution map were evaluated. Individual relative fruit sizes were 
calculated by multiplying the width and height from the YOLO detected bounding boxes; the maturity stage is calculated by 
GraphCut algorithm (Rother et al., 2004); the color thresholding and distribution map were calculated by inverse rigid 
transformation. 
Results and Discussion 
Model tuning and evaluation 
While training, each kind of model goes through 45000 iterations in maximum. In the first 1000 iterations, a model for 
each set of 100 iterations was saved. In the last 44000 iterations, a model for each set of 1000 iterations was saved. Therefore, 
there were a maximum of 54 models in total in each kind of model. The loss during training was plotted, as shown in Figure 
5. The figure showed that about 20000 iterations were enough for the 50%-visible model to converge, while it took less 
iterations to converge for the 100%-visible model. Moreover, the average training loss of 100%-visible model was lower. In 
testing the model on the raw data, hit rates, false alarm rates and miss rates were used to evaluate the models performance. 

ASABE 2019 Annual International Meeting 
Page 6 
 
Figure 5. Training loss of (a) 50%-visible and (b) 100%-visible model 
From the results obtained, the 50%-visible and 100%-visible model has a hit rate of 84.98% and 67.91%, respectively. 
The 100%-visible model was determined overfitting as it had the poor performance on testing data and had the better 
performance on training data. Therefore, the 50%-visible model was then chosen for the tracking algorithm with a higher 
hit rate. Sample images of the testing results under the best iteration are shown in Figure 6. Two images on the upper row 
are the same as sampled from the video No. 10 and the two images on the lower row are sampled from video No. 5. 
 
Figure 6. Typical results of testing samples 
Analysis of fruit tracking results 
The results of the total fruit count and absolute relative fruit count error for each video sorted with the actual fruit counts 
are shown in Figure 7 with the absolute relative fruit count error calculated using Equation 10. 

ASABE 2019 Annual International Meeting 
Page 7 
 
Figure 7. (a) Total fruit count and (b) absolute relative fruit count error results 
 
Absolute relative fruit count error (%) =
|𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴 𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐−𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴 𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐|
𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴 𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐
× 100 
(10)  
It was observed that the algorithm with preprocessing, including online and offline tracking, can reach the least average 
absolute relative fruit count error of 12%. With online tracking alone, the counting results were highly dependent on the 
detection results and were affected by depth noises generated by the camera. In addition, due to the irregular environment, 
the performance of feature matching varied under different circumstances. Fortunately, the first two issues were solved by 
image and feature preprocessing and fruit detection filter. Without the image preprocessing step, the average absolute relative 
fruit count error increased from 12% to 29%, as graphically compared in Figure 8. It can obtain the best result when α is 0. 
 
Figure 8. Fruit counting results comparison (a) with and (b) without feature preprocessing (Fruit ID: 10) 
In frame 117, the fruit with ID 10 was detected. However, from frame 117 through 154, the fruit was occluded by the 
leaves and missed by the detector. Through these frames, light green dots were used to represent the predicted fruit position. 
If the feature preprocessing was not performed, it was noticeable that the light green dots series cannot follow the movement 
of the fruits and named it with a wrong ID of 23. In order to solve the feature matching bias problem, rigid transformation 
was applied. Compared to the full affine transformation, rigid transformation has only four degrees of freedom. Therefore, 
it is more unlikely to generate erratic frame transformation matrices, which are sometimes caused by camera distortions, 
rocky surfaces or blurred images. Without the rigid transformation applied, the average absolute relative fruit count error 
increased from 12% to 25%. 
In online tracking, the results of the first stage and second stage are shown in Figure 9(a). 

ASABE 2019 Annual International Meeting 
Page 8 
 
Figure 9. First and second stage fruit tracking results 
 
The predicted positions were calculated using a rigid transformation matrix. The detected results were from the YOLO 
detector. If the centers of the detected fruits are inside the blue circle, it means that the distance between the detected fruit 
and predicted fruit is smaller than the threshold; thus, the detected fruit then belongs to the fruit appearing in the last frame. 
The threshold was set based on the fruit size calculated from the YOLO detector, which is general for different fruit sizes. 
The series of dots, with different colors, were the lost fruits in the buffer. Whenever a fruit was missed by the detector, its 
position was stored for second stage processing. Moreover, there were two bright green circles in Figure 9(a), Frame k, 
which means that the distance between fruits with ID 2 and 3 were too close; their distance thresholds were then smaller. 
These results show that most false alarms occur due to grouped fruits and leaves. With grouped fruits, it is harder to clarify 
where and how many the fruits are, as some leaves sometimes look like fruits. In offline tracking, samples of eliminated 
fruits are shown in Figure 9(b).  
2D fruit localization and measurements 
Results of individual ripening stage measurements are shown in Figure 10. 
 
Figure 10. Typical examples of determining individual fruit ripening stage 
By using the GraphCut algorithm, fruits were segmented from the background. By thresholding, each pixel defined as a 
fruit was determined as ripe or not ripe. If it was ripe, the pixel values were higher. However, the detector may have bias on 
positions of detected bounding boxes due to the occlusion or grouping issue. Therefore, the GraphCut algorithm was only 
used on the visible parts, like in Figure 10(d). Asides from detector bias, the results were also affected by various illumination 
even when the experiments were performed inside the greenhouse.  
The 2D fruit localization map result is shown in Figure 11. 

ASABE 2019 Annual International Meeting 
Page 9 
 
Figure 11. 2D fruit localization map showing spatial phenotyping information 
Ripening stage and size of the fruits were represented using dots with different colors and sizes. In theory, tomatoes have 
6 growth stages. During the third stage, tomatoes change color from green to red and the pulps become softer from the fifth 
stage to the sixth stage. Using this information, the ripening stages and relative fruit size were divided into the 5th and 6th 
stage. The colors chosen were closed to the ground truth color. The green and light orange colors signify the unripen stage, 
while the orange, red and dark red color signify the gradual ripening stage. Fruit sizes are measured in regard to relative 
pixel level. In the histogram, the sizes are shown evenly distributed. Moreover, the size of the fruit cannot directly describe 
its ripening stage. 
The information collected by the algorithm can be used by farmers to plan the storage and labor needs before harvesting. 
For instance, the area with more and bigger fruits should have more manpower for harvesting. On the other hand, if the 
experiments were done per day, the algorithm can be used to analyze the spatial and temporal information. By comparing 
the results of the same rows during a specific time, fruits growth measurement can be done. By scanning each row in the 
greenhouse, the spatial distribution can also be determined. Therefore, farmers can adjust their farming strategies to improve 
their profit. 
Conclusion  
This paper presents a method for counting fruits, recording individual fruit sizes, ripening stages and 2D fruit distribution 
mapping using an RGB-D imaging system. Based on the detection results, the 50%-visible model outperforms the 100%-
visible model, with a higher hit rate of 84.98% compared with 67.91%. In the fruit tracking algorithm, the lowest absolute 
relative fruit count error is 12% with image and feature points preprocessing, rigid transformation of feature points and 
offline tracking. The experimental results show that the 2D fruit localization map may provide farmers with individual or 
grouped fruit growth levels, help determine the best environment for growing the fruits and plan different harvesting methods. 
The proposed framework has demonstrated its efficacy in obtaining satisfactory phenotyping information that is useful for 
production management as well as its potential utilization in robotic operations. Currently, few errors still occur due to the 
detector false alarms, inaccurate feature matching algorithm and the blurred images caused by image acquisition errors. As 
future work, it is recommended to add more training data to increase the accuracy of the detector and gather more data for 
analysis. 
Acknowledgements  
The authors would like to thank the staff members of Chin-Yong Farm in Hsinchu, Taiwan, for allowing us to collect the 
image samples from their site. 
References  
Bargoti, S., & Underwood, J. (2016). Deep Fruit Detection in Orchards. arXiv preprint arXiv:1610.03677. 
Food Security Information Network. (2018). 2018 Global Report on Food Crises. World Food Programme. 
Lin, T. T. (2015). LabelImg. Retrieved from: https://github.com/tzutalin/labelImg 
Liu, X., Chen, S. W., Aditya, S., Sivakumar, N., Dcunha, S., Qu, C., & Kumar, V. (2018). Robust fruit counting: Combining deep learning, 
tracking, and structure from motion. Proc. IEEE/RSJ Int. Conf. on Intell. Robots Syst., 2018, pp. 1045–1052. 
Lucas, B. D., & Kanade, T. (1981). An iterative image registration technique with an application to stereo vision. Proc. Int. Joint Conf. on 
Artificial Intelligence, 1981, pp. 674-679. 

ASABE 2019 Annual International Meeting 
Page 10 
Moonrinta, J., Chaivivatrakul, S., Dailey, M. N., & Ekpanyapong, M. (2010). Fruit detection, tracking, and 3D reconstruction for crop mapping 
and yield estimation. IEEE, 11th Int. Conf. on Control Automation Robotics & Vision, pp. 1181-1186. 
Redmon, J., & Farhadi, A. (2017). YOLO9000: better, faster, stronger. arXiv Preprint, arXiv:1612.08242, 2016 
Redmon, J., Divvala, S., Girshick, R., & Farhadi, A. (2016). You only look once: Unified, real-time object detection. Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. 
CVPR, 2016, pp. 779–788. 
Ren, S., He, K., Girshick, R., & Sun, J. (2015). Faster R-CNN: Towards real-time object detection with region proposal networks. Proc. 28th 
Int. Conf. Neural Inf. Process. Syst., pp. 91–99. 
Rother, C., Kolmogorov, V., & Blake, A. (2004, August). Grabcut: Interactive foreground extraction using iterated graph cuts. ACM 
transactions on graphics, vol. 23, no. 3, pp. 309-314. 
Sa, I., Ge, Z., Dayoub, F., Upcroft, B., Perez, T., & McCool, C. (2016). Deepfruits: A fruit detection system using deep neural 
networks. Sensors, vol. 16, no. 8, p. 1222. 
Shi, J., & Tomasi, C. (1994). Good features to track. Proc. IEEE Computer Society Conf. on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pp. 
593-600. 
Underwood, J. P., Rahman, M. M., Robson, A., Walsh, K. B., Koirala, A., & Wang, Z. (2018). Fruit load estimation in mango orchards—a 
method comparison. ICRA 2018 workshop on robotic vision and action in agriculture. Brisbane, Australia. 
Zhao, J., Tow, J., Katupitiya, J. (2005). On-tree fruit recognition using texture properties and color data. Int. Conf. on Intelligent Robots and 
Systems. Edmonton Canada, p. 263-268. 
