MFFT: an improved method for stable ID tracking and counting of 
multi-class mango segmentation with multi-feature fusion in complex 
occlusion scenarios
Wentao Huang a, Yingsheng Li a,b, Beike Tan a, Marija Brki´c Bakari´c c,d, Zhiqiang Zhu e,  
Xiaoshuan Zhang a,f,*
a College of Engineering, China Agricultural University, Beijing 100083, China
b School of Instrument Science and Technology, Xi ’an Jiaotong University, Xi ’an 710049, China
c Faculty of Informatics and Digital Technologies, University of Rijeka, Rijeka 51000, Croatia
d Centre for Artificial Intelligence and Cybersecurity, University of Rijeka, Rijeka 51000, Croatia
e National Engineering and Technology Research Center for Preservation of Agricultural Products, Tianjin Academy of Agriculture Sciences, Tianjin 300384, China
f Sanya Institute, China Agricultural University, Sanya 572000, China
A R T I C L E I N F O
Keywords:
Fruit counting
Computer vision
Feature fusion
Multi-class tracking
Biomass estimation
A B S T R A C T
Accurate mango segmentation, counting, and biomass estimation are critical for orchard yield prediction. To 
address the challenges of low fruit segmentation accuracy, frequent ID switches, and large tracking and counting 
errors under complex occlusion scenarios, this paper proposes a multi-feature fusion tracking method termed 
MFFT. The method is built on the Swin-T backbone and a customized Transformer decoder, integrated with 
shallow feature enhancement, boundary attention, and background gating modules. For mango segmentation, 
the proposed approach achieves 0.71 mIoU and 40.32 FPS for both on-tree and fallen mangoes. In the tracking 
stage, IOU, HSV, shape, and diagonal features are fused, together with an improved Kalman filter and ID lifecycle 
management, resulting in a MOTA of 0.6513 and a significant reduction in ID switches. The system innovatively 
introduces diagonal length as a computational metric, achieving a counting relative error of only 4.30% and a 
biomass estimation error of 4.49%. It outperforms mainstream algorithms such as Mask R-CNN, YOLOv8, DTER, 
and ByteTrack across multiple metrics. The proposed method exhibits strong application potential in orchards 
and provides more precise data support and a decision-making foundation for digital agricultural production 
management. The code and dataset for this study have been made open source on Google Drive: https://drive. 
google.com/file/d/1UzvgiqlXn-C2aJZsHmcLAWSYaVYA0bnH/view?usp=sharing.
1. Introduction
Mango, a high-value cash crop widely cultivated in tropical and 
subtropical regions worldwide (Lei et al., 2025), benefits from yield 
prediction and precise biomass estimation, which are directly linked to 
the optimization of orchard irrigation and fertilization management, 
harvesting schedule planning, and market supply–demand regulation. 
These aspects form the core driver for advancing the mango industry 
towards large-scale and intelligent transformation (Xie et al., 2024). 
With the rapid development of digital agricultural technologies, com­
puter vision, owing to its advantages of non-contact, real-time, and high- 
precision operation (Zhou, et al., 2025a,2025b), has gradually replaced 
traditional manual counting and sampling estimation methods, 
emerging as a core technological pathway for monitoring crop growth 
status and evaluating yield in orchards (Karabanov et al., 2025). 
Currently, computer vision is applied in disease differentiation, fruit 
segmentation, yield prediction, and other areas, providing growers with 
comprehensive dynamic growth data of fruits throughout the entire 
growth cycle (Lv et al., 2025). This offers robust data support for agri­
cultural management decision-making, holding significant practical 
relevance.
In recent years, extensive research on visual detection technologies 
for orchard crops has been conducted by scholars globally, with fruit 
segmentation 
serving 
as 
a 
critical 
preprocessing 
step. 
The 
* Corresponding author at: College of Engineering, China Agricultural University, Beijing 100083, China..
E-mail addresses: wentao2024@cau.edu.cn (W. Huang), 2022307150317@cau.edu.cn (Y. Li), 2022307150101@cau.edu.cn (B. Tan), mbrkic@uniri.hr
(M.B. Bakari´c), zhzq111@163.com (Z. Zhu), zhxshuan@cau.edu.cn (X. Zhang). 
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/compag
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2026.112149
Received 26 February 2026; Received in revised form 25 June 2026; Accepted 2 July 2026  
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 253 (2026) 112149 
Available online 8 July 2026 
0168-1699/© 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. 

methodological evolution in this domain has crystallized into two 
principal technical pathways: traditional machine vision and deep 
learning. Traditional approaches rely on manually designed color 
thresholds, texture features, and morphological operations to achieve 
object segmentation (Rojas Santelices et al., 2025). For example, such 
methods have been applied to citrus shape detection, offering simplicity 
and low cost. However, their applicability is confined to specific 
experimental conditions, lacking the robustness required for complex 
real-world orchard environments, which has led to their gradual 
displacement by deep learning techniques in numerous application 
scenarios (Yang et al., 2025). Among deep learning based segmentation 
methods, instance segmentation (Xu et al., 2025) and semantic seg­
mentation (Xu et al., 2025) currently represent the mainstream frame­
works. Nevertheless, both exhibit significant adaptation limitations 
when confronted with the complexities of mango orchard environments 
and scenarios characterized by limited sample sizes, thereby failing to 
meet the demands of practical deployment.
Instance segmentation stands as a primary technique for precise 
extraction of individual fruits, widely applied in orchard crop detection. 
Traditional instance segmentation models, represented by Mask R–CNN, 
enable end–to–end training for detection and mask generation. To 
address fruit segmentation under dense canopy occlusion, Liao 
improved the mask head of Mask R–CNN, achieving a peak accuracy of 
0.941; under heavier occlusion, the model attained a best recall of 0.846 
(Liao et al., 2025). Crespo employed Mask R–CNN with a ResNet–FPN 
backbone from Detectron2 for strawberry instance segmentation, 
obtaining an mAP of 0.8345 (Crespo et al., 2025). Moreover, Zu and Lee 
respectively integrated ResNet50 (Zu et al., 2021) and ResNet101 (Lee 
et al., 2020) with Mask R–CNN, both reaching high accuracy on their 
respective datasets. However, these models are complex and generally 
exhibit slow inference speeds. In subsequent developments, YOLO has 
proven to be a highly efficient detection–segmentation architecture, 
widely adopted for fruit segmentation tasks. Zhou applied an improved 
YOLO v8 for instance segmentation and localization of multi–colored 
apples, achieving mAP above 0.95 for each color variant (Zhou, et al., 
2025a,2025b). For grape–peduncle segmentation, Shen designed MSA­
–YOLO based on YOLOv8, attaining a segmentation mAP@50 of 0.995 
(Shen et al., 2025). To adapt to complex environments, Wei refined 
YOLOv8, improving segmentation mask mAP50 and mAP50–95 by 5.8% 
and 8.5% respectively over the original version (Wei et al., 2025). 
Among recent advanced models, DETR, with its Transformer–based 
global feature capture capability, provides more precise boundary 
delineation and is gaining increasing attention. Zhu utilized a custom 
transformer to enhance segmentation AP (Zhu et al., 2025a). Zhu 
employed an improved mask2former for watermelon–scion leaf seg­
mentation, achieving an mIOU of 0.9744 (Zhu et al., 2025b). In contrast 
to instance segmentation, semantic segmentation networks adopt 
lightweight encoder–decoder structures, offering efficient inference and 
strong hardware compatibility. They enable rapid pixel–wise separation 
of fruit from background, effectively handling complex background 
interference. Ibarra evaluated UNet for segmenting tomato fruits and 
leaves, reporting a peak performance of 0.89078 (Guerra Ibarra et al., 
2025). Mondal used MobileNet–v2 as the backbone with UNet as the 
image segmentation model, obtaining IoU and Dice scores of 95.69% 
and 97.89% respectively (Mondal et al., 2025). Liu designed a fish 
segmentation model that reached an mIOU of 0.9273 (Liu et al., 2024a). 
However, in mango orchard scenarios characterized by complex view­
ing–angle and illumination variations, extensive bagging, dense clus­
tering and adhesion of fruits, and severe occlusion among leaves and 
mangoes, prior research remains limited. In Swin–S and SegFormer 
achieved the best IoU (67.35% and 66.44%, respectively) for clustered 
mango–flower segmentation, yet their mAP for isolated mangoes was 
inferior to that of YOLO (Ven et al., 2025).
Following fruit segmentation, the subsequent step is tracking and 
counting, with the core methodology being multi-object tracking 
(MOT). Existing MOT algorithms, such as SORT and DeepSORT, 
predominantly operate in an online manner, relying on segmentation or 
detection results and achieving identity association through feature 
matching. Zhang employed YOLOv8 and DeepSORT for pedestrian 
detection and tracking, with improvements yielding a 9.7% increase in 
MOTA (Zhang, et al., 2025a,2025b). Sim applied StrongSORT to multi- 
cow tracking, achieving HOTA, MOTA, and IDF1 scores of 78.64%, 
90.29%, and 91.41%, respectively (Sim and Cho, 2025). Harefa inte­
grated the efficient IoU-based matching of ByteTrack with the 
appearance-driven association of DeepSORT, resulting in significant 
improvements in MOTA and IDF1 compared to using either method 
independently (Harefa and Wijaya, 2025). Some researchers have 
extracted core concepts and developed customized trackers by fusing 
different features for identity matching, tailored to specific practical 
conditions. Zhou developed a MultiMap component combined with 
existing advanced tracking algorithms to achieve real-time tracking of 
multiple fruits, with the lowest counting error rate reaching only 6.7% 
(Zhou et al., 2024). Liu addressed occlusion and deformation in fish 
movement by leveraging appearance information and motion models, 
enabling multi-fish tracking with a HOTA score of 71.4% (Liu et al., 
2024b). Yao designed an end-to-end real-time fish tracking model, 
FMRFT, achieving an IDF1 of 90.3% and a MOTA accuracy of 94.3% 
(Yao et al., 2025). However, in the context of mango orchards, few 
studies have investigated tracking and counting methods under such 
complex conditions. Pichhika proposed a centroid-tracking algorithm 
for precise counting (Pichhika et al., 2025), but it is unsuitable for 
scenarios with severe mutual occlusion among mangoes. Previous 
tracker designs that fuse different features for specific scenarios provide 
valuable insights for subsequent development.
The final stage is biomass estimation, which calculates the theoret­
ical fruit yield in an orchard, reduces labor input, and provides direct 
support for orchard production. Some studies have already employed 
detection and counting methods for biomass estimation. For example, 
the passion fruit yield was estimated using the YOLOv8n + OC–SORT +
CRCM algorithm, achieving an average counting accuracy of 87.0% and 
effectively addressing issues such as false positives, missed detections of 
small fruits, and duplicate counting (Tu et al., 2025). However, this 
approach lacks correlation with actual yield. Another study, YOLO–F­
CAP, enhanced the detection capability of YOLO for citrus in complex 
environments but did not incorporate continuous counting (Zeng et al., 
2025). These examples illustrate that current research on biomass esti­
mation has not yet effectively integrated segmentation results with 
counting outcomes.
Inspired by the above, this study formulates integrated methods for 
segmentation, tracking–counting, and biomass estimation to address the 
current challenges in mango orchard segmentation, tracking, and 
biomass assessment. The main contributions of this work are as follows: 
(1) A segmentation method adapted to small–sample complex sce­
narios is constructed. To overcome the shortcomings of existing 
segmentation approaches, a pixel–wise camouflaged instance 
network is designed, integrating a Swin–T backbone with a 
custom Transformer decoder and multiple specialized modules. 
This network alleviates the problem of dense fruit adhesion, en­
ables segmentation of both on–tree and on–ground mangoes, and 
improves segmentation accuracy under small–sample training 
with complex data.
(2) A tracking–counting method based on multi–feature fusion and 
ID lifecycle management is proposed. Features including IoU, Hu 
moments, HSV color, and mango diagonal length are fused to 
enhance cross–frame association stability. This is combined with 
an ID lifecycle management mechanism to reduce issues of 
duplicate counting, target loss, and ID switches.
(3) A complete pipeline from segmentation to tracking to biomass 
estimation is established. By using the mango diagonal length 
extracted from segmentation as a core feature and integrating it 
W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 253 (2026) 112149 
2 

with tracking–counting results, the correlation between biomass 
assessment and actual yield is strengthened.
2. Materials and methods
2.1. Data collection
The dataset for this study was collected from a 0.3-hectare com­
mercial Jinhuang mango plantation in Baoting County, Hainan Province 
(18◦23′–18◦53′N, 109◦21′–109◦48′E). Specific counting regions were 
predefined based on the orchard layout, taking single rows as basic units 
to delineate Regions of Interest (ROIs), each assigned a unique identifier 
for precise association of subsequent counting results with target trees or 
rows. Since the photographs included a large number of blurry mangoes, 
to facilitate statistical analysis, the count was limited to clearly identi­
fiable mangoes—both those hanging on trees in the foreground of the 
frame and those that had fallen to the ground. Mangoes that were too far 
in the background or too high in the tree canopy to be clearly identified 
were excluded from this count, thereby enhancing the validity and 
reliability of the results in this study. Data acquisition was conducted 
during the ripening and harvesting periods (March 2025) using a 
smartphone (50MP main camera with 24 mm focal length, 48MP ultra- 
wide-angle camera with 13 mm focal length), set to 720 × 1280 pixel 
resolution, auto-adjusted ISO (100–800) and white balance, and 1/ 
60–1/1000 s shutter speed to avoid motion blur. Multiple viewing an­
gles were systematically employed, including ground-level view and 
inter-row side view, comprehensively capturing the visual characteris­
tics of both hanging mangoes (with/without occlusion, clustered 
stacking) and fallen mangoes on the ground (isolated/stacked) against 
complex backgrounds (soil, weeds, branches, leaves). The acquisition 
covered various lighting conditions (sunny, cloudy, weak light, dusk) 
and different times of day (morning, afternoon, evening) to ensure scene 
diversity (Fig. 1).
Annotations were performed at the pixel level using the LabelMe 
tool, with two defined categories: on-tree mangoes and on-ground 
mangoes. By simultaneously monitoring both tree-ripened and 
ground-fallen mangoes, this approach enables a comprehensive assess­
ment of growth status, fruit drop and loss, and disease risk, providing 
data to support precision management of orchards and yield forecasting. 
Due to continuous variations in camera angle, distance, and fruit pose 
during video recording (30 FPS), key frames were extracted at 2 FPS, 
and valid images were screened to exclude motion-blurred or over/ 
underexposed ones, ensuring each image contained at least 10 mango 
instances. Polygons were used to outline mangoes, prioritizing clearly 
visible and fully shaped fruits to avoid mutual interference. A total of 
552 valid images were annotated, with a random 8:2 split resulting in 
439 training images and 113 validation images—both sets maintaining 
consistent distributions of regions, environments, angles, and mango 
densities. Separate JSON-format annotation files for the two sets were 
generated by LabelMe, containing category, image size, bounding boxes, 
and masks. To meet segmentation network input requirements and 
optimize training efficiency, all images were uniformly resized to 256 ×
256 pixels, and ImageNet-standard normalization (mean [0.485, 0.456, 
0.406], standard deviation [0.229, 0.224, 0.225]) was applied to stan­
dardize pixel value distributions, enhancing training stability and 
convergence speed.
It is worth noting that bagging cultivation is widely adopted in major 
mango production areas. This practice improves fruit appearance 
quality and reduces pest and disease damage. This study focuses on 
bagged mangoes as the research subject. This setting is highly consistent 
with actual production standards. The remaining challenges include 
branch and leaf occlusion, fruit stacking, and uneven illumination. 
These factors impose realistic demands on the robustness of orchard 
vision algorithms. The research outcomes can directly support auto­
mated management in mainstream production scenarios. All samples in 
this study were collected from naturally bagged mangoes that met 
standard orchard practices. The bagging operations followed local 
cultivation regulations. No bags were removed prior to data collection. 
This ensures that the dataset maintains consistency with real operational 
environments.
2.2. Segmented network architecture design
The proposed mango segmentation model is constructed on a Swin 
Transformer-Tiny (Swin-T) backbone and a custom Transformer 
decoder. To address challenges such as small-size mango targets, dense 
clustering and adhesion, and complex backgrounds, multiple dedicated 
modules are introduced. The overall architecture is illustrated in Fig. 2. 
The input mango image is processed by the Swin-T backbone to extract 
hierarchical features and semantic information. Subsequently, the fea­
tures are fed into a Shallow-Feature Enhancement (SFE) module to 
achieve effective fusion of shallow detail and deep semantic features. 
Within the decoder, the features first pass through a feature projection 
layer and a coordinate attention block, followed by multi-scale feature 
fusion. The fused features then sequentially flow through three 
enhancement modules: Spatial-Orientation Attention (SOA), Boundary- 
Aware Module (BAM), and Background-Global Modulation (BGM). 
Mask aggregation is subsequently performed. Finally, the features are 
processed by a Mask Head for dimension adjustment and upsampled to 
match the input resolution, followed by a mask-refinement module to 
output the refined mango segmentation mask. The details of these 
modules are described in the following sections.
Fig. 1. The mango data collection environment includes: (a) Normal lighting (b) Strong light (c) Weak light (d) Dusk (extremely weak light) (e) Dense shading (f) 
Complex backgrounds.
W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 253 (2026) 112149 
3 

2.2.1. Stem feature extraction network (Swin-T)
Swin Transformer (Swin-T) is built upon the Transformer-based 
vision paradigm, employing a local window self-attention mechanism 
to efficiently process multi-scale features. Compared to traditional 
CNNs, its self-attention mechanism effectively captures long-range de­
pendencies and exhibits strong generalization capabilities, making it 
suitable for large-scale image tasks. In this study, a pre-trained Swin-T 
model is adopted as the backbone network to achieve multi-scale feature 
representation of mango targets. The feature extraction process is as 
follows: a 256 × 256 input image is divided into 4 × 4 patches via the 
Patch Embedding module and linearly projected into a feature map of 
96 × 64 × 64. It then passes through four stages of Swin Transformer 
Blocks and Patch Merging operations, progressively downsampling 
while increasing the channel dimensions: Stage 1 outputs 96 × 64 × 64, 
Stage 2 outputs 192 × 32 × 32, Stage 3 outputs 384 × 16 × 16, and Stage 
4 outputs 768 × 8 × 8. To adapt to transfer learning and prevent 
overfitting, a staged unfreezing strategy is applied: initially, Stages 1–2 
are frozen while only Stages 3–4 and the decoder are trained; Stage 2 is 
unfrozen at epoch 15, and Stage 1 is unfrozen at epoch 25. This approach 
balances the transfer of pre-trained features with scene adaptation, 
thereby enhancing training stability and feature representation 
accuracy.
2.2.2. Custom transformer decoder
Mask2Former, a high-performance segmentation model, integrates 
the core advantages of Mask Transformer and convolutional neural 
networks to achieve precise object segmentation. Its key innovation lies 
in transforming pixel-wise segmentation into a sequence modeling task, 
leveraging the Transformer architecture for feature aggregation and 
mask prediction. This design combines multi-scale information pro­
cessing capability with the robustness and accuracy improvements 
provided by the self-attention mechanism. In the present model, the 
framework and structure of Mask2Former’s decoder are adapted to 
design a custom Transformer decoder. The decoder is deeply coupled 
with the backbone, preserving benefits such as multi-scale feature fusion 
and self-attention, while integrating multiple attention and enhance­
ment modules to improve the accuracy of mango mask predictions, 
thereby enhancing segmentation performance in complex mango or­
chard environments.
Shallow feature enhancement
To mitigate the inherent trade-off in deep convolutional 
networks—namely, insufficient semantic information in shallow fea­
tures and loss of spatial detail in deep features—this paper designs the 
Shallow Feature Enhancement (SFE) module, as illustrated in Fig. 3. The 
module adopts a cross-scale fusion strategy: deep features are up- 
sampled and aligned with shallow features, and both are then pro­
jected and concatenated along the channel dimension. A subsequent 3 ×
3 convolution performs local association modeling, yielding enhanced 
features that preserve both fine detail and rich semantics. This design 
effectively improves feature representation for small targets.
Feature projection layer and coordinate attention
To unify multi-scale feature dimensions and enhance spatial locali­
Fig. 2. Overall Architecture of the Mango Segmentation Network.
W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 253 (2026) 112149 
4 

zation capability, this study integrates a feature projection layer with a 
coordinate attention mechanism. The module first reduces the dimen­
sionality of multi-scale inputs via 1 × 1 convolutions, then incorporates 
coordinate attention to capture spatial distribution information of the 
target, thereby compensating for the limitation of traditional projection 
that focuses solely on channel-wise features. The projected features 
undergo bidirectional coordinate encoding, feature concatenation, and 
weight generation, achieving joint spatial-channel modulation and 
thereby improving feature representation capability (Eqs. 1-6). 
Xproj = BN(Conv1×1(X))
(1) 
Xh = AdaptiveAvgPool2d(Xproj, (H, 1)), Xw
= AdaptiveAvgPool2d(Xproj, (1, W))
(2) 
Xcat = ReLU(BN(Conv1×1([Xh; XT
w])))
(3) 
Xhʹ, Xwʹ = Split(Xcat)
(4) 
Ah = Sigmoid(Conv1×1(Xhʹ)),
Aw = Sigmoid(Conv1×1(Xwʹ))
(5) 
Xout = Xproj ⊙Ah ⊙Aw
(6) 
where, X denotes the input feature map, Xproj represents the feature after 
the projection layer, Xh corresponds to the vertical-direction informa­
tion of the projected features, Xw indicates the horizontal-direction in­
formation of the projected features, Xcat refers to the concatenated and 
transformed features, Xh' stands for the split vertical-direction infor­
mation, Xw' signifies the split horizontal-direction information, Ah is the 
vertical attention weight, Aw is the horizontal attention weight, and Xout 
denotes the output feature map.
Multi-scale feature fusion
The multi-scale feature fusion module aligns feature maps from 
different scales (Stage 2-4) to a unified spatial resolution via bilinear up- 
sampling, then concatenates them with the Stage 1 feature map along 
the channel dimension. A subsequent 3 × 3 convolution reduces the 
concatenated features to 256 channels, preserving semantic information 
and fine detail from each scale. This design enables the model to extract 
rich, multi-scale representations, enhancing its ability to recognize 
mango targets of varying sizes and levels of detail, and proving partic­
ularly effective in handling both large and small objects.
SOA small objective attention module (SOA)
To enhance the detection performance for small-sized mango targets 
(such as young or occluded fruits), a small-target attention module 
(Fig. 4) is designed. The module adopts a dual-branch architecture: the 
spatial detail branch employs 1 × 1 convolutions to extract local features 
and integrates dilated convolutions (dilation rate = 2) to expand the 
receptive field for contextual information incorporation; the channel 
enhancement branch generates channel weights via adaptive pooling 
and scaling operations to reinforce small-target relevant features and 
suppress background interference. The two-stream features are 
normalized via Batch Normalization (BN) and then fused, effectively 
mitigating the issue of small-target feature suppression (Eqs. 7-9). 
Xfused = BN(Conv1×1(X) + Conv3×3(d=2)(X))
(7) 
A = Sigmoid(Conv1×1(ReLU(Conv1×1(AdaptiveAvgPool2d(Xfused)))))
(8) 
Xout = Xfused ⊙A + X
(9) 
where Xfused represents the fused feature map, A corresponds to the 
attention weight map, and Xoutput indicates the output enhanced feature 
map.
BAM boundary attention module (BAM)
To address the challenge of blurred boundaries in overlapping 
mango regions that complicates segmentation, this paper designs a 
Boundary Attention Module (Fig. 5), which enhances boundary 
perception through multi-scale edge feature fusion. The module employs 
three parallel convolutional layers with dilation rates of 1, 2, and 4 to 
extract fine, medium, and coarse-grained edge features, respectively. 
After batch normalization and ReLU activation, the features are 
concatenated. A 1 × 1 convolution followed by a sigmoid function then 
generates an edge mask to highlight boundary regions. Simultaneously, 
a channel attention mechanism is incorporated to adaptively enhance 
Fig. 3. Structure of the SFE Module.
Fig. 4. Structure of the Small Target Attention Module.
W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 253 (2026) 112149 
5 

the response weights of boundary-relevant feature channels. This design 
effectively captures fine boundary details in adherent regions, signifi­
cantly improving segmentation accuracy (Eqs. 10-14). 
E1 = ReLU(BN(Conv3×3(d=1)(X)))
E2 = ReLU(BN(Conv3×3(d=2)(X)))
E3 = ReLU(BN(Conv3×3(d=4)(X)))
(10) 
Medge = Sigmoid(Conv3×3([E1; E2; E3]))
(11) 
Xedge = X ⊙Medge,
A = ChannelAttention(Xedge)
(12) 
Xatt = Xedge ⊙A
(13) 
Xout = Xatt + X
(14) 
Where, E1,E2,E3 represents the edge feature maps obtained via three 
different dilation rates; Medge corresponds to the edge attention 
weights; Xedge indicates the edge-enhanced feature map; A signifies the 
channel-wise attention weights; Xatt refers to the feature map incorpo­
rating both spatial edge enhancement and channel importance weight­
ing; and Xout denotes the output feature map.
Background suppression module
The background gating module employs a 1 × 1 convolution, batch 
normalization (BN), ReLU activation, and a sigmoid function to generate 
a gating weight (Fig. 6). This weight is multiplied with the feature map, 
effectively suppressing background features while enhancing the sa­
liency of foreground targets (mangoes). By increasing the contrast be­
tween targets and background and reducing the impact of background 
noise, the module enables the network to focus more precisely on mango 
regions, thereby improving segmentation accuracy.
Masked aggregation module
The module aims to address the feature confusion caused by densely 
clustered and adhering mangoes by using segmentation masks to guide 
feature weighting and aggregation, thereby enhancing the feature in­
dependence of individual mango masks. A 1 × 1 convolution (Conv1 ×
1 + BN + ReLU) is applied to reduce dimensionality and normalize the 
input features. Adaptive average pooling and max pooling are then used 
to extract instance-core features, followed by another 1 × 1 convolution 
to fuse the dual-pooling outputs. Simultaneously, a mask dimension- 
extension and interpolation strategy is designed to align the mask size 
with the feature map dimensions (Eqs. 15-20). 
Xproj = ReLU(BN(Conv1×1(X)))
(15) 
Mʹ = Interpolate(M, size = Xproj.shape[2 :])
(16) 
Xmasked = Xproj ⊙Mʹ
(17) 
Xavg = AdaptiveAvgPool2d(Xmasked),
Xmax
= AdaptiveMaxPool2d(Xmasked)
(18) 
Xfused = Conv1×1([Xavg; Xmax])
(19) 
Xagg = Xproj + Expand(Xfused, size = Xproj.shape)
(20) 
where M corresponds to the externally input mask, M' indicates the 
spatially aligned mask, Xmasked refers to the mask-weighted feature map, 
Xavg signifies the result of global average pooling, Xmax denotes the result 
of global max pooling, Xfused represents the fused global feature map, 
and Xagg indicates the final aggregated feature map.
Mask prediction header and refinement module
The mask prediction head outputs the final mango segmentation 
mask by integrating the core semantics and boundary information of the 
target, extracting predictions based on pixel connectivity. Acting as a 
post-processing unit, the mask refinement module employs a feature 
enhancement, weight modulation, and residual connection architecture. 
Two 3 × 3 convolutional layers are used to enhance feature represen­
tation, supported by batch normalization and ReLU activation for 
training stability, with a sigmoid function generating per-pixel refine­
ment weights at the output. A 1 × 1 convolutional residual branch is 
incorporated to preserve original features during refinement, 
Fig. 5. Structure of the Boundary Attention Module.
Fig. 6. Structure of the Background Suppression Module.
W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 253 (2026) 112149 
6 

significantly improving mask edge sharpness and detail retention (Eqs. 
21-22). 
W = Sigmoid(BN(Conv3×3(ReLU(BN(Conv3×3(X))))))
(21) 
(Conv3×3(X))))))Xout = X ⊙W + Conv1×1(X)
(22) 
Where, X represents the input feature map, W denotes the spatial 
attention weights, and Xout signifies the output feature map.
Diagonal reasoning
The calculation of the mango diagonal length is based on the refined 
instance segmentation mask. First, all non-zero pixel coordinates are 
extracted from the binarized mask to form a point set. Principal 
component analysis (PCA) is applied to this set to determine the first 
principal component direction, which corresponds to the major axis of 
the mango. All pixels are then projected onto this axis, and the two pixels 
with the maximum and minimum projection values are selected as the 
endpoints of the diagonal. The diagonal length is finally computed as the 
Euclidean distance between these endpoints. The workflow for extract­
ing this morphological feature is illustrated in Fig. 7 (Eqs. 23-28). 
P =
⎡
⎢⎢⎣
x1
y1
x2
y2
⋮
⋮
xN
yN
⎤
⎥⎥⎦,
i = 1, 2, ..., N
(23) 
v→
1 = PCA1(P) = [v1x, v1y]T
(24) 
proji = p→
i⋅v→
1 = xi⋅v1x + yi⋅v1y
(25) 
idxmin = argmini(proji),
idxmax = argmaxi(proji)
(26) 
p1 = (xidxmin, yidxmin),
p2 = (xidxmax, yidxmax)
(27) 
L =̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅
(xidxmax −xidxmin)2 + (yidxmax −yidxmin)2
√
(28) 
Among these, P represents the set of non-zero valid pixel coordinates for 
a single mango mask. v→
1 denotes the principal direction of the point set 
distribution, with v1x and v1 y being its components along the x and y 
axes, respectively. p→
i = (xi, yi) is the coordinate vector of point i within 
the set, and proji is the projection of this coordinate vector onto the 
principal direction. idxmin represents the i-value of the point with the 
smallest projection value, while idxmax denotes the point with the largest 
projection value. p1, p2 signifies the maximum length of the diagonal 
endpoint L along the principal direction, the diagonal length.
It is worth noting that during the research process, we also attempted 
to annotate the diagonal length of each mango simultaneously in 
Labelme, aiming to train a model for inferring this parameter. However, 
due to the difficulty in establishing a unified annotation rule for the 
diagonal and the lack of precise correspondence between mango in­
stances and their diagonals in the annotations, the model learning per­
formance was significantly poor. Consequently, this approach was 
ultimately abandoned.
2.2.3. Dynamic weighted hybrid loss function
To address key challenges in mango segmentation, including class 
imbalance, instance adhesion, and boundary blur, this study designs a 
dynamic segmentation loss function comprising six loss components. A 
focal cross-entropy loss with online hard example mining (weight 0.3) 
mitigates pixel-level class imbalance. A focal Dice loss (weight 0.3) en­
hances sensitivity to small targets and fine edges. The Lov´asz-Softmax 
loss (weight 0.2) directly optimizes the IoU metric. An instance- 
repulsion loss (weight 0.1) reduces merging of adjacent instances. A 
class-contrast loss (weight 0.05) strengthens inter-class feature 
discrimination, and a polygon-boundary loss (weight 0.05) refines mask 
edge accuracy. The joint optimization of these losses significantly im­
proves segmentation performance in complex scenarios.
2.3. Tracking network design
The segmentation network outputs mango masks and diagonal fea­
tures that provide fundamental target information for subsequent 
tracking and counting. However, in orchard environments, challenges 
such as dense fruit adhesion, dynamic occlusion by branches and leaves 
often lead to blurred mask boundaries and temporary target disap­
pearance. Directly inputting these segmentation results into conven­
tional tracking algorithms can easily cause ID switches, duplicate 
counts, or target loss. To address these issues, this study designs a tracker 
based on multi-feature fusion and ID lifecycle management. It integrates 
geometric, shape, and appearance features from the segmentation 
output, and establishes a feature matching priority mechanism. This 
approach enables efficient bridging between segmentation results and 
the tracking task, effectively handling the tracking challenges in com­
plex orchard scenarios. The overall architecture of the tracking network 
is illustrated in Fig. 8.
2.3.1. Instance extraction and multi-feature computation
Based on the class mask output from semantic segmentation, mango 
instances are separated through morphological processing and contour 
analysis. The specific steps are as follows: 1) Perform erosion–dilation 
morphological operations on the class mask to remove salt–and–pepper 
noise; 2) Apply a contour detection algorithm to extract object contours, 
filtering out small regions with an area below 30 pixels to eliminate 
background noise interference; 3) Calculate the minimum bounding 
rectangle of each contour to obtain the object bounding box, and refine 
contour concavities using convex hull optimization to improve the 
alignment between the bounding box and the actual shape of the mango. 
To enhance the reliability of object association and avoid the limitations 
of single–feature matching, four complementary core features are 
extracted, as detailed below: 
(1) Position features: Include bounding–box coordinates (x1, y1, x2, 
y2) and center coordinates (cx, cγ), which directly represent the 
spatial location of the target in the image and provide positional 
cues for initial matching.
(2) Shape features: Based on Hu moments, a 6–dimensional shape 
descriptor is generated through logarithmic transformation and 
Fig. 7. Diagonal Morphological Feature Calculation Flowchart.
W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 253 (2026) 112149 
7 

sign normalization. Hu moments possess rotation, scale, and 
translation invariance, effectively characterizing the intrinsic 
shape of mangoes and reducing the impact of pose variations on 
matching. The shape feature vector is denoted as [η1, η2, …, η6], 
where ηi is the normalized ith order Hu moment.
(3) Color features: Extract the histogram of the target mask region 
in HSV color space, using an 18 × 8 × 8 binning strategy to 
produce a 288–dimensional color descriptor, which is normalized 
to serve as the color feature. The HSV color space offers greater 
robustness to illumination changes compared to RGB space, 
effectively mitigating the influence of natural–scene lighting 
fluctuations on feature representation.
(4) Diagonal morphological feature: Tailored to the morphological 
characteristics of mangoes, a diagonal calculation method based 
on principal–direction analysis of the convex hull contour is 
designed, as illustrated in Fig. 7. The principal direction of the 
convex hull contour is computed via covariance analysis. This 
direction is then adapted according to the mango category (ver­
tical direction is prioritized for on–tree mangoes, horizontal di­
rection for on–ground mangoes) to ensure the diagonal 
accurately represents the target shape. The contour is projected 
along the adapted principal direction to locate the extreme points 
(p1, p2) as the diagonal endpoints, and the diagonal length L is 
computed. This feature exhibits strong representational capacity 
for variations in mango size and shape, serving as a core 
morphological feature for improving matching reliability.
The tracker, which integrates multi–feature fusion and ID lifecycle 
management, merges the geometric, shape, and appearance features 
output by the segmentation module, establishes a feature–matching 
priority mechanism, and achieves efficient coupling between segmen­
tation results and the tracking task to address the tracking challenges in 
complex orchard environments.
2.3.2. Improved kalman filter prediction module
Traditional Kalman filtering constructs the state vector solely based 
on the bounding box (x, y, w, h) and does not account for morphological 
stability of mangoes, making it susceptible to prediction errors in sce­
narios involving occlusion or subtle shape changes. This paper proposes 
an Enhanced Kalman Filter (EKT) that incorporates diagonal length into 
the state vector, optimizes the motion model and noise parameters, and 
enables joint prediction of target position and morphology, thereby 
improving prediction accuracy.
State vector and model matrix design
By integrating the motion and morphological characteristics of 
mangoes, the Kalman filter is extended in terms of its state vector, 
measurement vector, and associated matrices, as detailed below: 
(1) State vector: An 8–dimensional vector X = [x, y, w, h, L, dx, dy, 
dL]T is adopted, where (x, y) are the target center coordinates, (w, 
h) the bounding–box width and height, L the diagonal length, and 
(dx, dy, dL) their respective velocities. Compared to the con­
ventional 4–dimensional state vector, the newly added diagonal 
length and velocity terms provide a more comprehensive repre­
sentation of the target’s morphological and motion state, 
enhancing prediction robustness under varying shape conditions.
(2) Measurement vector: A 5–dimensional vector X = [x, y, w, h, 
L]T is used, corresponding to the measured position and 
morphology values output by the instance extraction module, 
enabling effective observation of the state vector.
(3) Transition matrix: Accounting for the cumulative effect of ve­
locity terms, the transition matrix Φ is designed as follows, 
ensuring that the motion characteristics of the diagonal length 
are properly modeled and that position and morphology are 
predicted jointly.
ϕ =
⎡
⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎣
1
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
⎤
⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎦
(29) 
(4) Observation matrix: A 5 × 8 matrix H is employed, which retains 
only the dimensions corresponding to the measurement vector while 
Fig. 8. Multi-Feature Fusion and ID Lifecycle Management Tracker Architecture.
W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 253 (2026) 112149 
8 

setting all other dimensions to zero, thereby achieving precise 
mapping from the state vector to the measurement vector.
H =
⎡
⎢⎢⎢⎢⎣
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
⎤
⎥⎥⎥⎥⎦
(30) 
(5) Noise matrices: Noise parameters are optimized based on the mo­
tion characteristics of mangoes, balancing prediction smoothness 
and response speed. The process noise covariance is set to Q = I8 ×
0.003 (where I8 denotes the 8 × 8 identity matrix), and the mea­
surement noise covariance is set to R = I5 × 0.03, reducing the 
impact of measurement errors on the filtering results.
Forecasting and update process
The core workflow of the Enhanced Kalman Filter comprises two 
stages, prediction and update, forming an inter–frame dynamic correc­
tion mechanism. (1) Prediction stage: Based on the historical tracking 
state and the transition matrix, the state prediction equations compute 
the prior state estimate X ˆ(k|k–1) and prior error covariance P(k|k–1) for 
the current frame, yielding the predicted bounding box, diagonal length, 
and corresponding motion velocities. (2) Update stage: When a match­
ing target is detected in the current frame, the Kalman gain Kk is 
calculated using the measurement vector Zk, and the state update 
equations correct the prior estimate to obtain the posterior state esti­
mate X ˆ(k|k) and posterior error covariance Pk|k. This dynamic correction 
of prediction errors enhances the accuracy of subsequent matching.
2.3.3. Multi-Feature Fusion Matching Module
Target association matching is the core component of the tracker, 
directly determining tracking accuracy. To address the failure of single 
IoU matching in scenarios involving occlusion and shape variations, a 
multi-feature fusion matching mechanism is designed. This mechanism 
constructs a comprehensive similarity matrix by weighting and fusing 
four types of feature similarities, and applies the Hungarian algorithm to 
achieve globally optimal matching between predicted targets and cur­
rent instances.
Feature similarity calculation
For the four extracted features—position, shape, color, and diagonal 
length—corresponding similarity calculation methods are designed to 
leverage their complementary advantages, as detailed below: 
(1) IoU Similarity (SIoU): Measures the spatial overlap between the 
predicted bounding box and the current detection bounding box, 
with a value range of [0,1]. A higher value indicates greater posi­
tional proximity. The calculation formula is:
where Bpred is the predicted bounding box, Bdet is the current 
detection bounding box, and Area(⋅) denotes the bounding box area. 
SIOU = Area(Bpred ∩Bdet)
Area(Bpred ∪Bdet)
(31) 
(2) Shape Similarity (Sshape): Computed based on the cosine distance 
of Hu moment vectors. The cosine distance is scale-insensitive, 
enhancing the robustness of shape matching. The formula is:
Sshape = 1 −
Hpred⋅Hdet⃦⃦
Hpred⃦⃦⋅‖Hdet‖
(32) 
where Hpred and Hdet are the Hu moment vectors of the predicted target 
and the current instance, respectively. ⋅denotes the dot product, ||⋅|| 
denotes the L2 norm. Sshape ranges from [0,1], with a higher value 
indicating greater shape similarity. 
(3) Color Similarity (Scolor): Calculated using the Bhattacharyya dis­
tance between HSV histograms. This distance effectively measures 
the similarity between two probability distributions, making it 
suitable for color histogram matching and robust to illumination 
variations. The formula is:
Scolor = 1 −̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅
1 −
1̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅
μpredμdet
√
⋅N
∑
N
i=1̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅
hpred(i)⋅hdet(i)
√
√
√
√
√
(33) 
where μpred and μdet represent the means of the two histograms, 
respectively. hpred(i) and hdet(i) are the frequencies of the i-th bin in the 
respective histograms, and N is the total number of bins. Scolor ranges 
from [0,1], with a higher value indicating closer color similarity. 
(4) Diagonal Similarity (S_diag): Combines category consistency and 
the ratio of diagonal lengths to ensure cross-category matching is 
invalid while leveraging the stability of diagonal length for reliable 
matching. The formula is:
Sdiag = min(Lpred, Ldet)
max(Lpred, Ldet) × δ(cpred, cdet)
(34) 
where Lpred and LDet are the diagonal lengths of the predicted target and 
current instance, respectively, and δ(⋅) is an indicator function that takes 
the value 1 when the categories are consistent, and 0 otherwise.
Weighted fusion and optimal matching
To emphasize the strong representational power of diagonal 
morphological features, the weighting strategy for four feature categories 
was optimized through extensive comparative experiments:WIOU = 0.25,
Wshape = 0.25,Wcolor = 0.2,Wdiag = 0.3. The formula for calculating the 
composite similarity a is: 
Stotal = WIOU⋅SIOU + Wshape⋅Sshape + Wcolor⋅Scolor + Wdiag⋅Sdiag
(35) 
Based on the comprehensive similarity scores, an M × N similarity 
matrix is constructed, where M is the number of predicted targets and N 
is the number of current instances. The matching problem is then 
formulated as a linear assignment problem. The Hungarian algorithm is 
employed to solve for the globally optimal matching, ensuring that the 
total matching cost between predicted targets and current instances is 
minimized. A similarity threshold of 0.5 is set; matches falling below this 
threshold are considered invalid, thereby avoiding tracking errors 
caused by incorrect associations.
2.3.4. ID Lifecycle management and stabilization module
ID switching is a core bottleneck that constrains the continuity of 
target tracking, particularly in complex scenarios such as temporary 
occlusion and missed detections between frames. To effectively mitigate 
this issue, this study designs an ID lifecycle management strategy, 
establishing a coordinated mechanism of caching, smoothing, destruc­
tion, and reuse. This approach enables dynamic control and stable 
output of ID states. Its core logic is illustrated in Fig. 9.
To balance tracking continuity and computational resource effi­
ciency, this study, through empirical testing and iterative optimization, 
has defined four core control parameters. ID_CACHE_FRAMES = 8 sets 
the threshold for caching tentative IDs, providing an observation win­
dow for newly assigned or reused IDs to avoid erroneous deletion due to 
transient detection misses; this value can be adjusted in deployment 
W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 253 (2026) 112149 
9 

based on the frequency of missed detections. ID_SMOOTH_FRAMES = 4 
governs the transition from tentative to confirmed state, requiring an ID 
to be stably present for four consecutive frames before upgrading, 
thereby effectively filtering transient noise and accommodating sce­
narios with intense illumination changes. ID_DESTROY_FRAMES = 10 
defines the destruction threshold, where IDs unmatched for ten 
consecutive frames are marked as expired and moved to an expired pool, 
preventing inactive IDs from consuming computational resources; this 
threshold can be dynamically tuned according to hardware capabilities. 
ID_REUSE_THRESH = 0.85 serves as the similarity criterion for reusing 
expired IDs; the threshold can be raised to reduce false reuse when fruit 
shapes are highly similar, or slightly lowered to increase reuse rates 
when shape variability is greater. Three ID states are defined: tentative, 
confirmed, and expired. The confirmed state enables continuous 
tracking and state updates, while the expired state follows rules for 
either reuse or permanent removal, forming a complete lifecycle.
Building on this parameter framework, the management process 
concurrently performs stabilization and adapts to different matching 
scenarios. When a match is successful, the historical ID is directly 
reused, and the Kalman filter state along with target features are 
updated to maintain tracking in the confirmed state. If the reused ID 
remains tentative, the smooth frame count is accumulated, and the ID is 
automatically upgraded once the threshold is met. In cases of no match, 
new instances are assigned a new ID and set to tentative, initiating a 
cache validation process. For historical tracking targets, the unmatched 
frame count is accumulated; if the destruction threshold is not reached, 
the ID is retained and its position is continuously predicted via the 
Kalman filter to ensure quick reconnection after occlusion, otherwise it 
is marked as expired. The process incorporates a dual stabilization 
mechanism. First, a smoothing strategy retrospectively examines the 
tracking records of the previous four frames, prioritizing the historical 
ID that appears most frequently at the same spatial location and meets a 
similarity threshold, thereby suppressing transient ID switches; this 
similarity threshold can be flexibly adjusted based on fruit density. 
Second, the preset reuse threshold is used to traverse the expired pool, 
selecting high–similarity IDs for reuse. Reused IDs are reset to tentative 
for re–validation, which reduces new ID allocations at the source and 
enhances tracking continuity and stability. 
Algorithm 1.
Illustrates the ID matching process, which takes mango 
masks and previous ID sequences as inputs and outputs the current ID 
sequence. First, valid mango instances are extracted from the input 
segmentation mask. For each instance, four core features, namely IoU, 
shape, color, and diagonal length, are computed. A similarity matrix S is 
then constructed between the current instances and the previous frame’s 
ID set. Matrix elements corresponding to instances of different cate­
gories are set to zero, while for instances of the same category, the four 
features are fused with assigned weights. Based on the cost matrix, the 
Hungarian algorithm is used to obtain the optimal matching pairs be­
tween current instances and historical IDs. Matching pairs with a simi­
larity greater than 0.5 are directly assigned the corresponding historical 
ID, while unmatched instances are temporarily assigned ID=None. For 
instances without an ID, priority is given to reusing IDs from the expired 
ID pool that exhibit high similarity. If no suitable ID is available for 
reuse, a new ID is allocated. Simultaneously, the expired ID pool is 
updated by including IDs that failed to match in the previous frame, 
completing the closed–loop ID lifecycle management. Finally, the Kal­
man filter state is updated for instances that retain an existing ID, and a 
new Kalman filter is initialized for newly assigned IDs. The IDs of all 
instances are then organized and output as the current frame’s ID 
Fig. 9. ID Lifecycle Management Process Diagram.
W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 253 (2026) 112149 
10 

sequence, achieving continuous target tracking and stable ID 
assignment.
Algorithm 1 Multi-Feature Fusion and ID Lifecycle Management for Tracking and 
Counting (MFFT) Input: Maskseg, IDsprev, IDsexpired Output: IDscurr
1: Instscurr = ExtractInstances(Maskseg)
2: for Inst in Instscurr do
3: Inst.feat = [IOU,Shape,Color,Diag]
4: end for
5: S = zeros(|Instscurr|, | IDsprev|)
6: for i ← 1 to |Instscurr| do
7: for j ← 1 to |IDsprev| do
8: S[i,j] = 0 if Instscurr[i].cls ∕=IDsprev[j].cls else w1⋅IOU + w2⋅Shape + w3⋅Color +
w4⋅Diag
9: end for
10: end for
11: matched = Hungarian (1 - S)
12: for (i,j) in matched do
13: Instscurr[i].id = IDsprev[j].id if S[i,j] > 0.5 else None
14: end for
15: for Inst in Instscurr where Inst.id is None do
16: Inst.id = ReuseID(IDsexpired, Inst.feat) or NewID()
17: end for
18: IDsexpired = IDsprev \ [Inst.id for Inst in Instscurr]
19: for Inst in Instscurr do
20: UpdateKalman(Inst) if Inst.id exists else InitKalman(Inst)
21: end for
22: IDscurr = [Inst.id for Inst in Instscurr]
Following the construction of the tracker, our method was deployed in 
mango orchards across Hainan Province. As illustrated in Fig. 10, a 
representative example is provided by extracting frames at intervals of 
two from a randomly selected tracking video. Five sequential images are 
presented to demonstrate the segmentation and tracking process. 
Mangoes on trees are delineated with blue contours and red diagonal 
lines. Corresponding blue text boxes positioned above these mangoes 
sequentially display the ID, mango variety, and diagonal pixel length. 
Conversely, mangoes on the ground are outlined with green contours 
and red diagonal lines, with green text boxes indicating their respective 
ID, variety, and diagonal pixel length. To explicitly visualize the ID 
evolution, light blue bounding boxes denote the continuous tracking of 
an individual mango with a persistent ID. Red bounding boxes signify 
the detection of a new mango instance, which is assigned a novel ID. 
Finally, black bounding boxes indicate the disappearance of a mango 
from the frame, resulting in the termination of segmentation and the 
expiration of its ID.
Our method effectively accomplishes tracking 
and ID assignment tasks. The designed ID lifecycle mechanism facilitates 
the extension of tracking longevity for individual mango instances while 
maintaining rapid responsiveness to new and existing entities. However, 
tracking-by-counting still faces a significant challenge regarding ID 
switches. In mango orchards characterized by variable shooting angles 
and severe occlusion, the disruption of motion trajectories and the 
impact of angle-dependent illumination on target appearance render ID 
switches inevitable.
To visualize this issue, a video was randomly selected and processed 
(Fig. 17). The ByteTrack tracker was applied to the same video, and 
corresponding frames were extracted for comparison. The total counts of 
two mango categories were analyzed. As illustrated in the enlarged 
cropped images, ID switching is a prevalent issue. Variations in seg­
mentation performance across different experimental runs are consid­
ered normal occurrences. Through comparison, our method assigned 
only 24 distinct IDs within the same timeframe, whereas ByteTrack 
generated 28 distinct IDs. This demonstrates the effectiveness and 
feasibility of our approach in mitigating the ID switch problem.
2.4. Experimental Setup and Evaluation Metrics
2.4.1. Hardware and software
All experiments in this study were conducted on a Windows 11 ter­
minal equipped with an AMD Ryzen 7 5800H processor and an NVIDIA 
GeForce RTX 3060 Laptop GPU (6 GB VRAM). Model training, inference, 
and computations were performed on the GPU, supported by the NVIDIA 
CUDA 11.8 toolkit. The software environment was built on Python 
3.10.19, with deep-learning model construction, training, and inference 
implemented using the PyTorch 2.7.1 framework and the TorchVision 
0.22.1 library. Image preprocessing and feature extraction relied on 
OpenCV 4.13.0, while numerical computation and data preprocessing 
were supported by NumPy 2.2.6 and Scikit-learn 1.7.2.
2.4.2. Training hyperparameters
During the training phase of the mango segmentation model, a 
suitable training configuration was established through experimental 
validation. To accommodate the 6 GB VRAM of the laptop GPU, the 
input image size was uniformly set to 256 × 256, and the batch size was 
fixed at 1. An 8–step gradient accumulation strategy was employed, 
resulting in an effective batch size of 8, which ensured stable gradient 
updates while avoiding VRAM overflow. A hierarchical learning–rate 
strategy was adopted: the global initial learning rate was set to 0.0001, 
with lower rates assigned to the backbone (0.000005 for Stage 1–2, 
0.00002 for Stage 3–4) to preserve pre–trained features, and the decoder 
kept at 0.0001 to accelerate adaptation to mango–specific characteris­
tics. The model was trained for 100 epochs using the AdamW optimizer 
(weight decay 0.0001, β1 = 0.9, β2 = 0.999) to mitigate overfitting and 
smooth gradient updates for the imbalanced sample distribution. Given 
the small training set, a combined warm–up and cosine–annealing 
learning–rate schedule was applied to prevent overfitting. A 3–epoch 
linear warm–up (start_factor = 0.01) was followed by cosine annealing 
over the remaining 97 epochs (T_max = 97, eta_min = 1e–7), allowing 
fine–tuning in later stages. Mixed–precision training (AMP) was enabled 
to improve efficiency and reduce memory consumption, and an 
Fig. 10. Randomly selected output video as an example of segmentation tracking results.
W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 253 (2026) 112149 
11 

early–stopping rule terminated training if validation metrics did not 
improve for 20 consecutive epochs, balancing convergence with 
computational efficiency.
2.4.3. Evaluation indicators
The following metrics are employed to evaluate network perfor­
mance. The assessment encompasses two categories: segmentation ac­
curacy and model efficiency. For segmentation accuracy, precision and 
recall measure the probabilities of false positives and false negatives, 
respectively: 
Precison =
TP
TP + FP
(36) 
Recall =
TP
TP + FN
(37) 
where TP is true positives (correctly classified mango samples). FP is 
false positives (background or other classes misclassified as mango). FN 
is false negatives (mango samples misclassified as background or other 
classes).
Mean Intersection over Union (mIoU) serves as a core metric 
reflecting the overlap between predicted and ground–truth masks; 
MIoU =
1
k + 1
∑
k
i=0
TPi
TPi + FPi + FNi
(38) 
where k is the number of classes (k = 1 in this study, distinguishing 
mango and background). TPi, FPi, and FNi represent the number of true 
positives, false positives, and false negatives in class i, respectively.
The F1–score balances the trade–off between precision and recall; 
F1 −score = 2 × Precison × Recall
Precison + Recall
(39) 
Mask average precision and its derivatives (mAP50, mAP50–95) 
provide a comprehensive evaluation of both localization and 
mask–generation accuracy in instance segmentation. 
mAP = 1
N
∑
N
i=1
AP(i)
(40) 
where N is the number of object classes; AP is the average precision of 
class i.
Regarding model efficiency, the number of parameters reflects model 
complexity and memory consumption, floating–point operations 
(FLOPs) quantify computational overhead, and inference frames per 
second (FPS) along with average inference time directly indicate real­
–time processing capability, ensuring suitability for mobile orchard 
deployment.
For the mango tracking task, four core metrics are selected for per­
formance assessment. The IDF1 score balances the accuracy and 
completeness of target–ID matching, suppressing ID switches: 
IDF1 = 2 ×
IDTP
IDTP + IDFP + IDFN
(41) 
where, IDTP is correctly matched IDS, IDFP is mismatched IDS, IDFN 
is unmatched GT IDS.
multiple object tracking accuracy (MOTA) integrates false–positive, 
false–negative, and ID–switch errors, serving as a key indicator of 
overall tracking performance: 
MOTA = 1 −FP + FN + IDS
GT
(42) 
where IDS is ID switches, GT is total ground-truth objects.
Multiple object tracking precision (MOTP), based on bounding–box 
overlap, quantifies the accuracy of location prediction; 
MOTP =
1
TPtotal
∑
t,i
IoU(t, i)
(43) 
where TPtotal is total true positives across all frames, IOU(t,i) is IoU 
between detection and ground truth in frame t for object i.
Tracking inference time evaluates the real–time performance of the 
tracking module, ensuring efficient operation of the full pipeline.
3. Results and discussions
3.1. Segmentation results
3.1.1. Model performance
To validate model performance, comparisons with mainstream state- 
of-the-art methods are essential. Experiments were conducted on the 
same dataset utilizing Mask R-CNN, Mask2Former, DETR, and YOLOv8 
s, all of which are widely adopted advanced methods for crop segmen­
tation and recognition. The experimental results for various metrics are 
presented in Table 1. Our method demonstrates outstanding compre­
hensive performance. It achieves the highest Precision of 0.82 among all 
models, indicating a lower false detection rate, while also attaining an 
excellent Recall of 0.78, which validates its capability to effectively 
identify the vast majority of mango targets. Our mAP50 and mAP50_95 
scores are 0.67 and 0.33, respectively. These values are close to the 
scores of 0.69 and 0.36 achieved by Mask R-CNN, suggesting perfor­
mance approaching that of mature instance segmentation models. 
Furthermore, our method comprehensively surpasses Mask2Former in 
mIoU and F1 score, reaching 0.71 and 0.73 respectively, which reflects 
high pixel-level accuracy. Although DETR and YOLOv8 s exhibit higher 
mAP metrics, with mAP50 scores of 0.78 and 0.84 respectively, and 
superior recall rates—attesting to their robust instance segmentation 
capabilities—our method offers greater practical value by balancing 
segmentation accuracy with inference speed. With an inference time of 
25.67 milliseconds, our approach is significantly faster than mainstream 
models such as YOLOv8 s and DETR. Notably, this model prioritizes 
pixel-level segmentation accuracy in complex occluded orchard sce­
narios, focusing on boundary and small-object feature extraction rather 
than maximizing detection mAP. Thus, its mAP50 and mAP50_95 are 
lower than YOLOv8 s and DETR. To ensure segmentation robustness, we 
use the Swin-T backbone and multi-attention modules, resulting in 
slightly higher parameters and computation, leading to inferior perfor­
mance in some localization metrics. Therefore, enhancing segmentation 
performance remains the primary focus of our future research Table 2.
We analyze the mechanisms behind the metric differences. YOLOv8 
and DETR achieve higher detection mAP. However, our method obtains 
better mIoU and F1 scores. The root cause is that our BAM effectively 
enhances edge responses in adhesive regions. The background gating 
module suppresses the weights of interfering features such as soil and 
weeds. YOLO-style models focus on bounding box classification. They 
lack sufficient modeling of boundary pixels for adhesive mangoes. This 
leads to missed detections of small occluded fruits. DETR tends to over- 
predict and generate redundant masks. The pixel-level segmentation 
defects of both model types directly cause counting errors. Our model 
achieves faster inference speed than Mask R-CNN and DETR. This ben­
efits from the hierarchical feature extraction efficiency of the Swin-T 
backbone and the lightweight design of our custom decoder. These 
features ensure accuracy while avoiding redundant computations.
To evaluate the performance of the segmentation network, valida­
tion visualization images were generated at each epoch during the 
model verification phase. Representative images from diverse environ­
ments are presented here. Mangoes on trees are overlaid with blue 
masks, and corresponding blue text boxes positioned above display the 
ID, mango variety, and diagonal pixel length. Conversely, mangoes on 
the ground are overlaid with green masks, with green text boxes indi­
cating their ID and variety. Red lines delineate the diagonal of each 
W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 253 (2026) 112149 
12 

mango, and the pixel length is annotated above these lines. Note that the 
IDs are assigned per image. The top-right corner of each image sum­
marizes the count of mangoes per category and the total count. Selected 
representative environmental scenarios from the validation set are 
visualized in Fig. 11 to demonstrate the classification and segmentation 
efficacy. From left to right, the scenarios include close-range sparse 
Table 1 
Comparison of segmentation results based on different advanced methods.
Model
Precision
Recall
mIoU
F1
mAP50
mAP50_95
Param
FLOPs
FPS
Infer_time(ms)
MaskRCNN
0.78
0.80
-
-
0.69
0.36
43.93
401.74
6.28
159.34
Mask2former
0.72
0.77
0.64
0.67
0.63
0.30
54.54
20.58
10.36
96.50
DETR
0.75
0.85
-
-
0.78
0.40
36.96
9.53
21.77
45.94
YOLOv8s
0.79
0.81
-
-
0.84
0.47
11.8211
20.172
24.88
41.40
Ours
0.82
0.78
0.71
0.73
0.67
0.33
33.77
41.86
40.32
25.67
Table 2 
Ablation experiment results based on attention modules.
MIoU
F1
mAP50
mAP50_95
Param (M)
FLOPs (G)
FPS
Infer_time(ms)
No Attention
0.64
0.65
0.55
0.23
31.04
28.98
41.43
23.88
Attention-Deficit Module
0.69
0.71
0.61
0.29
32.01
27.62
40.33
24.80
Attention CBAM
0.67
0.68
0.57
0.25
31.32
43.37
48.36
22.40
Attention SE
0.64
0.67
0.59
0.27
33.76
41.83
44.51
22.50
Ours
0.71
0.73
0.67
0.33
33.77
41.86
40.32
25.67
Fig. 11. Visualization Results of the Segmentation Network.
W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 253 (2026) 112149 
13 

distribution, close-range dense distribution, long-range sparse distribu­
tion, long-range dense distribution, and low-light conditions during 
dusk. These visualizations collectively demonstrate that our network 
achieves superior segmentation performance across various environ­
mental conditions.
To provide a more intuitive reflection of the regions of interest 
within the images processed by the neural network, the Grad-CAM 
method was employed for analysis. In the Grad-CAM visualizations, 
red regions indicate the highest level of network attention, followed by 
green, while blue denotes areas of low attention. Superior recognition 
performance is indicated if the red regions accurately overlay the mango 
targets. As illustrated in Fig. 12, our method demonstrates precise focus 
on the mangoes, with red activations concentrated within the target 
regions and minimal interference from the background. Among the 
comparative methods, DETR also exhibits accurate attention allocation 
but demonstrates insufficient focus on certain ground mangoes. 
YOLOv8s displays relatively limited attention regions. In contrast, Mask 
R-CNN and Mask2Former are susceptible to background interference, 
characterized by extensive green activation areas.
3.1.2. Ablation experiment
To validate the efficacy of the proposed attention module, ablation 
studies were conducted by modifying the attention mechanism. Four 
network configurations were trained and evaluated: a baseline network 
Fig. 12. Grad-CAM Visualization Results for Different Advanced Methods.
W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 253 (2026) 112149 
14 

without any attention mechanisms, a network with the SOA, BAM, and 
BG modules removed (located between feature fusion and mask pre­
diction), and networks where the attention module was replaced with 
the popular CBAM and SE modules.
The results demonstrate that the network incorporating our designed 
attention module achieves the highest mIoU and mAP50 scores of 0.71 
and 0.73, respectively. Despite the increased computational complexity, 
this configuration yields the most superior segmentation performance. 
The network with reduced modules follows, achieving an mIoU of 0.69 
and an mAP50 of 0.61, while the network without attention performs 
the poorest. Although the SE and CBAM modules are not specifically 
tailored to our scenario, they still yield performance improvements. The 
SE method achieves an mAP50 of 0.59, and the CBAM method achieves 
an mIoU of 0.67, reflecting their general applicability.
The Grad-CAM method was similarly employed to visualize the 
ablation experiments of the attention module. As illustrated in the 
Fig. 13, the network without attention mechanisms suffers from severe 
background interference, focusing extensively on background regions. 
Fig. 13. Grad-CAM Visualization Results for Different Attention Modules.
W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 253 (2026) 112149 
15 

The network with only the SOA, BAM, and BG modules removed suc­
cessfully focuses on mango regions but remains susceptible to interfer­
ence from ground areas. The network utilizing the SE attention module 
also focuses on a significant number of leaves. While the network uti­
lizing the CBAM attention module demonstrates good focus, the red 
activation areas within the mango regions are sparse, indicating lower 
attention compared to our method. These results collectively demon­
strate that the attention module designed in our method plays a signif­
icant role in enhancing recognition capabilities.
The selection of the backbone network is crucial for model perfor­
mance. To validate the correctness of choosing the Swin Transformer 
Tiny (Swin-T) backbone, we conducted comparative experiments by 
replacing the backbone. We selected the high-performance and widely 
used CNN backbones EfficientNet-B0, EfficientNetV2-S, Mobile­
Net_v3_large, and ConvNeXt_T for substitution. A total of four networks 
were trained and evaluated. The results, as presented in Table 3, 
demonstrate that our method achieves the highest segmentation met­
rics, including MIoU and mAP50, indicating superior segmentation 
performance. Other networks with alternative backbones exhibit ad­
vantages in terms of efficiency. Specifically, EfficientNet-B0 achieves an 
inference time of only 6.14 milliseconds. Additionally, ConvNeXt_T 
demonstrates favorable performance with an mAP50 of 0.61 and an 
inference time of 10.98 milliseconds. However, a significant gap re­
mains between the segmentation metrics of these alternatives and our 
proposed method.
The Grad-CAM method was utilized to visualize the backbone abla­
tion experiments. As illustrated in Fig. 14, the EfficientNet-B0 network 
exhibits high attention to mango regions but suffers from significant 
interference from soil and foliage. The EfficientNetV2-S network dem­
onstrates concentrated activations on mangoes and reduces interference 
from distant backgrounds, yet interference in close-range scenes is 
exacerbated. Although MobileNet_v3_large and ConvNeXt_T achieve 
substantial coverage of mango regions with high attention, they still 
manifest considerable background activation and erroneous attention 
allocation. In contrast, our method effectively suppresses interference, 
maintaining focus primarily on the mango targets. These results sub­
stantiate that the integration of the Swin-T backbone within our method 
constitutes the optimal architectural choice.
Ablation experiments were subsequently conducted on the decoder, 
mask head, and boundary refinement module. As the decoder and mask 
head serve as essential basic components for segmentation and cannot 
be directly removed, we performed comparisons by replacing them with 
same-level alternative structures. For the decoder, the baseline adopted 
a simple upsampling decoder that only uses deconvolution for feature 
reconstruction, which is structurally simple and lacks multi-scale feature 
interaction and fusion capabilities. For the mask head, the baseline used 
a lightweight original mask head that only performs mask prediction 
through basic convolutions, lacking boundary constraints and scene 
adaptability. The boundary refinement module was validated by a 
controlled variable strategy (direct embedding or removal) to verify its 
refinement effect on blurry boundaries between fruits, branches, leaves, 
and weeds. The ablation results are presented in Table S1.
It can be observed that segmentation performance improves steadily 
as the decoder, mask head, and refinement module are gradually 
incorporated. The baseline model with a simple pixel decoder, basic 
mask head, and no refinement module achieves an MIoU of 0.67, F1 of 
0.69, mAP50 of 0.63, with 32.17 M parameters and 41.22 FPS. After 
replacing it with the custom Transformer decoder, all metrics are 
significantly improved. Adding the improved mask head further en­
hances precision. The final model, equipped with the custom decoder, 
dedicated mask head, and boundary refinement module, achieves the 
best segmentation performance with an MIoU of 0.71, F1 of 0.73, and 
mAP50 of 0.67. Although the number of parameters increases to 33.77 
M, the inference speed remains 40.32 FPS with only a slight drop, 
achieving a favorable balance between accuracy and efficiency. The 
results validate the synergistic benefits of the proposed modules.
To facilitate a deeper understanding of the network operational 
principles and enhance the interpretability of the deep learning mech­
anism, feature maps from various layers of the model were selectively 
visualized. These feature maps are presented as heatmaps to provide an 
intuitive representation of which regions are prioritized during propa­
gation and to observe the efficacy of each module. As illustrated in 
Fig. 15, the visualization includes the original input image, the Grad- 
CAM output, and feature maps from different stages. Feature maps 
from layers 0 through 7 of the Swin-T backbone were selected to 
comprehensively demonstrate the feature evolution throughout the 
backbone, encompassing processes such as convolution, normalization, 
transformation, and patch merging. Subsequent visualization of the 
coordinate attention within the SFE and feature projection modules, 
along with the feature fusion heatmaps, reveals a progressive refinement 
of the captured features.
The SOA heatmap illustrates the prioritized capture of small target 
features. The BAM heatmap exhibits distinct mango contours, demon­
strating robust boundary feature extraction capabilities. The Mask Head 
layer successfully extracts complete mango features, while the 
MaskRefineModule layer further refines these features to achieve a 
complete separation between the mango targets and the background.
Notably, perspective and shooting distance change continuously 
during orchard video collection, leading to significant appearance var­
iations of the same mango across consecutive frames. To objectively 
evaluate the accuracy of the PCA–based diagonal calculation, this study 
randomly selected 240 valid and independent mango samples from test 
videos, covering diverse growth postures. Samples were divided into 
four groups according to occlusion levels: no occlusion, slight occlusion, 
moderate occlusion, and severe occlusion, so as to quantitatively 
analyze the effects of posture, perspective, and occlusion on measure­
ment accuracy. Taking manually annotated diagonals as ground truth, 
the average relative error of each group was calculated, and the results 
are presented in Table S2.
It is evident that, after eliminating the interference of fruit contour 
adhesion, perspective switching, shooting distance, and posture deflec­
tion have little influence on PCA principal direction fitting, with only a 
limited increase in error. The main source of error is contour incom­
pleteness caused by branch and leaf occlusion, which induces small 
deviations in the external diagonal. Overall, the proposed PCA–based 
diagonal method can adapt to dynamic orchard environments and 
maintains stable accuracy under regular conditions, providing reliable 
geometric features for fruit size statistics and yield estimation.
3.2. Tracking Count Results
To evaluate the efficacy of our approach, this study conducted a 
Table 3 
Ablation experiment results based on different backbone networks.
MIoU
F1
mAP50
mAP50_95
Param (M)
FLOPs (G)
FPS
Infer_time(ms)
EfficientNet-B0
0.68
0.69
0.60
0.29
8.34
28.32
162.77
6.14
EfficientNetV2-S
0.67
0.68
0.59
0.26
24.88
113.29
37.83
26.44
Mobilenet_v3_large
0.65
0.66
0.57
0.25
8.89
109.12
65.41
15.29
ConvNeXt_T
0.68
0.69
0.61
0.28
8.34
28.32
91.05
10.98
Ours
0.71
0.73
0.67
0.33
33.77
41.86
40.32
25.67
W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 253 (2026) 112149 
16 

systematic performance comparison and assessment of the proposed 
Multi-Feature Fusion Tracking algorithm against three current main­
stream tracking algorithms, namely ByteTrack, DeepSORT, and 
StrongSORT, on the tasks of mango counting and biomass estimation in 
orchards. Our comparison is based on video data from forty data points. 
The results are presented in the form of scatter plots and comprehensive 
performance quantification tables as follows.
In the counting task, the regression equation of the MFFT algorithm 
exhibits a slope of 1.04, which is the closest to the ideal y equals x 
baseline. Combined with a goodness of fit of R squared equals 0.98, this 
indicates a high degree of agreement between the counting results and 
the ground truth values. In contrast, the regression slopes of ByteTrack, 
DeepSORT, and StrongSORT are 0.65, 0.55, and 0.50 respectively, 
deviating significantly from 1 and exhibiting large intercept terms. This 
reflects a systematic bias of underestimation prevalent in these algo­
rithms. In terms of error metrics, the RMSE, MAE, and MRE of MFFT are 
12.95, 8.75, and 4.30 percent respectively, all of which are substantially 
lower than those of other algorithms. Notably, the MRE of StrongSORT 
is as high as 74.39 percent, further highlighting the superiority of MFFT 
in counting accuracy. The scatter distribution in Fig. 16 intuitively 
shows that MFFT consistently adheres closely to the y equals x diagonal, 
whereas other algorithms gradually deviate from the baseline as the true 
Fig. 14. Grad-CAM Visualization Results for Different Attention Modules.
W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 253 (2026) 112149 
17 

values increase, validating the analytical conclusions.
In the biomass estimation task, Fig. 19 and Table 4 present the results 
of biomass prediction based on diagonal length. MFFT demonstrates 
optimal performance with a regression equation of y equals 8.28x minus 
3.24. A goodness of fit of R squared equals 0.99 and an MRE of only 4.49 
percent indicate extremely high reliability in predicting mango biomass. 
Compared to other algorithms, the regression slopes of ByteTrack, 
DeepSORT, and StrongSORT are 4.53, 3.62, and 3.02 respectively. These 
slopes are not only much lower than that of MFFT but also accompanied 
by larger intercept terms, leading to overall lower biomass estimates. 
The visualization results in Fig. 19 further corroborate this point. The 
fitting line of MFFT maintains the closest linear relationship with the 
true values, whereas the fitting lines of other algorithms gradually move 
away from the baseline as the diagonal length increases, showing a 
distinct error accumulation effect. Furthermore, the RMSE and MAE of 
MFFT in biomass estimation are 6.09 and 4.79 respectively, significantly 
Fig. 15. Visualization results of feature maps from different modules in the network.
Fig. 16. A visual comparison of our method's counting results with those of three other popular tracking algorithms.
W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 253 (2026) 112149 
18 

outperforming other algorithms. This demonstrates that the proposed 
algorithm possesses superior robustness when handling biomass pre­
diction in complex scenarios. Videos S1–S4 present actual tracking re­
sults comparing our method (MFFT) with three other tracking methods 
(https://drive.google.com/file/d/1rq3JMPvyGqToX7­
yekm7z_zgyh8k7LVc3/view?usp = sharing). It is clear that our method 
achieves the best tracking performance. The MFFT counting error is only 
4.30 percent. This is much lower than other baselines such as ByteTrack. 
The significantly lower counting error can be attributed to two factors. 
First, the diagonal feature provides stable characterization of mango 
morphology. This effectively alleviates matching deviations caused by 
viewpoint changes. Second, the ID lifecycle management mechanism 
filters out miscounts caused by transient missed detections through 
caching and smoothing strategies. These two mechanisms jointly 
improve the accuracy of cross-frame association.
For the task of classifying and counting mangoes on trees versus 
those on the ground, the comparative analysis in Table 5 and Fig. 18
reveals discrepancies in scenario adaptability among different algo­
rithms. Based on video data comprising thirty data points, MFFT ach­
ieves regression equations of y equals 1.13x minus 10.75 with an R 
Fig. 17. Comparison of Our Method with ByteTrack's Visualization Results.
Fig. 18. Visualization of data points in Table 5 (a) MFFT (our method) (b) ByteTrack.
W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 253 (2026) 112149 
19 

squared value of 0.98 for tree mangoes, and y equals 1.01x plus 1.01 
with an R squared value of 0.99 for ground mangoes. The slopes of both 
equations are close to 1, and error metrics, such as an MRE of only 3.36 
percent for ground mangoes, indicate that the algorithm maintains high 
precision across both scenarios. In contrast, the ByteTrack algorithm 
yields a regression slope of only 0.47 and an MRE as high as 24.36 
percent for ground mangoes, reflecting poor adaptability to ground 
scenarios characterized by occlusion and complex backgrounds. The 
scatter plot comparison in Fig. 18 demonstrates that MFFT adheres 
closely to the y equals x baseline in both scenarios, whereas ByteTrack 
results for ground mangoes deviate significantly from the diagonal, 
further validating the generalization capability of MFFT in complex 
environments.
In summary, the series of comparative experiments comprehensively 
validate the superiority of the proposed MFFT algorithm across multiple 
dimensions, including global counting accuracy, biomass estimation 
precision, and adaptability to specific scenarios. MFFT not only 
Table 4 
Comparison of our method with count/biomass estimates from three other popular tracking algorithms.
Method
Regression equation
FPS
R2
RMSE
MAE
MRE (%)
Ours (MFFT)
Counting
y = 1.04x -4.08
13.26
0.98
12.95
8.75
4.30
Biomass estimation
y = 8.28x -3.24
0.99
6.09
4.79
4.49
ByteTrack
Counting
y = 0.65x + 36.88
31.90
-
113.49
93.78
29.19
Biomass estimation
y = 4.53x + 15.30
0.97
8.99
7.74
8.35
DeepSORT
Counting
y = 0.55x + 50.65
20.02
-
165.51
134.95
41.31
Biomass estimation
y = 3.62x + 27.34
0.96
9.88
8.42
10.39
StrongSORT
Counting
y = 0.50x + 28.20
16.93
-
248.57
219.70
74.39
Biomass estimation
y = 3.02x + 27.74
0.96
8.47
7.31
10.86
Fig. 19. Comparison of biomass estimates from our method versus three other popular tracking algorithms.
Table 5 
Analysis of Results Evaluating Mango Quantities on Trees and on the Ground 
Using ByteTrack and MFFT Algorithms
Method
Category
Regression 
equation
R2
RMSE
MAE
MRE 
(%)
Ours 
(MFFT)
On the tree
y = 1.13x - 
10.75
0.98
8.92
7.29
6.37
On the 
ground
y = 1.01x +
1.01
0.99
1.10
0.94
3.36
ByteTrack
On the tree
y = 0.66x - 
1.15
0.92
13.27
10.81
10.78
On the 
ground
y = 0.47x +
11.14
0.94
4.89
4.07
24.36
Table 6 
Results of MOT Methods in test videos.
MOTA
MOTP
IDF1
Inference Time (ms)
MFFT(Ours)
0.6513
0.6366
0.7075
75.36
ByteTrack
0.6117
0.6308
0.6684
29.82
DeepSORT
0.5501
0.6260
0.6373
47.02
StrongSORT
0.4995
0.5963
0.5225
58.91
W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 253 (2026) 112149 
20 

significantly outperforms mainstream comparative algorithms across all 
core quantitative metrics but also provides a reliable and efficient so­
lution for precise fruit monitoring and yield assessment in complex or­
chard environments through stable ID management and accurate feature 
fusion mechanisms.
To compare tracker performance, we evaluated multiple MOT 
methods on our captured video dataset. We selected ByteTrack, Deep­
SORT, and StrongSORT as alternative trackers, integrating them with 
our segmentation network to perform tracking and counting tasks. The 
experimental results are presented in Table 6. Our method demonstrates 
superior adaptability and efficacy in tracking and counting mangoes 
within the complex and dynamic environment of orchards, achieving an 
MOTA of 0.6513, an MOTP of 0.6366, and an IDF1 of 0.7075. Strong­
SORT exhibits suboptimal performance with an MOTA of only 0.4995. 
While ByteTrack demonstrates inferior overall performance compared 
to MFFT, its inference time of merely 29.82 milliseconds validates its 
high computational efficiency. Among all methods, our approach incurs 
the longest inference time, which represents a primary direction for 
future optimization.
To facilitate superior visualization of the segmentation, tracking, and 
counting results generated by MFFT, frames were extracted at intervals 
of ten from a randomly selected output tracking video. A sequence of 
eight images is presented, commencing at frame t and concluding at 
frame t + 70. As illustrated in Fig. 20, the comprehensive tracking 
process of our method is demonstrated, fully showcasing mango classi­
fication and segmentation, diagonal length calculation, and tracking- 
based counting. The visualization confirms that our segmentation 
approach achieves high fidelity on target mangoes, providing a robust 
foundation for tracking and counting within complex and dynamic en­
vironments. Furthermore, the tracker maintains stable and continuous 
tracking of target mangoes while responding effectively to the appear­
ance of new instances and the disappearance of existing ones. However, 
it is noteworthy that within such complex environments, our method 
exhibits instances of incomplete segmentation and ID switching. These 
aspects represent critical areas requiring further enhancement in future 
research.
To verify the improvement of morphological constraints on Kalman 
filtering, we kept other components and association strategies un­
changed under the unified tracking framework, and only compared the 
traditional Kalman filter with the improved Kalman filter proposed in 
this study. Tracking performance was evaluated using MOTA, MOTP, 
and IDF1, and the average single-frame inference time was recorded to 
quantify the robustness and efficiency of the two filtering methods. The 
results are shown in Table S3.
As can be seen from Table S3, under the same front-end segmentation 
and matching strategy, the traditional Kalman filter achieves lower 
tracking metrics. It relies only on position and scale information, making 
it difficult to adapt to morphological fluctuations caused by perspective 
changes, mango posture variations, and occlusions in orchards. This 
easily leads to prediction deviation, matching errors, and ID switches, 
resulting in lower MOTA and IDF1. In contrast, the improved Kalman 
filter integrates diagonal morphological features, which significantly 
enhances tracking accuracy and ID stability. It only introduces a slight 
increase in computational cost without compromising real-time 
Fig. 20. Visualization results of mango counting in the test video.
W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 253 (2026) 112149 
21 

performance, thus meeting the requirements of real-time mango 
tracking in orchards.
3.3. Compared with other studies
Compared with other studies on fruit visual detection in orchards, 
the MFFT method proposed in this work exhibits superior adaptability to 
complex scenarios and more comprehensive functional integration 
(Table 7). Most existing research targets crops like strawberries, apples, 
passion fruits and kiwifruits, adopting methods such as Mask R-CNN and 
YOLO to realize single or partial functions including instance segmen­
tation, detection-tracking-counting and segmentation-3D localization, 
with mAP ranging from 0.82 to 0.95. However, these methods are only 
suitable for sparse or moderately occluded orchard environments and 
lack the key function of biomass estimation. For mango detection, the 
existing YOLO combined with centroid tracking merely achieves simple 
detection and tracking under mild occlusion, with limited 0.76 MOTA. 
In contrast, MFFT is specially designed for on-tree and on-ground 
mangoes in extremely occluded scenarios, integrating segmentation, 
tracking, counting and biomass estimation into a complete pipeline. It 
achieves a segmentation mIoU of 0.71 with an inference speed of 40.32 
FPS, and controls the global counting relative error at 4.30% and 
biomass estimation error at only 4.49%, breaking the limitations of 
existing studies in scenario adaptability and functional completeness.
3.4. Discussion
3.4.1. Advantages
This study presents a comprehensive integrated framework for seg­
mentation, tracking, counting, and biomass estimation tailored to 
mango orchard environments. Extensive experiments demonstrate that 
our method yields promising results. The dataset in this study features 
typical field complexity, including dense mangoes with heavy occlusion 
and strong interference from bare soil, weeds, branches, leaves, and 
uneven illumination. All data are collected from real orchards. 
Accordingly, the proposed method is specially optimized for complex 
scenes via background gating, boundary attention, and multi-scale 
feature fusion to suppress noise and reduce false detection. Quantita­
tive results confirm that complex backgrounds significantly affect seg­
mentation and tracking performance, demonstrating the necessity of our 
dataset and algorithm design.
In the segmentation component, this study employs a custom- 
designed architecture combining pixel-level semantic segmentation 
with connected component pseudo-instance extraction. This approach 
precisely fulfills the core requirements of mango counting and biomass 
estimation in orchards. The model balances pixel-level and instance- 
level performance, achieving outstanding metrics such as MIoU and 
F1 scores in semantic segmentation. By extracting pseudo-instances via 
connected component analysis, the model achieves a mask mAP 
approaching that of mainstream instance segmentation models like 
Mask R-CNN, providing a sufficient foundation for precise counting 
tasks.
In the tracking and counting component, the designed tracker ex­
hibits superior stability and accuracy compared to mainstream models 
like ByteTrack within the complex scenarios of mango orchards. 
Addressing typical orchard tasks, the tracker distinguishes between on- 
tree and ground mangoes based on segmentation results, enabling 
continuous tracking and independent counting for different categories. 
By fusing multi-dimensional features including position, shape, color, 
and diagonal morphology, the model maintains stable tracking of indi­
vidual mango features. Combined with an ID lifecycle management 
mechanism, this effectively suppresses ID switches and duplicate 
counting. Furthermore, the tracker supports accuracy analysis based on 
mango density distribution within single images, allowing for error 
calibration in high-density clustered regions and low-density isolated 
regions. This compensates for potential errors in the segmentation 
module during occlusion, further enhancing overall counting precision 
to better suit practical operational needs.
In the biomass estimation component, the module is logically highly 
aligned with core task requirements. Compared to traditional detection 
box-based counting, this system utilizes diagonal features extracted 
from segmentation results to construct the estimation model, offering 
greater practicality and accuracy. Selecting diagonal length over mask 
area effectively reduces the impact of minor mask fluctuations on 
biomass estimation and facilitates standard unit calibration. The system 
explicitly distinguishes between tree-hanging and ground mangoes. 
Considering that ground mangoes do not directly contribute to yield 
prediction, separately counting the quantity and biomass of these two 
categories provides more targeted data support for yield assessment, 
harvesting scheduling, and management decisions. Additionally, this 
estimation scheme requires no additional size annotation, integrating 
seamlessly with segmentation and tracking to realize a unified workflow 
from segmentation and tracking to biomass estimation, efficiently 
outputting data required for orchard yield prediction.
Notably, in preliminary experiments, we evaluated mainstream 
instance segmentation models such as YOLOv8s and DETR but identified 
inherent limitations that are difficult to circumvent. Visualization of 
segmentation results on randomly selected images, as shown in Fig. 21, 
compares our method with DETR and YOLOv8s under identical input 
conditions, illustrating their respective limitations. Red boxes indicate 
missed detections, orange boxes indicate over-prediction, and light blue 
boxes indicate adhesion. Results show that while the YOLOv8 model is 
efficient and accurate in clear scenarios, it adopts a conservative pre­
diction strategy for mangoes with blurred features, partial occlusion, or 
uneven lighting, directly discarding such targets and leading to missed 
detections (Fig. 21b). When paired with a tracker for video processing, 
YOLOv8 suffers from rough mask shapes and significant latency be­
tween mask changes and dynamic video frame variations, compromising 
tracking coherence. Conversely, DETR exhibits a tendency for over- 
inference, forcing complete fruit contours based on minimal visible 
Table 7 
Compared with other studies.
Object
Network
Performance
Scene complexity
Function
Ref.
Strawberry
Mask R-CNN/ 
TensorRT
0.83mAP, 25.46 FPS
Sparse planting in the 
greenhouse
Instance Segmentation
(Crespo et al., 2025)
Apple
MCA-YOLO
0.95 mAP, 0.76 mm error
Moderate shading
Segmentation, 3D positioning
(Zhou, et al., 
2025a,2025b)
Mango
YOLO
0.93mAP, 0.76MOTA
Light shading
Testing, tracking
(Pichhika et al., 
2025)
Passion fruit
YOLOv8n +
OCSORT + CRCM
0.83mAP, 87% accuracy in counting
Moderate shading
Detection, Tracking, Counting
(Tu et al., 2025)
Kiwi fruit
TCA-YOLOv5s
0.87 mAP, 94% accuracy in counting
Light shading
Detection, Tracking, Counting
(Zhang, et al., 
2025a,2025b)
Apple
YOLOv8n
0.89 mAP,0.85R2
Moderate shading
Detection, Tracking, Counting
(Zhai et al., 2025)
Mango (tree and 
ground)
MFFT
mIoU = 0.71; 40.32 FPS; Counting error 
4.30%; Biomass estimation error 4.49%;
Extremely shading
Segmentation, Tracking, 
Counting, Biomass Estimation
This work
W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 253 (2026) 112149 
22 

Fig. 21. Visual Comparison Analysis of Our Method with DETR and YOLOv8s.
Fig. 22. Schematic Diagram of Undetected Leaks and Incomplete Segmentation in Light-Shaded Areas.
W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 253 (2026) 112149 
23 

corners of occluded mangoes (Fig. 21c). This often results in masks being 
drawn over adjacent mangoes or foliage, causing artificially inflated 
fruit counts. These defects directly undermine counting accuracy. In 
contrast, our model effectively circumvents these issues through precise 
pixel-level segmentation capabilities, providing a reliable basis for 
counting (Fig. 21a). Compared to the systematic estimation biases 
caused by YOLOs missed detections or DETRs over-predictions, our 
model leverages the complete pixel coverage of the segmentation 
module. Even if diagonal measurements for individual mangoes contain 
errors due to adhesion, the model can balance these deviations through 
population characteristics, resulting in estimation results of higher 
reference value.
3.4.2. Limitations and Potential Improvements
This study acknowledges the following limitations. First, the seg­
mentation component suffers from inherent limitations of semantic 
segmentation, particularly in high-density scenarios. In conditions of 
dense mango aggregation and severe mutual occlusion, connected 
component analysis tends to merge multiple fruits into a single instance. 
This leads to blurred instance boundaries and an inability to achieve 
precise individual delineation, thereby compromising the accuracy of 
diagonal measurements, the reliability of tracking feature matching, and 
counting precision. As illustrated in Fig. 22, our method is prone to 
misidentifying clustered mangoes as a single entity and exhibits issues 
with missed detections and incomplete segmentation under poor light­
ing conditions. Future improvements should prioritize segmentation 
accuracy. Potential strategies include adopting a hybrid architecture 
combining semantic segmentation with a lightweight instance branch, 
such as integrating CenterNet to assist connected component analysis. 
Additionally, expanding the dataset to include high-density and extreme 
lighting scenarios is necessary to enhance generalization. Alternatively, 
transitioning to a pure instance segmentation model utilizing advanced 
Transformer architectures with query mechanisms, or improving upon 
existing methods to mitigate YOLO missed detections or DETR over- 
predictions, could further reduce errors.
Second, the tracker’s performance is heavily reliant on segmentation 
results, leading to insufficient stability in extreme scenarios. Segmen­
tation errors indirectly cause ID switches and misassignments. 
Furthermore, relying solely on basic visual features can result in re- 
identification failures during rapid mango movement or instantaneous 
full occlusion, leading to decreased tracking precision. Minor latency in 
module coordination also affects video stream synchronization. To 
address this, future work should capture richer mango appearance fea­
tures and integrate advanced ReID methods. Moreover, transforming the 
separate segmentation and tracking processes into a joint framework 
with bidirectional feedback mechanisms—where tracking precision in­
forms 
the 
segmentation 
model—could 
significantly 
improve 
performance.
Third, biomass estimation is constrained by the limitations of 2D 
vision, introducing multiple systematic errors. Relying solely on diago­
nal length requires establishing a simplified and incomplete corre­
spondence with biomass. Without access to 3D dimensions or spatial 
poses, measurement biases arise from varying shooting angles and 
irregular fruit morphologies, resulting in lower accuracy compared to 
3D methods. Additionally, diagonal measurement precision is directly 
affected by mask quality, with edge offsets, flickering, or adhesion 
causing calculation errors. While the 2D approach could be refined by 
incorporating more reference features, a more advanced solution in­
volves introducing lightweight binocular camera modules to acquire 3D 
point cloud data. Combining multi-dimensional 2D features with 3D 
data would compensate for precision defects, enabling single-tree 
identification and tree-to-ground ratio statistics to support refined 
yield estimation.
In summary, the proposed segmentation tracking biomass estimation 
model holds promising application prospects. All experimental samples 
in this study were naturally bagged mangoes compliant with orchard 
standards. Although bagging alters fruit boundary features, the dataset 
retains key challenges such as leaf occlusion, fruit overlapping, and 
uneven illumination, making it highly consistent with real production 
scenarios and of great engineering application value. We also will add 
non-bagged data to further improve the generalization ability of the 
algorithm. Future research should strengthen the integration of its 
components, conduct experiments across diverse orchard environments, 
and collect data throughout the entire mango growth cycle to provide 
precise support for yield prediction and field management. We will also 
incorporate cross-validation methods and an external validation dataset 
to improve the model's robustness. In addition, the modular architecture 
of our method provides a foundation for cross-crop transfer. The 
attention mechanism in the segmentation module can adapt to the 
appearance features of different crops. The multi-feature fusion frame­
work in the tracking module can be replaced with crop-specific 
morphological indicators such as fruit diameter and fruit shape index. 
We will conduct multi-crop validation experiments in future work to 
further verify its generalization capability.
4. Conclusion
This study proposes a Multi-Feature Fusion Tracking (MFFT) 
framework for multi-class mango segmentation, stable ID tracking, and 
biomass estimation in complex occluded orchard scenarios, addressing 
the key challenges of low segmentation accuracy, frequent ID switches, 
and inefficient biomass assessment in existing methods. The MFFT in­
tegrates a Swin-T backbone with a custom Transformer decoder and 
dedicated modules (SFE, SOA, BAM), achieving 0.71 mIoU and 0.73 F1- 
Score at 40.32 FPS for pixel-level segmentation of on-tree and on-ground 
mangoes, outperforming mainstream models. For tracking, a multi- 
feature fusion strategy (IoU, HSV, Hu moments, diagonal length) com­
bined with an enhanced Kalman filter and ID lifecycle management 
effectively suppresses ID switches, yielding a 4.30% MRE for global 
counting and superior MOTA (0.6513) and IDF1 (0.7075) compared to 
ByteTrack and so on. By fusing segmentation-derived diagonal features 
with tracking results, the framework realizes precise biomass estimation 
with an MRE of only 4.49% (R2 = 0.99). While MFFT demonstrates 
robust performance in variable lighting and occlusion, it faces limita­
tions in high-density mango segmentation and 2D-based biomass 
estimation.
Future work will focus on optimizing the segmentation network for 
cluster-shaped targets. We will construct a joint segmentation and 
tracking feedback framework. Binocular vision technology will be in­
tegrated to enable three-dimensional biomass assessment. In addition, 
the modular architecture of our method provides a foundation for cross- 
crop transfer. The attention mechanism in the segmentation module can 
adapt to the appearance features of different crops. The multi-feature 
fusion framework in the tracking module can be replaced with crop- 
specific morphological indicators such as fruit diameter and fruit 
shape index. We will conduct multi-crop validation experiments in 
subsequent studies to further verify its generalization capability. 
Declaration of Generative AI in Scientific Writing
During the preparation of this work, the authors used ChatGPT in 
order to improve the language and readability. After using this tool/ 
service, the authors reviewed and edited the content as needed and takes 
full responsibility for the content of the publication.
CRediT authorship contribution statement
Wentao Huang: Writing – original draft, Visualization, Data cura­
tion, Conceptualization. Yingsheng Li: Writing – original draft, Visu­
alization, Methodology, Conceptualization. Beike Tan: Writing – 
original draft, Visualization. Marija Brki´c Bakari´c: Writing – original 
draft, Visualization. Zhiqiang Zhu: Writing – original draft, 
W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 253 (2026) 112149 
24 

Visualization. Xiaoshuan Zhang: Writing – original draft, Supervision, 
Funding acquisition.
Declaration of competing interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial 
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence 
the work reported in this paper.
Acknowledgements
The authors gratefully acknowledge the China-Montenegro Science 
and Technology Cooperation Committee Exchange Project (grant num­
ber: 4-7).
Appendix A. Supplementary data
Supplementary data to this article can be found online at https://doi. 
org/10.1016/j.compag.2026.112149.
Data availability
Data will be made available on request.
References
Crespo, A., Moncada, C., Crespo, F., Morocho-Cayamcela, M.E., 2025. An efficient 
strawberry segmentation model based on Mask R-CNN and TensorRT. Artif. Intell. 
Agric. 15 (2), 327–337. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aiia.2025.01.008.
Guerra Ibarra, J.P., Cuevas de la Rosa, F.J., Hernandez Vidales, J.R., 2025. Evaluation of 
the Effectiveness of the UNet Model with Different Backbones in the Semantic 
Segmentation of Tomato Leaves and Fruits. Horticulturae 11 (5), 514. https://doi. 
org/10.3390/horticulturae11050514.
Harefa, M.T., Wijaya, D.R., 2025. In: A Real-Time Multi-Object Tracker Based on Hybrid 
Integration of ByteTrack and DeepSORT Using YOLOv8. IEEE, pp. 244–250. https:// 
doi.org/10.1109/ICoAILO66760.2025.11155979.
Karabanov, G., Oke, O. R., & Krakhmalev, A. (2025). AI-driven orchard management: 
Advancing sustainable apple production through convolutional neural network 
recognition. In E3S Web of Conferences (Vol. 614, pp. 03018): EDP Sciences. doi: 
10.1109/ICCSP64183.2025.11089454.
Lee, J., Nazki, H., Baek, J., Hong, Y., Lee, M., 2020. Artificial intelligence approach for 
tomato detection and mass estimation in precision agriculture. Sustainability 12 
(21), 9138. https://doi.org/10.3390/su12219138.
Lei, Y., Zhou, X., Cheng, H., 2025. Assessment of emergy, environmental and economic 
sustainability of the mango orchard production system in Hainan. China. 
Sustainability 17 (15), 7030. https://doi.org/10.3390/su17157030.
Liao, T., Villacr´es, J., Vougioukas, S.G., 2025. Improved Amodal Fruit Segmentation via 
Data Augmentation and Mask RCNN Head Modification. IFAC-PapersOnLine 59 
(23), 413–418. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ifacol.2025.11.823.
Liu, S., Zhao, S., Wang, Y., Xin, J., Li, D., 2024a. An enhanced underwater fish 
segmentation method in complex scenes using Swin transformer with cross-scale 
feature fusion. Vis. Comput. 1–15. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00371-024-03715-6.
Liu, Y., Li, B., Zhou, X., Li, D., Duan, Q., 2024b. FishTrack: Multi-object tracking method 
for fish using spatiotemporal information fusion. Expert Syst. Appl. 238, 122194. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2023.122194.
Lv, M., Xu, Y.-X., Miao, Y.-H., Su, W.-H., 2025. A Comprehensive Review of Deep 
Learning in Computer Vision for Monitoring Apple Tree Growth and Fruit 
Production. Sensors 25 (8), 2433. https://doi.org/10.3390/s25082433.
Mondal, S., Sur, T., Sengupta, D., Chaudhuri, C., 2025. In: MobileNet Based Fruit 
Classification Using UNet Generated Segmented Images: GRAD-CAM Visualization. 
Springer, pp. 237–249. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-84543-7_19.
Pichhika, H.C., Subudhi, P., Prasad Yerra, R.V., 2025. Enhanced YOLO-Based Mango 
Detection and Centroid Tracking for Precise Yield Estimation. Applied Fruit Science 
67 (3), 164. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10341-025-01385-9.
Rojas Santelices, I., Cano, S., Moreira, F., Pe˜na Fritz, ´A., 2025. Artificial vision systems 
for fruit inspection and classification: systematic literature review. Sensors 25 (5), 
1524. https://doi.org/10.3390/s25051524.
Shen, Q., Zhang, X., Shen, M., Xu, D., 2025. Multi-scale adaptive YOLO for instance 
segmentation of grape pedicels. Comput. Electron. Agric. 229, 109712. https://doi. 
org/10.1016/j.compag.2024.109712.
Sim, H.-S., Cho, H.-C., 2025. Enhanced deepsort and strongsort for multicattle tracking 
with optimized detection and re-identification. IEEE Access. https://doi.org/ 
10.1109/ACCESS.2025.3535092.
Tu, S., Huang, Y., Huang, Q., Liu, H., Cai, Y., Lei, H., 2025. Estimation of passion fruit 
yield based on YOLOv8n+ OC-SORT+ CRCM algorithm. Comput. Electron. Agric. 
229, 109727. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2024.109727.
Ven, J., Sharma, C., Syed, A., 2025. MangoSense: A time-series vision sensing dataset for 
mango tree segmentation and detection toward yield prediction. Comput. Electron. 
Agric. 237, 110524. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2025.110524.
Wei, J., Sun, Y., Luo, L., Ni, L., Chen, M., You, M., Mu, Y., Gong, H., 2025. Tomato 
ripeness detection and fruit segmentation based on instance segmentation. Front. 
Plant Sci. 16, 1503256. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2025.1503256.
Xie, C., Gao, Y., Zhong, Y., Zhao, Z., 2024. Impact of digital agro-technology services on 
technical efficiency and income of small-scale farmers: Empirical study from mango 
production in China. Agriculture 14 (12), 2143. https://doi.org/10.3390/ 
agriculture14122143.
Xu, C., Li, C.-T., Hu, Y., Lim, C.P., Creighton, D., 2025. Deep learning techniques for 
Video Instance Segmentation: A survey. Pattern Recogn. 111763. https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.patcog.2025.111763.
Yang, C., Guo, Z., Fernandes Barbin, D., Dai, Z., Watson, N., Povey, M., Zou, X., 2025. 
Hyperspectral Imaging and Deep Learning for Quality and Safety Inspection of Fruits 
and Vegetables: A Review. J. Agric. Food Chem. 73 (17), 10019–10035. https://doi. 
org/10.1016/10.1021/acs.jafc.4c11492.
Yao, M., Huo, Y., Tian, Q., Zhao, J., Liu, X., Wang, R., Xue, L., Wang, H., 2025. FMRFT: 
Fusion mamba and DETR for query time sequence intersection fish tracking. 
Comput. Electron. Agric. 237, 110742. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
compag.2025.110742.
Zeng, T., Tong, J., Sun, X., Liu, J., He, X., Guan, Z., Liu, L., Jiang, N., 2025. YOLO-FCAP: 
An improved lightweight object detection model based on YOLOv8n for citrus yield 
prediction in complex environments. Smart Agric. Technol. 101590. https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.atech.2025.101590.
Zhai, Y., Zhang, L., Hu, X., Yang, F., Huang, Y., 2025. A Dynamic Kalman Filtering 
Method for Multi-Object Fruit Tracking and Counting in Complex Orchards. Sensors 
25 (13), 4138. https://doi.org/10.3390/s25134138.
Zhang, J., Jiang, L., He, L., Wu, Z., Li, R., Chen, J., Sun, X., Xue, Y., Grecheneva, A., 
Fountas, S., 2025a. Row-based kiwifruit counting pipeline for smartphone-captured 
videos using fruit tracking and detection region adaptation guided by support-post. 
Comput. Electron. Agric. 237, 110476. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
compag.2025.110476.
Zhang, R., Ou, H., Shi, P., Tang, P., Xu, Y., Wang, R., 2025b. A lightweight dense 
pedestrian detection and tracking algorithm based on improved YOLOv8 and deep 
sort. SIViP 19 (6), 508. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11760-025-04101-y.
Zhou, C., Ampatzidis, Y., Guan, H., Liu, S., Liu, W., de Oliveira Costa Neto, A., Kunwar, 
S., & Batuman, O. (2025). Agrosense: Accelerating precision orchard management 
through an AI-enabled monitoring system. Precision Agriculture, 26(4), 73. doi: 
10.1007/s11119-025-10268-8.
Zhou, J., Chen, M., Zhang, M., Zhang, Z., Zhang, Y., Wang, M., 2025b. Improved YOLOv8 
for multi-colored apple fruit instance segmentation and 3D localization. Artif. Intell. 
Agric. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aiia.2025.10.013.
Zhou, X., Zhang, Y., Jiang, X., Riaz, K., Rosenbaum, P., Lefsrud, M., Sun, S., 2024. 
Advancing tracking-by-detection with multimap: Towards occlusion-resilient online 
multiclass strawberry counting. Expert Syst. Appl. 255, 124587. https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.eswa.2024.124587.
Zhu, X., Dong, X., Yu, W., Liang, H., Kong, B., 2025a. Refactored Maskformer: Refactor 
localization and classification for improved universal image segmentation. Displays 
102981. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.displa.2025.102981.
Zhu, Y., Yu, Q., Xu, Z., 2025b. Optimized watermelon scion leaf segmentation model 
based on Hungarian algorithm and information theory. Electronics 14 (3), 620. 
https://doi.org/10.3390/electronics14030620.
Zu, L., Zhao, Y., Liu, J., Su, F., Zhang, Y., Liu, P., 2021. Detection and segmentation of 
mature green tomatoes based on mask R-CNN with automatic image acquisition 
approach. Sensors 21 (23), 7842. https://doi.org/10.3390/s21237842.
W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 253 (2026) 112149 
25 
