Palm Fruit Ripeness Detection and Counting Using 
YOLOv8 Algorithm in PTPN IV Medan North 
Sumatera Indonesia 
Rael Russel Hutapea 
School of Computer Science 
Bina Nusantara University 
Jakarta, Indonesia 
rael.hutapea@binus.ac.id 
 
Erna Fransisca Angela Sihotang 
Statistics Department 
School of Computer Science 
Bina Nusantara University 
Jakarta, Indonesia 
erna.sihotang@binus.ac.id 
Samdo Jumar Purba 
School of Computer Science 
Bina Nusantara University 
Jakarta, Indonesia 
samdo.purba@binus.ac.id 
 
Edy Irwansyah 
Computer Science Department 
School of Computer Science 
Bina Nusantara University 
Jakarta, Indonesia 
edirwan@binus.ac.id 
William Ferdinandz Tandion 
School of Computer Science 
Bina Nusantara University 
Jakarta, Indonesia 
william.tandion@binus.ac.id 
 
Abstract—Oil palm plantations have become a crucial sector 
in the Indonesian economy. This research investigates the 
effectiveness of YOLOv8 in identifying the ripeness of oil palm 
fruits. The goal is to create a system that uses the YOLOv8 Deep 
Learning algorithm to detect the ripeness level of oil palm fruits. 
An automatic detection system will simplify and accelerate the 
sorting or classifying of oil palm fruits. This research utilizes 
datasets sourced from the oil palm plantation repository of 
PTPN IV Medan, North Sumatera, Indonesia. The dataset 
collected for this research consists of 85 images with a size of 
640x640. The dataset is loaded into Roboflow and undergoes 
pre-processing and augmentation. The total dataset obtained 
after augmentation is 185 images. After obtaining the API from 
Roboflow and integrating it into Google Colab for YOLOv8 
training, testing was performed on the provided images. The 
results indicated that YOLOv8 achieved an accuracy of 0.991 
(99.1%) in detecting ripe, unripe, and rotten oil palm fruit. The 
high value of accuracy leads to the potential to increase the 
efficiency of oil palm plantation management and become the 
basis for developing AI-based agricultural technology. With 
further updates, the YOLOv8 model could become a handy tool 
in oil palm plantation monitoring and management in the 
future.  
Keywords—YOLOv8, palm fruit, object detection, deep 
learning, PTPN IV 
I. INTRODUCTION  
Indonesia has rich natural resources. Indonesia is a major 
global producer country of palm oil. Palm fruit, once 
processed into vegetable oil, can be used in a variety of 
everyday products such as ice cream, chocolate, biscuits, 
cosmetics, soap, detergents, textile oils, and biodiesel. [1]. Oil 
palm plantations have become a crucial sector in the 
Indonesian economy. By 2020, the area of oil palm 
plantations in North Sumatera is expected to cover 440,000 
hectares, with a production capacity of 7 million tons. [2]. 
One of the main entities that contributes significantly to the 
oil palm industry is PT Perkebunan Nusantara (PTPN) IV, 
located in Medan, North Sumatera, Indonesia. PTPN IV is a 
state-owned enterprise that focuses on the oil palm business 
which has now been organizationally united and become sub-
holding of PalmCo.  The oil palm commodity is so important 
that efforts are needed to improve it, both in terms of 
productivity and efficiency. To enhance this, a key factor is 
the accurate measurement of oil palm fruit ripeness. Rapid 
and precise assessment of fruit ripeness can lead to higher 
harvest yields. 
Computer vision is a branch of artificial intelligence 
dedicated to creating systems that can analyze, understand, 
and interpret visual data from the real world. One model of 
this technology is You Only Look Once (YOLO), the model 
chosen in this research is YOLO version 8. Thanks to its fast-
processing method, the YOLO model offers benefits such as 
high-accuracy 
detection 
and 
real-time 
performance. 
Previously, YOLO models have been used to identify 
agricultural fruits like apples, tomatoes, and pears. In the oil 
palm sector research, earlier studies created an automated 
detection system incorporating the YOLO model to identify 
FFBs. The authors evaluated the performance of different 
YOLOv3 series models, and the findings demonstrated that 
the model is effective for object detection in the oil palm 
sector [3].  This research uses the YOLOv8 model because 
YOLOv8 is the newest version of You Only Look Once, 
offering enhanced speed and accuracy in detection. It utilizes 
a similar backbone to YOLOv5 but includes modifications to 
the CSPLayer, now referred to as the C2f module. The C2f 
module 
(cross-stage 
partial 
bottleneck 
with 
two 
convolutions) integrates high-level features with contextual 
information to enhance detection accuracy [4]. 
The goal of this research is to create a system for assessing 
the ripeness of oil palm fruits using the YOLOv8 Deep 
Learning algorithm. When detecting oil palm fruits manually, 
the main challenge is undoubtedly the need for more time. An 
automatic detection system will simplify and accelerate the 
sorting or classifying of oil palm fruits. Improvements in 
terms of productivity must continue to be carried out to obtain 
maximum results. With increased productivity, harvest yields 
can certainly increase significantly. The YOLOv8 technology 
is expected to contribute significantly to speeding up the 
detection of oil palm fruits. 
The writing structure of this paper consists of several 
sections. Firstly, the introduction provides information about 
the superiority of the algorithm used and the purpose of the 
2024 6th International Conference on Cybernetics and Intelligent System (ICORIS) | 979-8-3315-3960-3/24/$31.00 ©2024 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/ICORIS63540.2024.10903790
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:46:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

research. Then, the state-of-the-art section contains the latest 
research in the detection of oil palm fruit ripeness using the 
YOLO model. Following that, the methodology section 
elaborates on the research flowchart, data, and YOLOv8 
algorithm model. Then, the results and discussions section 
present the findings and analysis. Finally, the paper concludes 
with the conclusions section. 
II. STATE OF THE ART 
A considerable amount of research has been conducted on 
detecting the ripeness of oil palm fruit using various models, 
including YOLO. This includes several previous studies that 
utilized the YOLO model to assess the ripeness of oil palm 
fruits. This paper [2] compares three object detection models, 
namely MobileNetV2 SSD, EfficientDet, and YOLOv5, in 
categorizing the ripeness stages of fresh oil palm fruit. The 
results show that YOLOv5m has the highest mean average 
precision (mAP) value of 84.2%. YOLOv5's advantages 
include faster detection speed, high computational efficiency, 
and the ability to be implemented on mobile devices. 
However, although EfficientDet is a powerful object detector, 
it has not demonstrated similar performance to YOLOv5. 
Meanwhile, MobileNetV2 SSD, although intended for 
mobile applications, has not performed as well as other 
models in object detection. Thus, YOLOv5m is proposed as 
the most suitable object detection model for oil palm fresh 
fruit ripeness classification applications, with opportunities 
for future improvement through hyperparameter adjustments 
and the implementation of ensemble model techniques. This 
research highlights the significance of digitalizing the 
agricultural industry and applying artificial intelligence (AI) 
in agricultural practices, intending to improve efficiency and 
productivity in oil palm plantation management by an 
appropriate object detection model. 
The [3] brings innovation in the development of a real-
time ripe oil palm fruit detection system based on the 
YOLOv4 model. By utilizing a training dataset that includes 
430 positive images and 250 negative images and setting the 
model parameters to a width and height of 608, this research 
managed to achieve an impressive level of accuracy. Field 
testing showed excellent performance, with mAP results 
reaching 87.9%, confirming the system's ability to identify 
ripe palm fruit in real-time. This makes an important 
contribution in the context of modern agriculture and the 
plantation industry, providing a strong foundation for the 
development of automated detection technology that can help 
increase efficiency and productivity in the process of packing 
ripe palm fruit. 
In the research conducted by [5], the YOLOv3 algorithm 
is used to detect ripe palm fruit in real-time, to improve the 
harvest process. The method involves data collection, image 
labelling, model training, and testing using the Darknet 
framework. The research results show that YOLOv3 can 
detect and differentiate the ripeness levels of oil palm fruits 
with relatively high accuracy, with a Mean Average Precision 
(mAP) value reaching 95.18% at the 5000th iteration. 
However, there is a decrease in accuracy after the 5000th 
iteration due to overfitting. There are also some drawbacks, 
including the lack of high-quality images in the dataset, 
which affects the detection accuracy. This research shows the 
potential of the YOLOv3 algorithm in increasing oil palm 
harvest efficiency, however further improvements in dataset 
collection and quality are needed to increase overall detection 
accuracy.  
In [6], focused on detecting and classifying the ripeness of 
oil palm fruit using different variations of the YOLOv8 model. 
Utilizing a comprehensive dataset, the study demonstrates that 
the YOLOv8m model achieves the highest accuracy, with a 
mAP value of 92.7%. Further testing also showed that 
YOLOv8 able to detect objects with a high accuracy of 
99.49%. This reflects an excellent potential of the model in 
changing the paradigm of evaluating oil palm fruit ripeness, 
which traditionally relies on human graders, into a more 
consistent and accurate process, as well as minimizing 
economic losses due to suboptimal oil extraction rates caused 
by unripe fruits. Thus, the YOLOv8 model can be an effective 
tool in the oil palm industry, which can have a positive impact 
on the productivity and sustainability of the industry. This 
paper also highlights the potential of the YOLOv8 model in 
general agricultural applications, by showing its possible use 
in different agricultural contexts. 
Here are the previous research studies with their respective 
algorithms used for detecting the ripeness of oil palm fruits, as 
shown in Table I. 
TABLE I.  PREVIOUS RESEARCH ON OIL PALM RIPENESS CLASSIFICATION    
USING MACHINE LEARNING AND DEEP LEARNING  
No 
Model/Method/ 
Algorithm 
Dataset 
Accuracy 
[1] 
Otsu Method - Support 
Vector Machines 
(SVM) 
160 images (Raw, 
Under-ripe, Ripe) 
92.5% 
[2] 
YOLOv5 
304 images 
(Unripe, Halfripe, 
Ripe, Over-ripe) 
84.2% 
[3] 
YOLOv4 
490 images (half 
containing Ripe, and 
half not containing 
Ripe) 
87.9% 
[5] 
YOLOv3 
4500 images, (Unripe, 
Ripe, Overripe) 
95.18% 
[6] 
YOLOv8 
14559 objects within 
7171 images (Unripe, 
Underripe, Ripe, 
Overripe, Empty 
Bunch, Abnormal) 
99.49% 
[7] 
Convolutional Neutral 
Network (CNN) 
400 images (Raw, 
Ripe, Rotten) 
92% 
[8] 
contour-based 
approach 
160 images (Raw, 
Under-ripe, Ripe) 
90.13% 
[9] 
YOLOv4 
14559 objects within 
7171 images (Unripe, 
Underripe, Ripe, 
Overripe, Empty 
Bunch, Abnormal) 
99% 
[10] 
Gray Level Co-
occurrence Matrix 
(GLCM) 
99 images (Raw, Ripe, 
Overripe) 
71.4% 
[11] 
Color Features 
Extraction and Bag of 
Visual Words method 
400 images (Ripe, 
Unripe, Underripe, 
Overripe) 
57% and 
70% 
[12] 
YOLOv8 and 
EfficientDet Lite-4 
8299 images (Unripe, 
Underripe, Ripe, 
Overripe, Empty 
Bunch, Abnormal) 
97.6% 
and 94% 
[13] 
ResNet50 and 
YOLOv3 
299 images (Underripe, 
Ripe, Overripe) 
76% and 
84% 
[16] 
Convolutional Neural 
Network (CNN) - 
EfficientNetB0 
328 images (Unripe, 
Underripe, Ripe) 
91.4% to 
91.5% 
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:46:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

No 
Model/Method/ 
Algorithm 
Dataset 
Accuracy 
[17] 
Linear Discriminant 
Analysis (LDA) 
150 images (Raw, 
Under-ripe, Ripe) 
98.88% 
[18] 
Artificial Neural 
Network (ANN) - 
Back-Propagation 
Algorithm 
240 images (Raw, 
Half-ripe, Ripe) 
98.30% 
[19] 
Convolutional Neural 
Network (CNN) - 
AlexNet and DenseNet 
400 images (Ripening, 
Raw, Less Ripped, 
Almost Ripped, 
Ripped, Perfectly 
Ripped, Too Ripped) 
77% and 
86% 
[20] 
Convolutional Neural 
Network (CNN) 
628 images (Unripe, 
Ripe) 
98% 
III. METHODOLOGY 
 In this research, there are several steps that can be seen in 
Figure 1. The initial process of this research involves 
observing the problem to be identified, followed by 
conducting a literature review related to the problem to be 
solved. Next is data collecting, which is carried out at PTPN 
IV Medan, North Sumatera, Indonesia. After the data is 
collected, pre-processing and post-processing are performed 
to train the model. Then, the model produces results that are 
subsequently evaluated to obtain the desired outcome, which 
is then analyzed to reach a conclusion.  
Fig. 1. Research Flowchart 
A. Data Collecting 
A dataset from the PTPN IV oil palm plantation repository 
is used in this research. To maximize the data outcomes, the 
data collection activities were conducted in an organized 
manner. Various techniques were employed to gather data, 
including conducting interviews with oil palm employees, 
farmers, and office workers. Finding out about the present 
field conditions, when to harvest oil palm fruit, issues 
encountered in the field, cultivation techniques, and 
technologies employed are all part of this interview. Whether 
the oil palm fruit is ripe, unripe, or rotten, activities are 
conducted in an organized fashion.  
The speed and accuracy of oil palm fruit detection will 
increase with a clean dataset and clear image quality. An 
iPhone 12 was used as the mobile device camera to capture 
and organize images of oil palm fruit for this dataset. 
 
Fig. 2. Dataset Example from the PTPN IV oil palm plantation 
It can be seen in Figure 2 that various types of images were 
collected, that includes images of ripe oil palm fruit, unripe oil 
palm fruit, rotten oil palm fruit, and images of several oil palm 
fruits. To achieve accurate detection and to enable detection, 
images must be taken in a clear and organized manner. A 
dataset consisting of 85 photos with an image size of 640x640 
was collected for this research. The YOLOv8 model will then 
be trained and used to detect the obtained dataset.  
B. Image Pre-Processing 
The three steps of the data pre-processing procedure are 
uploading, annotating, and foldering. The collected image 
dataset was uploaded to Roboflow, then divided into good and 
bad images in the foldering process, as well as photos that 
clearly show fruit, which will be used as training data later. 
Then, the image will be separated into three sections: ripe, 
unripe, and rotten. Following their division into these groups, 
the images will receive annotations or labels according to 
these categories. After that, each image that has been 
annotated and labeled will be divided into 3 sets: a training set 
with 63 images (88% ratio), a validation set with 13 images 
(7% ratio), and a testing set with 9 images (5% ratio). These 
images are divided randomly by Roboflow but can be edited 
or modified by the user. Roboflow offers various pre-
processing characteristics that are applied to the dataset. These 
features boost the efficiency of data training and decrease 
training time by shrinking the existing data. 
C. Image Post-Processing 
Post-processing focuses on enhancing the segmented 
image, and any additional processing needed is handled 
during this phase [14]. In this step, a few changes are made 
to the dataset to ensure that the database has more data 
variations. This can be achieved with the augmentation 
feature of Roboflow, where users can select the type of 
augmentation, and the image will be transformed based on 
that augmentation. Two types of augmentation are used in the 
available dataset: Flip and 90° Rotate. The total dataset 
obtained after augmentation is 185 images, with the number 
of images in the training set increasing to 163 images. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:46:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

D. YOLOv8 Model 
Developed by Ultralytics, the same company behind 
YOLOv5, YOLOv8 is the latest advanced computer vision 
model. It offers built-in capabilities for object recognition, 
classification, and segmentation tasks. YOLOv8 can be 
accessed via the command line interface and the Python 
package [6]. YOLOv8 is a great algorithm for various object 
recognition and tracking, instance segmentation, image 
classification, and pose estimation tasks due to its fast, precise, 
and user-friendly architecture. In this project, YOLOv8 will 
be used as the main algorithm for several reasons such as: 
 
Fig. 3. YOLOv8 Architecture [15] 
1) Enhanced CSPDarknet Backbone: YOLOv8 utilizes 
an improved version of the CSPDarknet backbone, which 
stands for Cross Stage Partial Darknet. This backbone is 
responsible for extracting hierarchical features from input 
images. Key features include: 
a) CSP (Cross Stage Partial) Connections: These 
connections help in reducing computational complexity 
while maintaining gradient flow, allowing the network to 
learn more effectively. 
b) Bottleneck Layers: YOLOv8 incorporates advanced 
bottleneck layers that include convolutional operations, 
activation functions (like Mish or SiLU), and normalization 
layers (such as BatchNorm or GroupNorm). 
c) Residual Connections: Facilitates the training of 
deeper networks by allowing gradients to flow through 
shortcut connections, mitigating the vanishing gradient 
problem. 
2) Feature Pyramid Integration: The backbone processes 
the input image through multiple stages, each capturing 
different levels of abstraction. Lower layers capture fine-
grained details, while higher layers capture more abstract, 
semantic information. 
IV. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
YOLOv8 model training was carried out in Google Colab 
using the dataset that had been uploaded to Roboflow and had 
undergone pre-processing and augmentation. After obtaining 
the dataset API from Roboflow and integrating it into Google 
Colab for YOLOv8 training, testing was conducted on the 
provided images. 
 
 
Fig. 4. Details of pre-processing and augmentation 
 
Figure 4 shows the details of pre-processing and 
augmentation of the oil palm fruit dataset. Pre-processing 
involves using Auto-Orient to adjust the visual orientation of 
the images to match how they are stored on disk and resizing 
images to 640x640. Data augmentation uses 2 variations: Flip 
and 90° Rotate. 
A. Training YOLOv8 Model 
YOLOv8 model training was carried out for 25 epochs 
with an image size of 640x640. Below is a training graph of 
YOLOv8 that shows changes during training process over 
each epoch shown in Figure 5. 
 
Fig. 5. YOLOv8 Training Graph 
TABLE II.  YOLOV8 TRAINING RESULTS 
Class 
mAP50 
mAP50-95 
All 
0.991 
0.662 
Ripe 
0.988 
0.606 
Unripe 
0.995 
0.717 
Table II shows the accuracy of each class after the training 
process has been carried out. In this research, it is divided into 
3 classes: Ripe, Unripe, and Rotten. It was found that 
YOLOv8 had an accuracy of 0.991 (99.1%) in detecting all 
the three classes (ripe, unripe, and rotten) of oil palm fruit. 
Ripe has mAP50 (mean average precision) of  0.988 and 0.606 
with the higher threshold. Unripe has mAP50 of 0.995 and 
0.717 with higher thresholds. Cross validation was used in 
these tests, and the results are almost the same but not 
identical.  
B. Detection Results 
In the detection process, oil palm fruits were successfully 
identified with three main categories: ripe oil palm fruit, 
unripe oil palm fruit, and rotten oil palm fruit. As shown in 
Figure 6 is an example of research results on the detection of 
ripe oil palm fruit. As shown in the figure, the detection results 
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:46:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

are correct because the trained model detects the ripe oil palm 
fruit precisely and accurately with arguably high confidence. 
While Figure 7 shows unripe oil palm fruit detection results. 
It represents an example of research results on the detection of 
unripe oil palm fruit. As shown in the figure, the detection 
results are correct because the trained model detects the unripe 
oil palm fruit precisely and accurately. 
 
Fig. 6. Ripe oil palm fruit detection results 
 
Fig. 7. Unripe oil palm fruit detection results 
Then, on Figure 8 is an example of research results on the 
detection of rotten oil palm fruit. As shown in the figure, the 
detection results are correct because the trained model detects 
the rotten oil palm fruit precisely and accurately. It can be seen 
that the pink bounding box was correctly placed. 
 
Fig. 8. Rotten oil palm fruit detection results 
C. Discussion 
According to the findings of this research, the YOLOv8 
model, which is the newest version of YOLO, provides better 
accuracy compared to the previous versions of YOLO used 
by previous researchers. However, when compared to 
previous research that used the YOLOv8 model, the accuracy 
results of this research can be considered quite good, although 
it can still be improved when compared with similar research 
that shows very accurate results from using YOLOv8 model 
[6] [12]. Even though this research uses a smaller dataset and 
epochs, the accuracy achieved is not significiantly lower 
compared to studies that used larger dataset and epochs. 
However, based on the results in Table II, the accuracy results 
for the rotten class are not shown. This may occur due to 
insufficient datasets to train the model in the rotten ripeness 
class. Therefore, it is important to collect sufficient and large 
datasets for each ripeness class, so the model can be more 
effectively trained in detecting the ripeness level of oil palm 
fruit. To achieve high accuracy results, one effective way is 
by providing/collecting sufficient and large datasets that 
includes clear and well-defined images for each ripeness 
level. Furthermore, training the model with more epochs 
allows it to improve its understanding of the dataset, thereby 
improving its ability to generalize and make accurate 
predictions. By combining large datasets with extended 
training, the model can achieve better performance in 
detecting the ripeness level. 
V. CONCLUSION 
Based on this research, it can be concluded that the 
YOLOv8 model has been effective in detecting the ripeness 
of oil palm fruits at PTPN IV Medan, North Sumatera, 
Indonesia. This model successfully and accurately identifies 
the ripeness level of the oil palm fruits with an accuracy of 
0.991 (99.1%). The results obtained show the potential to 
increase the efficiency of oil palm plantation management 
and can serve as a basis for further development in AI-based 
agricultural technology. With additional updates and 
advancements, the YOLOv8 model could become an 
extremely valuable tool for monitoring and managing oil 
palm plantations in the future. 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT  
We thank ESRI Indonesia and PTPN VI as the basis for 
obtaining data and programming tools to obtain the results of 
this research.  
REFERENCES 
[1] 
A. Septiarini, H. Hamdani, H. R. Hatta and A. A. Kasim, "Image-based 
processing for ripeness classification of oil palm fruit," 2019 5th 
International Conference on Science in Information Technology 
(ICSITech), pp. 23-26, 2019. 
[2] 
M. Y. M. A. Mansour, K. D. Dambul, and K. Y. Choo, “Object 
Detection Algorithms for Ripeness Classification of Oil Palm Fresh 
Fruit Bunch,” International Journal of Technology, vol. 13, no. 6, pp. 
1326-1335, 2022. 
[3] 
J. W. Lai, H. R. Ramli, L. I. Ismail, and W. Z. W. Hasan, “Real-Time 
Detection of Ripe Oil Palm Fresh Fruit Bunch Based on YOLOv4,” 
IEEE Access, vol. 10, pp. 95763-95770, 2022. 
[4] 
J. Terven, D. M. Córdova-Esparza, and J. A. Romero-González, “A 
Comprehensive Review of YOLO Architectures in Computer Vision: 
From YOLOv1 to YOLOv8 and YOLO-NAS,” Machine Learning and 
Knowledge Extraction, vol. 5, no. 4, pp. 1680-1716, 2023. 
[5] 
N. A. Mohd Basir Selvam, Z. Ahmad and I. A. Mohtar, "Real Time 
Ripe Palm Oil Bunch Detection using YOLO V3 Algorithm," 2021 
IEEE 19th Student Conference on Research and Development 
(SCOReD), pp. 323-328, 2021. 
[6] 
T. S. Gunawan, M. Kartiwi, H. Mansor, and N. M. Yusoff, “Palm Fruit 
Ripeness Detection and Classification Using Various YOLOv8 
Models,” 2023 IEEE 9th International Conference on Smart 
Instrumentation, Measurement and Applications (ICSIMA), pp. 193-
198, 2023. 
[7] 
S. Ashari, G. J. Yanris, and I. Purnama, “Oil Palm Fruit Ripeness 
Detection using Deep Learning,” Sinkron, vol. 7, no. 2, pp. 649-656, 
2022. 
 
 
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:46:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

[8] 
A. Septiarini, H. Hamdani, H. R. Hatta, and K. Anwar, “Automatic 
image segmentation of oil palm fruits by applying the contour-based 
approach,” Scientia Horticulturae, vol. 261, p. 108939, 2020. 
[9] 
Suharjito, F. A. Junior, Y. P. Koeswandy, Debi, P. W. Nurhayati,  M. 
Asrol and Marimin, “Annotated Datasets of Oil Palm Fruit Bunch Piles 
for Ripeness Grading Using Deep Learning,” Scientific Data, vol. 10, 
no. 1, p. 72, 2023. 
[10] A. Syaifuddin, L. N. A. Mualifah, L. Hidayat, and A. M. Abadi, 
“Detection of palm fruit maturity level in the grading process through 
image recognition and fuzzy inference system to improve quality and 
productivity of crude palm oil (CPO),” Journal of Physics: Conference 
Series, vol. 1581, no. 1, p. 012003, 2020. 
[11] S. A. Ghazali, H. Selamat, Z. Omar, and R. Yusof, “Image Analysis 
Techniques for Ripeness Detection of Palm Oil Fresh Fruit Bunches,” 
ELEKTRIKA- Journal of Electrical Engineering, vol. 18, no. 3, pp. 57-
62, 2019. 
[12] M. R. A. Priyadi and Suharjito, "Comparison of YOLOv8 and 
EfficientDet4 Algorithms in Detecting the Ripeness of Oil Palm Fruit 
Bunch," 2023 10th International Conference on ICT for Smart Society 
(ICISS), pp. 1-7, 2023. 
[13] N. Khamis, H. Selamat, S. Ghazalli, N. I. M. Saleh, and N. Yusoff, 
“Comparison of Palm Oil Fresh Fruit Bunches (FFB) Ripeness 
Classification Technique using Deep Learning Method,” in 2022 13th 
Asian Control Conference (ASCC), pp. 64-68, 2022. 
[14] P. Shivhare and V. Gupta, “Review of Image Segmentation Techniques 
Including Pre & Post Processing Operations,” International Journal of 
Engineering and Advanced Technology, vol. 4, no. 3, pp. 153-157, 
2015. 
[15] N. B. A. Karna, M. A. P. Putra, S. M. Rachmawati, M. Abisado and G. 
A. Sampedro, "Toward Accurate Fused Deposition Modeling 3D 
Printer 
Fault 
Detection 
Using 
Improved 
YOLOv8 
With 
Hyperparameter Optimization," IEEE Access, vol. 11, pp. 74251-
74262, 2023. 
[16] W. Y. Teh and I. K. T. Tan, “Coloured Edge Maps for Oil Palm 
Ripeness Classification,” British Machine Vision Conference, 2021. 
[17] A. Septiarini, H. R. Hatta, H. Hamdani, A. Oktavia, A. A. Kasim and 
S. Suyanto, "Maturity Grading of Oil Palm Fresh Fruit Bunches Based 
on a Machine Learning Approach," 2020 Fifth International 
Conference on Informatics and Computing (ICIC), pp. 1-4, 2020.  
[18] A. Septiarini, A. Sunyoto, H. Hamdani, A. A. Kasim, F. 
Utaminingrum, and H. R. Hatta, “Machine vision for the maturity 
classification of oil palm fresh fruit bunches based on color and texture 
features,” Scientia Horticulturae, vol. 286, p. 110245, 2021. 
[19] H. Herman, T. W. Cenggoro, A. Susanto, and B. Pardamean, “Deep 
Learning for Oil Palm Fruit Ripeness Classification with DenseNet,” 
2021 International Conference on Information Management and 
Technology (ICIMTech), vol. 1, pp. 116-119, 2021. 
[20] A. Y. Saleh and E. Liansitim, “Palm oil classification using deep 
learning,” Science in Information Technology Letters, vol. 1, no. 1, pp. 
1-8, 2020. 
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:46:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
