Eggplant Detection and Counting Across the Entire
Greenhouse Using Deep Learning and Motion
Parallax
Tatsuya Ishizuka
Graduate School of Interdisciplinary Information Studies
The University of Tokyo
Tokyo, Japan
tatsuya.ishizuka@koshizuka-lab.org
Yusuke Sasaki
Graduate School of Interdisciplinary Information Studies
The University of Tokyo
Tokyo, Japan
yusuke.sasaki@koshizuka-lab.org
Takeo Hamada
Graduate School of Interdisciplinary Information Studies
The University of Tokyo
Tokyo, Japan
takeo.hamada@koshizuka-lab.org
Yuki Shimazaki-Kishi
Agricultural Research and Development Center
National Federation of Agricultural Cooperative Associations
Tokyo, Japan
shimazaki-yuuki@zennoh.or.jp
Noboru Koshizuka
Graduate School of Interdisciplinary Information Studies
The University of Tokyo
Tokyo, Japan
noboru@koshizuka-lab.org
Abstract—To address labor shortages and population growth,
the importance of maximizing productivity through precision
agriculture is increasing. As part of precision agriculture, count-
ing the number of fruits on crops is conducted to monitor growth
conditions and predict yields. Manual counting is inaccurate
and costly, so methods using object detection technologies to
count fruits have been proposed. However, existing methods count
all visible fruits in the frame, leading to duplicate counts and
inaccuracies in measuring the total number of fruits throughout
the greenhouse. In this paper, we propose a method for accurately
counting the number of eggplants in an agricultural greenhouse
by using an object detection model and an object tracking
model. Our method utilizes the principle of motion parallax
to prevent double counting and ensure accurate counts of each
ridge. This approach leads to a more precise estimate of the
total number of fruits in the greenhouse. The proposed method
was evaluated using object tracking metrics and a comparison
with the actual fruit count, and the results showed superior
performance compared to existing methods. This demonstrates
that our approach is more suitable for estimating the total
number of fruits throughout the entire greenhouse.
Index Terms—object detection, multi-object tracking, smart
agriculture, yield prediction
I. INTRODUCTION
Improving productivity in agriculture is becoming increas-
ingly important due to labor shortages and population growth.
To enhance productivity, precision agriculture, which involves
making crop production decisions based on data acquisition
and analysis [1], is gaining attention. Precision agriculture
often involves balancing the growth of crops between veg-
Fig. 1. Our method performs fruit counting using videos of greenhouse ridges
and object tracking techniques. Subsequently, as a post-processing step, fruits
from ridges not targeted for counting are removed based on the principle of
motion parallax. As a result, the method outputs the number of fruits per
ridge.
etative and reproductive stages. In fruit vegetables such as
tomatoes and eggplants, it is well-known that the crops un-
dergo vegetative growth, which involves the expansion of the
plant’s own body, and reproductive growth, which involves
active fruiting. The tendency of a crop towards vegetative or
reproductive growth can be determined by parameters such as
the thickness of the stem, the height of flower placement, and
the number of fruits [2]. These parameters are crucial because
adjusting factors such as temperature, irrigation levels, and
979-8-3503-6431-6/24/$31.00 ©2024 IEEE
1
2024 IEEE International Smart Cities Conference (ISC2) | 979-8-3503-6431-6/24/$31.00 ©2024 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/ISC260477.2024.11004199
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:44:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

the extent of leaf pruning according to whether a crop is in
a vegetative or reproductive growth phase can help achieve a
balanced growth and increase yields. Among these parameters,
understanding the number of fruits on the crops is particularly
important. Knowing the number of fruits not only allows us to
determine whether a crop is leaning towards vegetative growth
or reproductive growth, but it also enables us to assess the
yield that can be shipped soon, thereby aiding in the planning
of sales strategies.
Manual measurement of fruit counts not only incurs high
labor costs but is also inaccurate. In modern, large-scale
greenhouses, which often span over 100 meters by 100 meters,
estimating the total number of fruits involves estimating from
the counts of several sampled plants because it is impractical
to count every single fruit in such vast spaces. Therefore,
methods to automatically count the number of fruits using
computer vision technologies have been proposed. Parico and
Ahamed [3] counted pear fruits from only RGB images using
the YOLOv4 [12] model for object detection and DeepSORT
[16] (an object tracking model) for fruit counting. Their system
is capable of counting pears in real-time at 24 frames per
second (fps). Besides, Ge et al. [4] tracked and counted
tomatoes at different growth stages using the YOLO-Deepsort
network. Their approach is distinctive in that they carefully
compared multiple models, including the use of heatmaps. Gao
et al. [5] counted apple fruits by combining a YOLOv4-tiny-
based object detection network and a CSR-DCF-based tracker.
They used YOLOv4-tiny first to detect fruits and tree trunks
in each frame and then used the CSR-DCF tracker to calculate
displacement between frames. Finally, the current position of
the tracked fruits in the present frame was predicted based
on the displacement between frames, and the detected fruits
in the current frame are associated with the tracked fruits by
minimizing the Euclidean distance. One of the contributions
of their study is the tracking of tree trunks instead of directly
tracking small, difficult-to-track fruits, thereby enabling fruit
tracking across multiple frames. These studies propose a
method for counting the number of fruits from videos taken
in the field, while they do not discuss methods for counting
the total number of fruits across the entire field or greenhouse.
When filming the entire greenhouse, the same fruit may appear
in multiple video frames, leading to a problem of double
counting, which prevents an accurate count.
We aim to develop a method not just for a section but for
accurately counting the number of fruits throughout the entire
greenhouse. Our method allows for counting the number of
fruits per ridge, thereby enabling the count of the total number
of fruits throughout the greenhouse. Generally, as illustrated in
Fig. 2 and Fig. 5, agricultural greenhouses consist of multiple
ridges where crops are planted. By counting the number of
fruits on each ridge, it is possible to determine the total number
of fruits in the entire greenhouse.
More specifically, this paper focuses on counting eggplants
as its subject. An RGB camera is mounted on a cart that travels
along the aisles between the ridges, capturing images of these
ridges. Subsequently, object detection and tracking algorithms
Fig. 2. Greenhouse used for the experiment
are applied to each frame of the captured video to count the
eggplants. Finally, by utilizing the principle of motion parallax,
eggplants that are not to be counted and appear in the video
are removed, enabling the counting of eggplants on a per-ridge
basis. Fig. 1 illustrates the overview of our method.
The novelty of our method lies in its ability to separate
fruits on the foreground ridges from video footage of multiple
ridges, using the principle of motion parallax.
II. OBJECT DETECTION AND TRACKING
Object detection and object tracking methods are essential
technologies to accurately count fruits. Object detection iden-
tifies objects within a single image, while tracking establishes
the continuity of these objects across multiple frames. By inte-
grating both detection and tracking, it is possible to accurately
count objects over a sequence of images.
A. Object Detection
Object detection is a task that involves detecting whether
objects belonging to predefined categories (such as humans,
cars, bicycles, dogs, cats, etc.) are present in an image, and
if they are, inferring the position and extent of each object
[6]. The position and extent of objects are defined using the
smallest rectangle that surrounds the object, called a bounding
box. Fig. 3 (a) shows an example of the output from the object
detection model, where each eggplant fruit is enclosed in a
bounding box.
Since 2012, with the development of deep learning, deep
learning-based object detection methods have become main-
stream. One notable approach using deep learning is Faster
R-CNN [7], which is composed of modules known as Region
Proposal Networks (RPN) and Fast R-CNN [8]. The RPN
takes any size of image as input and outputs candidate object
regions along with an objectness score that indicates the likeli-
hood of an object’s presence. These candidate regions are then
passed to Fast R-CNN, where the object class and bounding
box estimates are determined. Techniques like Faster R-CNN
that propose multiple candidate object regions and perform
22
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:44:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

object class classification on each candidate are referred to as
two-stage detection systems.
In contrast to two-stage object detection methods, You Only
Look Once (YOLO) [9]–[12] is known as a one-stage method.
YOLO first divides the input image into a square grid. Each
grid predicts two bounding boxes and a confidence score for
each bounding box. The confidence score reflects whether
the bounding box contains an object and how accurate the
bounding box is. Additionally, each grid predicts the condi-
tional probability that it contains an object of a specific class,
given the grid contains any object. Finally, the bounding box’s
classification is determined by multiplying the conditional
probability with the confidence score. YOLO’s inference speed
is 45 fps, which is nine times faster than Faster R-CNN.
However, a limitation of YOLO is that it predicts only two
bounding boxes per grid and each grid can represent only one
class, making it less effective at recognizing smaller objects.
In our method, we have chosen to use YOLOv5 as our
object detection technique, as it is one of the most commonly
used methods and offers a balanced trade-off between high
detection accuracy and fast inference speeds.
B. Multi-Object Tracking
Multiple object tracking (MOT) is the task of locating
multiple objects, identifying each one, and outputting the
trajectory of each object in an input video. Examples of objects
that can be tracked include pedestrians on city streets. In this
paper, we apply MOT techniques to eggplants. Fig. 3 (b)
illustrates the application of the object tracking algorithm to
eggplant fruits.
Fig. 3. Object detection example (a). An example of object tracking (b). Each
eggplant fruit is assigned a bounding box with a unique ID and a color.
Simple Online and Realtime Tracking (SORT) [13] is an
algorithm that accomplishes MOT by linking objects detected
as bounding boxes across frames. SORT associates the objects
detected in the current frame with the objects being tracked
according to the following procedure:
1) Predict the position of each tracked object in the current
frame.
2) Calculate a matrix representing the assignment cost
from the detected objects in the current frame and the
predicted positions of the tracked objects.
3) Solve the assignment problem using the Hungarian
algorithm [14].
Here, the prediction of an object’s position is performed using
a Kalman filter [15]. If an object detected in the current
frame is associated with a tracked object, the velocity of the
tracked object is estimated using the detected bounding box.
Frameworks such as SORT, which perform object tracking
using the results of object detection (bounding boxes), are
referred to as tracking-by-detection.
DeepSORT [16] is an improved version of SORT that
utilizes appearance information of objects. In DeepSORT,
detected bounding boxes are first fed into a pre-trained CNN,
from which features reflecting the appearance of the object,
known as appearance descriptors, are extracted. Subsequently,
when associating detected objects with those being tracked,
the cosine similarity between appearance descriptors is calcu-
lated to reduce the assignment cost for objects with similar
appearances.
ByteTrack [17] is an object tracking method that, unlike
existing methods which use only bounding boxes with high
confidence scores for tracking, utilizes almost all bounding
boxes regardless of their confidence scores. In ByteTrack,
tracked objects are first associated with bounding boxes that
have high confidence scores. If this association fails, the
tracked objects are then assigned to bounding boxes with
lower confidence scores. ByteTrack’s use of bounding boxes
with low confidence scores makes it a robust model against
occlusions caused by obstacles.
While methods like DeepSORT use appearance information
for MOT, distinguishing eggplants based solely on appearance
can be challenging. Therefore, our method employs SORT, a
relatively simple algorithm that relies solely on the position
of objects.
III. OUR METHOD
A. Requirements for our method
The requirements for our method are as follows:
• The method must be applicable in a typical agricultural
greenhouse composed of multiple rows of ridges.
• It must be able to count the number of fruits in the entire
greenhouse, not just a part of it.
• The method should be applicable specifically to egg-
plants.
• It must be able to count the number of fruits on a daily
basis.
• The method should be executable with commonly avail-
able GPU resources, such as those provided by Google
Colaboratory [18].
Considering the growth speed of the crops, it is practical to
count the number of fruits on a daily basis. Therefore, our
method does not require real-time processing, and instead of
edge devices, it can utilize cloud environments for computa-
tional resources.
33
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:44:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

B. Details of our method
In our method, by counting the number of fruits on each
ridge, we calculate the total number of fruits in the entire
greenhouse. The entire ridge is captured using an RGB camera
mounted on a trolley (Fig. 4 and Fig. 5). In typical agricultural
greenhouses, trolleys designed to travel at a constant speed
for applications such as pesticide spraying are available. It is
considered that by mounting a camera on the existing trolley,
it is possible to capture video and count fruits while other
tasks are being performed with the trolley.
Fig. 4.
The trolley used for capture (left). A smartphone was used as the
RGB camera, which was mounted on the trolley through a stabilizer to reduce
image blur caused by the trolley’s vibrations due to the motor-driven operation
(right).
Fig. 5.
Method for capturing the entire ridge. When capturing a different
ridge, it is necessary to move the trolley to a different rail.
We add a post-processing step to the combination of an
existing object detection model and object tracking model,
which removes fruits from the ridges that are not targeted for
counting from the detection results. The processing pipeline
of our method is as follows, in chronological order:
1) Video footage of the ridges is captured by an RGB
camera equipped on a trolley that travels at a constant
speed along the pathways between the ridges.
2) The video footage is input into an object detection model
frame by frame, obtaining the bounding box of the fruits
in each frame.
3) The bounding boxes from each frame are input into an
object tracking model, which establishes the correspon-
dence of the fruits across the frames.
4) The average speed of each fruit in the captured video
footage is calculated. Fruits whose average speed is
below a certain threshold are determined to be from
ridges not targeted for measurement and are removed
from the detection results.
To count only the fruits on the ridges in the foreground, we
utilize the principle of motion parallax, where closer objects
appear to move faster and distant objects move slower. Since
the trolley equipped with the camera moves at a constant
speed, fruits whose average velocity is below a certain thresh-
old can be removed from the detection results, ensuring that
only the fruits on the targeted foreground ridges are counted
(Fig. 6).
Fig. 6. The difference in displacement between the front fruit and the back
fruit. When progressing from frame i to frame j, the fruit enclosed in green
rectangles shows greater displacement due to being closer to the camera,
whereas the fruit enclosed in red rectangles shows less displacement due to
being farther from the camera.
To calculate the average speed of a particular eggplant fruit,
we define the frame in which the fruit is first detected as
frame i and the next detection frame as frame j. The center
coordinates of the fruit’s bounding box in frames i and j are
(xi, yi) and (xj, yj), respectively. The displacement of the fruit
between frames i and j is given by:
q
(xj −xi)2 + (yj −yi)2
(1)
and the speed is expressed as:
p
(xj −xi)2 + (yj −yi)2
j −i
(2)
By calculating the speed for all frames where the fruit is
detected and averaging these, the average speed of the fruit
is obtained. After calculating the average speed of all fruits,
those with an average speed below a threshold are identified as
fruits of the background ridge and removed from the detection
results. The threshold is a hyperparameter in our method and
must be adjusted before using the model.
44
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:44:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

C. Implementation
We used an iPhone 13 as the RGB camera. The resolution of
the captured video was 1080p, and the frame rate was 30 fps.
The iPhone 13 was mounted on a trolley, which was driven
at a constant speed of approximately 0.4 m/s to capture video
footage of the entire ridge.
Each frame of the captured video was processed through
the object detection model to obtain the bounding boxes of the
eggplants in each frame. We used the YOLOv5 model, which
was trained on a dataset initially comprising 180 images of
eggplants collected from the Internet and an actual greenhouse.
To prepare the model for varying sunlight conditions in the
greenhouse, brightness augmentation was applied, doubling
the dataset to 360 images. Augmentation refers to the creation
of new images for training by transforming existing images,
and this time only the brightness was altered. The accuracy
of the object detection task was verified using 10 test data
samples, where YOLOv5 achieved a mean average precision
(mAP) @50 of 0.75. The test data were created by the authors
annotating images captured in an actual greenhouse.
To establish the correspondence of detected eggplants across
frames, the bounding boxes from each frame were input into an
object tracking model. We employed the SORT object tracking
algorithm.
Finally, fruits with an average speed below a threshold
were removed from the detection results. The threshold was
set by using a portion of the created ground truth data for
hyperparameter tuning, ensuring that the number of fruits in
the ground truth closely matched the number of fruits in the
model’s output. The actual threshold value was set at 21,
which means that fruits moving less than 21 pixels on average
between frames were considered as background and removed.
The above process was conducted by uploading videos cap-
tured on an iPhone 13 to Google Colaboratory and executing a
Python program on Google Colaboratory. The GPU used was
an NVIDIA Tesla T4 [19].
IV. EVALUATION
A. Data Collection
The evaluation data were collected from an actual green-
house in Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan. Data collection was
carried out on two separate occasions, with video footage
of the same ridge captured each time. Both datasets were
recorded during daylight hours, specifically on March 16 and
March 23, 2023. From the data collected on both occasions,
ten-second sequences of consecutive frames were randomly
extracted, and annotations serving as ground truth labels were
added to each frame. In total, 596 frames were annotated
for evaluation. We labeled those frames using an annotation
assistance software called FastLabel [20]. One set of the data
was used to adjust the model’s hyperparameters, and the other
was used for calculating evaluation metrics. In addition to the
video data, we manually counted the actual number of fruits
on the captured ridge to compare with the model’s estimates.
The counting was conducted visually from the aisles, moving
leaves aside and using a tally counter.
B. Object tracking metrics
Since the count of each individual eggplant fruit involves
assigning a unique ID, fruit counting is inherently a task of
object tracking. We used object tracking metrics such as IDP
(ID precision), IDR (ID recall), and IDF1 (ID F1 score). These
identity-based metrics [21] place more emphasis on tracking
rather than detection. Tracking accuracy is considered more
critical for fruit counting, hence we employed these metrics.
Another well-known object tracking metric, MOTA [22], is
more influenced by detection rather than tracking, and was
therefore deemed inappropriate for this evaluation and not
used. The evaluation results of the existing methods and our
method, based on identity-based metrics, are shown in Table
I.
TABLE I
EVALUATION RESULTS OF EXISTING AND OUR METHODS USING
EVALUATION METRICS FOR OBJECT TRACKING
Method
IDP
IDR
IDF1
SORT
0.462
0.756
0.574
ByteTrack
0.410
0.553
0.471
Ours
0.683
0.741
0.711
Our method builds on the existing SORT algorithm, enhanced
by a post-processing step to remove non-target fruits. While
this has led to an improvement in precision compared to SORT,
the recall has deteriorated. Despite this, the overall F1 score
has improved.
C. The number of fruits in the ground truth labels
The number of eggplant fruits appearing in the 10-second
frames with annotations was 88. The outputs of the existing
method and our method for this are shown in Table II.
TABLE II
COMPARISON WITH THE GROUND TRUTH LABELS
Method
Prediction
Error
SORT
153
0.739
ByteTrack
138
0.568
Ours
85
-0.034
These results show that the existing method predicted more
fruits compared to the ground truth, as it also counts the fruits
on the ridges in the background of the video.
D. Comparison between the number of fruits visible in the
video and the actual number of fruits
On the same day that the evaluation data used in Table II
was collected, we confirmed 346 fruits in the targeted ridge.
The evaluation data consists of frames captured over a 10-
second period, but we determined that it takes 36 seconds
to capture the entire ridge with the trolley. Therefore, by
multiplying the number of fruits visible in the 10-second
video, which is 88, by 3.6, it is estimated that about 317 fruits
are visible in the video. This is approximately -8% of the
actual number of fruits, which is 346.
55
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:44:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

V. DISCUSSION
According to Table
I, our method outperforms SORT in
terms of IDP and IDF1 scores, while it falls short in IDR. This
indicates that in the post-processing step of our method, while
retaining the true positive detections, it successfully reduces
the false positive results. It can be inferred that our method
effectively removes only the fruits belonging to the ridges in
the background from the detection results.
Despite the actual number of eggplants being 346, the
estimated count in the video is slightly lower at 317. This
discrepancy can be attributed to fruits being hidden behind
leaves and not appearing in the video. In our method, we have
mounted an RGB camera on the trolley with a fixed angle.
Consequently, it is likely that some fruits will not appear in
the video due to blind spots.
According to our results, the SORT object tracking method
showed superior results over ByteTrack in all evaluation
metrics: IDP, IDR, and IDF1. ByteTrack, proposed as an
improvement to SORT, is generally considered to be more
accurate. It is speculated that in the use case of this research,
where the tracked objects, eggplant fruits, remain stationary,
the consistent spacing between the fruits across frames may
advantageously influence the Hungarian algorithm employed
by SORT.
Our method is considered to be generally applicable for
counting stationary objects in agricultural greenhouses. The
method utilizes bounding boxes, outputs from an object detec-
tion model, to count objects. By simply replacing the object
detection model, this method can also be applied to other
crops, such as tomatoes, or even to counting flowers instead
of fruits.
VI. LIMITATIONS
A limitation of this paper is the small size of the evaluation
data. Although evaluations have been conducted using approx-
imately 600 images according to object tracking metrics, and
the results of these metrics are somewhat reliable, the data was
collected over only two days. This means that the robustness
of the model against changes in lighting conditions, such as
on cloudy days, has not been adequately tested.
Another limitation mentioned in this paper is the discrep-
ancy between the number of fruits visible in the video and
the actual number of fruits present in the greenhouse. In the
experiments conducted in this paper, the number of fruits
visible in the video was about 8% less than the actual number,
often due to being obscured by leaves. To use our method for
estimating the actual number of fruits, it is necessary to adjust
the model’s output values (the count of fruits in the video) by
applying a constant factor. This constant for adjustment needs
to be estimated through further repeated experiments.
VII. CONCLUSIONS
In this paper, we propose a method to accurately count the
number of eggplant fruits throughout the entire greenhouse
using a commonly equipped trolley and an inexpensive RGB
camera, by utilizing object detection, object tracking algo-
rithms, and the principles of motion parallax. The results of
our evaluation using data collected in an actual greenhouse
suggested that our method was superior than existing methods
for object tracking and comparisons with the actual number
of fruits.
REFERENCES
[1] International
Society
of
Precision
Agriculture.
“Precision
Ag
Definition.”
International
Society
of
Precision
Agriculture.
https://www.ispag.org/about/definition (accessed May 30, 2024).
[2] The University of Vermont. “Balancing Vegetative and Reproductive
Growth
in
Greenhouse
Tomatoes.”
The
University
of
Vermont.
https://www.uvm.edu/vtvegandberry/factsheets/VegetativeReproductiveG
HTomato.pdf (accessed Aug. 7, 2024).
[3] A. I. B. Parico and T. Ahamed, “Real Time Pear Fruit Detection and
Counting Using YOLOv4 Models and Deep SORT,” Sensors, vol. 21,
no. 14, p. 4803, July 2021.
[4] Y. Ge et al., “Tracking and Counting of Tomato at Different Growth
Period Using an Improving YOLO-Deepsort Network for Inspection
Robot,” Machines, vol. 10, no. 6, p. 489, June 2022.
[5] F. Gao et al., “A novel apple fruit detection and counting methodology
based on deep learning and trunk tracking in modern orchard,” Com-
puters and Electronics in Agriculture, vol. 197, no. 107000, June 2022.
[6] L. Liu et al., “Deep Learning for Generic Object Detection: A Survey,”
International Journal of Computer Vision, vol. 128, pp. 261–318, Sept.
2020.
[7] S. Ren, K. He, R. Girshick, and J. Sun, “Faster R-CNN: Towards Real-
Time Object Detection with Region Proposal Networks,” presented at
the Conf. on Neural Information Processing Systems, Cambridge, MA,
USA, Dec. 2015, pp. 91–99.
[8] R. Girshick, “Fast R-CNN,” presented at the International Conf. on
Computer Vision, Santiago, Chile, Dec. 2015, pp. 1440–1448.
[9] J. Redmon, S. Divvala, R. B. Girshick, and A. Farhadi, “You Only Look
Once: Unified, Real-Time Object Detection,” presented at the Conf. on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Las Vegas, USA, June 2016,
pp. 779-788.
[10] J. Redmon and A. Farhadi, “YOLO9000: Better, Faster, Stronger,”
presented at the Conf. on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition,
Honolulu, USA, July 2017, pp. 6517-6525.
[11] J. Redmon and A. Farhadi, “YOLOv3: An Incremental Improvement,”
2018, arXiv:1804.02767.
[12] A. Bochkovskiy, C. Wang, and H. M. Liao, “YOLOv4: Optimal Speed
and Accuracy of Object Detection,” 2020, arXiv:2004.10934.
[13] A. Bewley, Z. Ge, L. Ott, F. Ramos, and B. Upcroft, “Simple online and
realtime tracking,” presented at the IEEE Int. Conf. on Image Processing,
Phoenix, AZ, USA, Sept. 2016, pp. 3464-3468.
[14] H. W. Kuhn, “The Hungarian method for the assignment problem,”
Naval Research Logistics Quarterly, vol. 2, no. 1-2, pp. 83-97, Mar.
1955.
[15] R. E. Kalman, “A New Approach to Linear Filtering and Prediction
Problems,” Journal of Basic Engineering, vol. 82, no. 1, p. 35, Mar.
1960.
[16] N. Wojke, A. Bewley, and D. Paulus, “Simple online and realtime
tracking with a deep association metric,” presented at the IEEE Int.
Conf. on Image Processing, Beijing, China, Sept. 2017, pp. 3645-3649.
[17] Y. Zhang et al., “ByteTrack: Multi-object Tracking by Associating Every
Detection Box,” presented at the European Conf. on Computer Vision,
Tel Aviv, Israel, Oct. 2022, pp. 1–21.
[18] Google.
“Welcome
To
Colab.”
Google.
https://colab.research.google.com/ (accessed Aug. 15, 2024).
[19] Nvidia.
“NVIDIA
T4.”
Nvidia.
https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/data-
center/tesla-t4/ (accessed Aug. 15, 2024).
[20] FastLabel. “FastLabel.” FastLabel. https://fastlabel.ai/en (accessed Aug.
15, 2024).
[21] E. Ristani, F. Solera, R. S. Zou, R. Cucchiara, and C. Tomasi, “Perfor-
mance Measures and a Data Set for Multi-Target, Multi-Camera Track-
ing,” presented at the European Conf. on Computer Vision, Amsterdam,
The Netherlands, Oct. 2016, pp. 17–35.
[22] K. Bernardin and R. Stiefelhagen, “Evaluating Multiple Object Tracking
Performance: The CLEAR MOT Metrics,” EURASIP Journal on Image
and Video Processing, vol. 2008, no. 246309, May 2008.
66
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:44:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
