Smart Agricultural Technology 10 (2025) 100874
Available online 3 March 2025
2772-3755/© 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-
nc-nd/4.0/).
Mandarin count estimation with 360-degree tree video and 
transformer-based deep learning
Daisuke Isobe a,b, Prawit Buayai c, Xiaoyang Mao c,*
a Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, University of Yamanashi, Japan
b Department of Computer Science and Technology, Faculty of Computer Science, Hangzhou Dianzi University, China
c Graduate Faculty of Interdisciplinary Research, University of Yamanashi, 4-3-11 Takeda, Kofu, Yamanashi 400-8511, Japan
A R T I C L E I N F O
Keywords:
Count estimation
Occlusion handling
Video task
Deep neural network
A B S T R A C T
In mandarin orange production, knowing the number of mandarins on a tree is crucial for performing appro­
priate thinning operations. This is necessary to prevent overbearing and to maintain the size and quality of 
individual mandarins. However, the dense foliage of mandarin trees often obscures many fruits. Before thinning, 
a tree can have several hundred to several thousand mandarins, making manual counting not only labor- 
intensive but also exceedingly difficult. This study proposes a novel technology for automatically estimating 
the number of small, unripe mandarins before thinning operations using 360-degree videos of the trees. A deep 
neural network model leveraging Transformer architecture is designed to fuse features from various viewing 
angles. State-of-the-art (SOTA) unsupervised pre-training techniques, along with a custom-designed loss func­
tion, are employed to tackle the challenge of limited training data and to enhance the model’s capability to 
capture global contextual features from images taken at multiple angles. Experimental results demonstrate that 
the proposed method significantly outperforms existing methods.
1. Introduction
Predicting the number of fruits is useful for planning sales, allocating 
necessary labor, facilities, and materials [7]. Additionally, it is essential 
for deciding the extent of thinning required to prevent biennial bearing 
and maintain fruit size and quality [15]. Since manually counting fruits 
is time-consuming, it is not a feasible method for farmers. Consequently, 
the estimation of fruit numbers using computer vision and deep learning 
has been attracting considerable attention recently.
Several studies have been conducted on estimating the number of 
fruits. Wulfsohn et al. [27] sampled fruits from individual trees at the 
time of harvest to estimate total harvest volume. This study requires 
prior knowledge of the number and structure of branches for appro­
priate sampling. Additionally, miscounts can occur within the complex 
canopy. Anderson et al. [1] estimated the total harvest volume by 
sampling trees in the field at the time of mango harvest and examining 
the actual number of fruits on the sampled trees. This method incurs 
high manual labor costs. Additionally, there are studies predicting yield 
using Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) [2,9,19], but UAVs may require 
special permits depending on the surrounding environment of the field 
and the laws and regulations of the country.
Dorj et al. [7] and Malik et al. [20] used a single RGB image of a 
mandarin tree along with traditional image processing algorithms to 
detect and count the fruits. This method is significantly affected by the 
weather and shooting environment when extracting features from RGB 
images. Kestur et al. [13] used a single RGB image of a mango tree and a 
deep neural network (DNN) model to detect and count the fruits. Chen 
et al. [5] used a single RGB image of a tree and a DNN to detect and 
count the fruits of apples and mandarins. Zhang et al. [30] used RGB 
videos and a DNN to detect and track fruits on a row of mandarin trees. 
These methods count the number of fruits visible from a particular 
shooting direction and do not estimate the total fruit count on the entire 
tree. Gao et al. [10] used RGB images taken from multiple viewpoints to 
count the visible apples on an entire tree. This method addresses the 
limitation of relying on a single image but still only accounts for visible 
fruits, neglecting those completely obscured by leaves. Given that 
mandarin trees are dense with foliage and many mandarins are hidden 
by leaves, it is crucial to account for those not visible on the surface; 
thus, merely detecting and tracking the visible ones is inadequate. 
Gongal et al. [11] estimated the number of fruits on apple trees by uti­
lizing images captured from both the front and back of the tree. Koirala 
et al. [14] also estimated the number of fruits on mango trees using 
* Corresponding author.
E-mail address: mao@yamanashi.ac.jp (X. Mao). 
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Smart Agricultural Technology
journal homepage: www.journals.elsevier.com/smart-agricultural-technology
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.atech.2025.100874
Received 10 December 2024; Received in revised form 27 February 2025; Accepted 28 February 2025  

Smart Agricultural Technology 10 (2025) 100874
2
images taken from both the front and back of the tree, based on the 
number and density of the fruits visible in the images. These methods 
necessitate capturing the entire tree in a single image, a requirement not 
always practical in real-world settings due to spatial limitations. 
Although mango trees might have sparse foliage, making this approach 
more feasible, mandarin trees are typically more densely foliated, which 
can lead to a significant number of fruits remaining hidden from view 
when images are only taken from the front and back of the tree.
Recent studies in deep learning are advancing rapidly. In the field of 
computer vision, DNNs are now applied not only to images but also to 
video-related tasks. Current applications of DNNs in video include object 
detection and action recognition. Models such as ViViT [3] and TubeViT 
[21] have been proposed for these tasks. ViViT and TubeViT are based 
on the Vision Transformer (ViT) architecture (Dosovitskiy et al. [8]), 
which is known for its effective self-attention mechanism for capturing 
global context within images. ViT is designed for an input image size of 
224 × 224, leading to significantly increased computational and mem­
ory demands when processing video clips with a large number of frames. 
Adapting these models for video content introduces the challenge of 
excessive computational costs, making the direct application of ViViT or 
TubeViT to this study less feasible. However, employing a 
Transformer-based architecture like ViT could be beneficial for under­
standing the relationships between frames. The Video Swin Trans­
former, introduced by Liu et al. [18] based on the Swin Transformer by 
Liu et al. [17], incorporates the 3D Shifted Window-based Multi-Head 
Self-Attention (MSA) module. This module is predicated on the notion 
that video frames are sampled densely. Consequently, the model’s 
ability to effectively capture features across frames may diminish with 
sparse sampling unless modifications are made.
Given the labor-intensive nature of manually counting the number of 
mandarins on trees to establish a ground truth dataset, determining how 
to effectively train the proposed model with a limited dataset represents 
one of the most significant challenges of this research. It is known that 
pre-training using a large dataset with similar features can be effective in 
solving this problem. However, when creating a custom DNN model 
tailored to the objectives of the research, there might not always be a 
large dataset available for pre-training. To adequately train our model 
even with only a small dataset, we propose a method inspired by recent 
unsupervised pre-training approaches, such as the Masked Auto Encoder 
[12], SimMIM [28], and Swin MAE [29]. These methods involve 
masking portions of images and reconstructing the pixel values for the 
masked areas using the information from the unmasked pixel regions. By 
enhancing the model’s capability of referring to global context, this 
approach has proven to be effective for pre-training models like ViT and 
Swin Transformer. As shown with ConvNeXt V2 [26], employing 
training innovations such as skipping the feature extraction of the 
masked parts has proven effective even for CNN architectures. Addi­
tionally, as reported with Swin MAE, the Masked Auto Encoder method 
has proven to be effective even for small datasets. There are also studies 
like VideoMAE V2 [24] that extend the Masked Auto Encoder approach 
to videos to improve accuracy. However, as mentioned previously, 
direct usage of ViT models like ViViT is not feasible for the model pro­
posed in this study. Therefore, it is necessary to customize the Masked 
Auto Encoder approach accordingly for our new model architecture.
In this study, we propose a novel system that leverages state-of-the- 
art deep learning techniques to estimate the number of small and unripe 
mandarins from RGB videos captured by mobile devices such as 
smartphones or tablets. This approach eliminates the need for special­
ized equipment, thereby offering a practical solution for farmers. 
Crucially, we address the challenge of occluded fruits by integrating 
multi-angle imagery, enabling the model to capture a more compre­
hensive global context of the tree canopy.
A key innovation of our work is the application of a Masked 
Autoencoder for unsupervised pre-training. By incorporating this state- 
of-the-art technique, along with a custom-designed loss function, we 
overcome the issue of limited training data and enhance the model’s 
ability to learn global contextual features from various viewing angles. 
We evaluated our proposed method using data collected from a major 
mandarin orange production region in Japan. Experimental results 
demonstrate that our system significantly outperforms existing ap­
proaches [5,14], highlighting both the effectiveness of the Masked 
Autoencoder-based pre-training and the practical value of our 
multi-angle estimation strategy. The main contributions of this paper 
can be summarized as flows: 
• We propose a system that uses deep learning to estimate the number 
of small, unripe mandarins from RGB videos captured by mobile 
devices, offering a practical solution without the need for specialized 
equipment.
• We address occluded fruits by integrating multi-angle imagery, 
capturing a more comprehensive view of the tree canopy.
• We apply a Masked Autoencoder for unsupervised pre-training, 
enhancing the model’s ability to learn global features from limited 
data.
• We evaluate the method using data from Japan’s mandarin pro­
duction region, showing superior performance compared to existing 
approaches.
2. Materials and methods
2.1. Data collection
Data collection on mandarins was conducted in Setoda Town, Ono­
michi City, Hiroshima Prefecture, Japan, in 2022 and 2023. A photo­
graph of a mandarin orange field is shown in Fig. 1. The variety of 
mandarin is Early Satsuma Mandarin, and the age of the mandarin trees 
ranges from 15 to 40 years. The tablets used for filming were the iPad 
Pro 11-inch (4th generation) and the iPad Pro 12.9-inch (6th 
Fig. 1. The image of mandarin farm.
D. Isobe et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    

Smart Agricultural Technology 10 (2025) 100874
3
generation). Mandarin trees were filmed using the camera function of a 
tablet device, ensuring that the entire tree fit within the frame as much 
as possible while circling around the tree for a 360-degree view. The 
filming criteria were as follows: shoot in vertical video format, include 
both the upper and lower parts of the tree within the frame as much as 
possible, and take measures to prevent out-of-focus shots and camera 
shake. Following this policy, the distance between the tree and the 
camera was approximately 1 m. However, the distance varied slightly 
depending on the space between the trees and the uneven footing in the 
field. These captured videos are in RGB format. The number of man­
darins on each tree was manually counted to be used as the ground truth 
for training and validation. Data collection was conducted before the 
thinning operation, and the fruits on the mandarin trees were small and 
unripe.
Fig. 2 illustrates the distribution of the number of trees for which 
video data and the counted number of mandarins have been collected. 
The horizontal axis represents the range of the number of mandarins on 
a tree, while the vertical axis indicates the number of trees (videos) with 
mandarin counts falling within that range. Trees with an extremely low 
number of mandarins due to the alternate-bearing phenomenon were 
excluded, as they were not originally targeted for thinning. As a result, 
the range of mandarins counted on the collected trees was between 300 
and 1200. The average number of mandarins was 685.19, with a stan­
dard deviation of 253.79, and the coefficient of variation was 0.37039. 
The collected data comprised videos of 89 trees with known numbers of 
mandarins and 73 trees with unknown numbers of mandarins.
2.2. Materials and methods overview of the proposed method
The outline of the proposed mandarin count estimation method is 
shown in Fig. 3. Once farmers have captured a 360-degree RGB video of 
a mandarin tree, a specified number of frames are sampled from the 
video (2.5). Mask images of the mandarins are created from each frame’s 
RGB image (2.4), and then both the RGB images and the mask images 
are input into the estimation model to predict the number of mandarins 
(2.3). As presented in 2.1, the data on mandarin trees used in this study 
is limited. To address this issue, improvements to the loss function (2.6) 
and pre-training of the encoder using Masked Auto Encoder (2.7) are 
conducted during the training stage.
2.3. Proposed number estimation model
The structure of the proposed model is shown in Fig. 4. For the 
multiple frames obtained from the 360-degree video (see 2.5), feature 
extraction is performed for each frame using a Convolutional Neural 
Network (CNN), and the features from all frames are fed into a Temporal 
Swin Transformer to extract global features related to the number of 
mandarins. Finally, a Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP) is used to estimate 
the number of mandarins utilizing the features obtained from the 
Temporal Swin Transformer.
2.3.1. Feature extraction for each frame
CNN takes an RGB image and the mask image of mandarins as input. 
The diagram of the CNN is shown in Fig. 5. To extract features from RGB 
images, the ConvNeXt V2 Block structure proposed by Woo et al. [26] 
was used. In this research, the RGB feature extractor was constructed 
based on ConvNeXt V2 nano. The channel and block settings of the stem 
layer and the first block were the same as those in Woo et al. [26]: the 
channel setting was 80, and the block setting of the first block was 2. The 
channel and block settings of the second block were changed from those 
in Woo et al. [26]: the channel setting was 160, and the block setting was 
6. The third block and beyond were omitted. For feature extraction from 
the mask images of mandarins, a stem layer producing a 16-channel 
feature map and a simple convolutional layer with an activation func­
tion that also outputs a 16-channel feature map were utilized, 
comprising two layers as proposed by Woo et al. [26].
2.3.2. Feature extraction across frames
The Temporal Swin Transformer consolidates features extracted by 
CNNs from multiple frames and reconstructs the global features essential 
for estimating the number of mandarins on the entire tree. Fig. 6 shows 
the structure of the Temporal Swin Transformer. For each frame ob­
tained from the CNNs, P × P patching and positional embedding were 
performed as in ViT (Dosovitskiy et al. [8]). The length of the input 
sequence for each frame was length = WʹHʹ
P2 , where Wʹ and Hʹ are repre­
sented as the width and height of features extracted by CNNs and P is 
represent patch size, with token was D. Since this is a video task, there is 
a time axis that needs to be connected to the sequence axis. Video Swin 
Transformer proposed by Liu et al. [18] was designed to process 3D 
features through the Transformer architecture by incorporating both 
Fig. 2. . The number of collected videos(=trees) by the range of mandarin count.
D. Isobe et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    

Smart Agricultural Technology 10 (2025) 100874
4
Fig. 3. Overview of the proposed method.
Fig. 4. Overview of the proposed number estimation model.
Fig. 5. The structure of CNN(C: Channel, B: Layer).
Fig. 6. The structure of temporal swin transformer (window size = 2).
D. Isobe et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    

Smart Agricultural Technology 10 (2025) 100874
5
spatial features and temporal features within windows. This dual 
approach aimed to leverage the intricate dynamics of spatial and tem­
poral data for enhanced model understanding. However, the present 
study takes a different approach with its version of the Video Swin 
Transformer. Here, the model inputs 3D features exclusively through 
temporal windows, eschewing the spatial dimension. This methodo­
logical pivot is justified by the study’s adoption of a sparse frame sam­
pling technique, as opposed to a dense one, coupled with the observed 
low similarity between consecutive frames. In this study, tokens for each 
frame were connected to the sequence axis, so the length of the input 
sequence was widow size∗WʹHʹ
P2 
as shown in Fig. 6. These tokens were input to 
the Transformer to extract features between frames. To extract features 
between different adjacent frames from the first transformer, the tokens 
of each frame were reconnected to the sequence axis again by shifting 
the windows size
2
. These . These tokens were input to the second Trans­
former. Fig. 6 shows an example with a window size of 2, but the actual 
window size was set to 4. In addition, two layers of Temporal Swin 
Transformer were prepared (N = 2).
Furthermore, this study incorporates a structural enhancement by 
adopting the B2T (Bottom-to-Top) connection, as proposed by Takase 
et al. [23]. This connection balances stable convergence and the model’s 
performance. According to the previous study by Takase et al. [23], the 
B2T connection has the ability to stabilize Transformer learning and 
improve prediction accuracy. Therefore, the B2T connection was chosen 
for this study.
2.3.3. Estimation of the number of mandarins from features
The MLP estimates the number of mandarins using the features ob­
tained from the Temporal Swin Transformer. Fig. 7 shows the diagram of 
the proposed MLP, where the process is divided into two parts: one for 
feature extraction and aggregation for each patch obtained from the 
output of the Temporal Swin Transformer, and the other for feature 
extraction and aggregation within the same frame. The final fully con­
nected layer (FC) estimates the number of mandarins from the features 
of all frames. LayerNorm was used before each FC layer for normaliza­
tion purposes; while ReLU was used after each FC layer for activation. 
Since laying out all the features from all frames in one dimension from 
the start would require memory to store weights for the MLP and 
gradient values for backpropagation, which could decrease computa­
tional efficiency, our model aggregates the features using common 
weights until the number of features becomes sufficiently small. The 
output dimension of the features after passing through the FC and 
MaxPool layers was calculated by dividing the input dimension by n, as 
shown in Fig. 7. In the process of feature extraction and aggregation for 
each patch, the first FC layer was prepared by setting n as 2. In the first 
concat, the feature vectors were concatenated so that the features in 
each patch were aligned in the same frame. For the process of feature 
extraction and aggregation within the same frame, n was set as 2, 11, 
and 2 respectively for the MaxPool and two FC layers, as shown in Fig. 7. 
In the second concat, the feature vectors were concatenated so that the 
features from all frames were aligned into one feature vector. In the 
process of feature extraction and aggregation for all frames, n was 
changed to 2, 8, and 3 respectively for the MaxPool and two FC layers. 
Finally, the number of mandarins was obtained as the output.
2.4. Generation of mandarin mask videos
The generation of mandarin mask videos involves using an instance 
segmentation model to detect the mandarins. For this purpose, the 
Mask2Former model [6] was utilized. The backbone of Mask2Former is 
Swin-S [17]. A model pre-trained on MSCOCO [16] was fine-tuned using 
images of mandarins and a custom annotation file created specifically 
for mandarin fruits. The results of the instance segmentation are shown 
in Fig. 8.
2.5. Selection of frames
The selection of multiple frames is key to successfully extracting 
informative features required for mandarin count estimation. Mandarins 
can be occluded by leaves in images captured from certain angles. By 
using multiple frames taken from different viewing angles, it is possible 
to reveal mandarins that are otherwise hidden. To obtain an informative 
set of frames, it is essential to avoid selecting frames captured from 
similar angles.
This study does not utilize fruit tracking, as proposed by Zhang et al. 
[30], or structure-from-motion methods. The primary reason is that both 
approaches present significant limitations for our specific use case. Fruit 
tracking and structure-from-motion methods face challenges when 
dealing with occlusions, particularly in videos captured while rotating 
around an object. In this study, mandarins are often occluded by leaves, 
and the complex shape of the tree canopy makes it extremely difficult to 
maintain consistent tracking of the fruits.
To address these challenges, we employed a different approach: 
selecting 2D frames using two distinct methods—one based on the 
required number of frames and the other on the accumulated differences 
between frames. This approach avoids the complexity associated with 
3D tracking or motion-based methods, offering a simpler yet effective 
way to ensure adequate visual coverage of the tree, even in the presence 
of occlusions and a dense canopy. The proposed frame selection method 
provides a robust solution while circumventing the limitations inherent 
in fruit tracking and structure-from-motion techniques.
Fig. 9 shows an example of frame selection based on the required 
number of frames, while Fig. 10 shows an example of frame selection 
based on accumulated differences between frames. Both Fig. 9 and 
Fig. 10 are derived from frames selected from the same video, demon­
strating two different approaches to selecting frames from identical 
input data.
2.6. Based on the required number of frames
In this method, the ith representative frame is selected based on the 
value calculated using the following formula: 
framei =
⌊N
F ∗i
⌋
+ 1 i = 0, 1, …F −1
(1) 
where F is the required number of frames to be input into the deep 
learning model, N is the total number of frames in the video.
This is the simplest method and requires the least amount of time to 
extract frames. However, it does not account for variations in camera 
movement speed during video recording, assuming that the camera 
moves at a constant speed along the circumference throughout the 
recording. Consequently, this method may result in sampling more 
similar frames from angles where the camera moves slowly, while 
insufficient frames may be captured from angles where the camera 
moves quickly.
Fig. 7. The structure of MLP.
D. Isobe et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    

Smart Agricultural Technology 10 (2025) 100874
6
2.6.1. Based on accumulated difference between frames
The basic idea of this method is that an informative frame set should 
consist of frames that exhibit significant differences from each other. To 
select such frames, we define Diff as a metric to measure the degree of 
difference between two frames. We utilize Structural Similarity Index 
(SSIM) [25] a metric for evaluating the similarity of image structures, to 
calculate the degree of difference Diff. Since SSIM values range from 
0 (least similar) to 1 (most similar), Diff can be computed as: 
Diff = 1 −SSIM
(2) 
As the camera gradually moves, frames that are immediately adja­
cent typically exhibit a high degree of similarity. Therefore, we accu­
mulate the Diff values between adjacent frames and select the frames 
when the accumulated Diff reaches or exceeds a certain threshold. 
Denoting the number of frames to be selected as F and the total accu­
mulated Diff values of all adjacent frame pairs as SUM, then the 
threshold Ti for selecting ith frame can be computed as: 
Ti = SUM ∗i / F i = 0, 1, …F −1
(3) 
Below is the pseudo-code of the algorithm for selecting frames based 
on the accumulated Diff values. It consists of two steps. The first step 
builds a list of accumulated Diff values, with each element representing 
the accumulated Diff for the corresponding frame. The second step se­
lects representative frames based on this accumulated Diff list.
Algoritham 1
Fig. 8. Detection results of mandarins and their mask images. Left images are raw RGB images. Center images are the result of mandarins detection. Right images are 
mandarins mask images.
D. Isobe et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    

Smart Agricultural Technology 10 (2025) 100874
7
2.7. Improvement of loss function for preventing overfitting
Typically, regression problems use L1Loss or L2Loss. These loss 
functions aim to force the model’s predicted values to match the ground 
truth values exactly. In datasets with a wide range of ground truth values 
and limited dataset size, it is conceivable that the model could overfit, 
leading to decreased accuracy on unseen data. Therefore, this study 
proposes the following loss function. 
WeakL1Loss = Max(L1Loss −α ∗Ground Truth, 0)
(4) 
This loss function aims to stop training when the predicted value falls 
within an error tolerance range of ±α ∗ground truth. This approach al­
lows for a tolerance in the prediction error, helping to prevent the model 
from overfitting. The proposed loss function selectively focuses on data 
Fig. 8. (continued).
Fig. 9. Examples of frame selection based on the required number of frames.
D. Isobe et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    

Smart Agricultural Technology 10 (2025) 100874
8
Fig. 10. Examples of frame selection based on accumulated difference between frames.
Algorithm 1 
Build frame list by accumulated diff.
1. def get_frame_list(frames: List[frame], F = 12: Number)
2. # first step
3. number_of_frames = len(frames)
4. accumulated_diff_list = [0]
5. for i in range(number_of_frames – 1):
6. diff = 1 – SSIM(frames[i], frames[i+1])
7. accumulated_diff_list.append(accumulated_diff_list.last_element() + diff)
8. # second step
9. sum = accumulated_diff_list.last_element()
10. frame_list = []
11. for j in range(F):
12. target_accumulate_sum = sum * j / F
13. target_frame_idx = get_first_idx_whose_element_has_a_value_not_less_than_val(accumulated_diff_list, target_accumulate_sum)
14. frame_list.append(frames[target_frame_idx])
15. return frame_list
Fig. 11. The model for pre-training.
D. Isobe et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    

Smart Agricultural Technology 10 (2025) 100874
9
with larger errors, enabling for targeted improvement in challenging 
cases while avoiding overfitting to data with already small errors. This 
approach differs from regularization and early stopping, which are 
applied globally across all data. Instead, our method emphasizes 
continuous learning for data points that require the most adjustment, 
ultimately improving the model’s robustness without unnecessary 
overfitting.
2.8. Application of masked auto encoder
The methods proposed by Xu et al. [29] and Wang et al. [24] apply 
the Masked Auto Encoder technique [12] to efficiently train Trans­
formers with a small dataset to achieve improved accuracy. In this study, 
we propose using the Masked Auto Encoder technique for pre-training 
the CNN and Temporal Swin Transformer of the proposed model. The 
model used for the Masked Auto Encoder is shown in Fig. 11. This model 
simply replaces the MLP part of the proposed model with a Decoder 
using Inv-CNN and FC, as proposed by Woo et al. [26]. Although the 
frames are shot from different perspectives, some may capture over­
lapping areas. The aim of this Masked Auto Encoder is to use the Tem­
poral Swin Transformer to reconstruct images, enabling it to extract 
contextual features across frames. The input consists of masked images, 
and the output is reconstructed images. However, masking is only per­
formed on the RGB images, not on the mask images of the mandarins. 
This enables the model to capture features across frames using the 
Temporal Swin Transformer, as well as features between the RGB and 
mask images. Additionally, since this Masked Auto Encoder does not 
require the number of mandarins as ground truth, it can utilize data 
where the number of mandarins is unknown. In this study, as explained 
in 3.1, videos of trees whose number of mandarins is unknown were 
used for pre-training.
3. Experiments and results
3.1. Creation of training and validation datasets
Although the dataset is relatively small, with 89 trees, k-fold cross- 
validation was used to ensure robust validation and effectively handle 
the limited amount of labeled data. This method was chosen to make the 
most out of the available dataset and to ensure that the proposed model 
can generalize well. Given the imbalance in the number of videos per 
number of mandarins, as shown in Fig. 2, it was deemed appropriate to 
create training and validation datasets while maintaining this imbal­
ance. First, groups of G videos were created in ascending order of the 
number of mandarins. Then, K-fold division was performed within each 
video group. In the current implementation, G = 12 and K = 5 were 
chosen. Table 1 shows the number of sub-datasets split by stratified 
K-fold cross-validation.
To increase the amount of training data, multiple sets of F frames 
were sampled from the same video by shifting the starting frame when 
selecting F frames from the candidate list. This approach allows for 
generating more diverse data from the same video by capturing different 
perspectives, thus ensuring better model generalization. The validation 
and test datasets, however, were sampled only once to maintain con­
sistency in evaluation. This data augmentation strategy helps effectively 
increase the training set size without requiring additional data collection 
efforts, making it particularly useful in scenarios with limited available 
videos. The added variability from sampling different sets of frames 
within the same video contributes to improving the robustness of the 
model by exposing it to different viewpoints and conditions.
However, it is important to note that over-reliance on a single video 
source may lead to overfitting to specific conditions. Therefore, using a 
diverse range of videos is advisable to improve generalization. In our 
research, due to the limited number of available videos, this method was 
employed to ensure sufficient training of the deep learning model. This 
technique is likely applicable to other video-related tasks as well, 
making it a versatile approach for expanding training datasets in various 
video analysis scenarios.
For the pre-training dataset used with the Masked Auto Encoder, 
data from the 73 videos of trees with unknown numbers of mandarins 
were also included in each training set after stratified K-fold splitting. 
The Masked Auto Encoder-based pretraining uses an inpainting task 
rather than the mandarin number counting task to enhance the feature 
extraction backbone’s ability to capture contextual information across 
images taken from different view angles. This pretraining method, 
which does not require the ground truth of mandarin numbers, provides 
an effective way to address the challenge of obtaining sufficient training 
data with known mandarin counts. To increase the training data, mul­
tiple samplings were conducted from the same video, even for videos of 
trees with unknown numbers of mandarins.
3.2. Experimental method
3.2.1. Searching for the optimal number of frames
We conducted experiments to determine the appropriate number of 
frames F, as described in 2.5 for selecting the multiple frames into be 
input to the CNN. Considering the RGB videos filmed around the 
circumference of the tree and taking into account overlaps between the 
sampled frames, we experimented with three conditions for F ∈{12,24,
36}. The experiments were conducted with the settings shown in 
Table 2, training on a dataset of trees with known numbers of manda­
rins, using a batch size of 6. The learning rate decreased from the 
original rate to the minimum rate using Cosine Annealing. Data 
augmentation with Random Brightness Contrast was applied with the 
same parameters to the F frames of RGB images in one set of training 
data. Additionally, Random Resized Crop, Horizontal Flip, and Rotation 
were applied with the same parameters to the F frames of both RGB 
images and mandarin mask images in one set of training data.
3.2.2. Pre-training with masked auto encoder
Pre-training with the Masked Auto Encoder was conducted with the 
settings shown in Table 3. Training was performed with a batch size of 6. 
A warmup was used to gradually increase the learning rate from the 
minimum learning rate during the first 15 epochs, after which the 
learning rate was decreased to the minimum learning rate using Cosine 
Annealing. Data augmentation with Random Brightness Contrast was 
Table 1 
Number of trees in groups split by stratified K-fold cross-validation.
K
1
2
3
4
5
Number of videos
18
18
19
16
18
Table 2 
Experimental settings for searching the optimal number of frames.
Config
Settings
​
From scratch
optimizer
AdamW
base learning rate
1e-4
min learning rate
1e-6
weight decay (CNN and Temporal Swin 
Transformer)
0.05
optimizer momentum
β1, β2 = 0.9, 0.95
base batch
6
learning rate schedule
cosine decay
warmup epoch
3
training epoch
30
Random Brightness Contrast
p, brightness, contrast = 0.75, ± 0.2,
± 0.2
Random Resized Crop
p, scale, ratio = 0.7, [0.8, 1.0],
[0.833, 1.2]
Horizontal Flip
p = 0.5
Rotate
p, degree = 0.5, ± 7
D. Isobe et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    

Smart Agricultural Technology 10 (2025) 100874
10
applied to the 12 frames of RGB images for each batch of training data 
using the same parameters. Furthermore, Random Resized Crop and 
Horizontal Flip were applied to both the 12 frames of RGB images and 
the mandarin mask images for each batch of training data using the same 
parameters.
3.2.3. Training for mandarin count estimation
The training for mandarin count estimation was conducted with the 
settings described in Table 4. Training was performed on the dataset of 
videos from trees with known mandarin numbers, using a batch size of 6. 
The learning rate was decreased from the original learning rate to the 
minimum learning rate using Cosine Annealing. When fine-tuning from 
the Masked Auto Encoder, weight updates for the CNN part were 
stopped, and the learning rate for weight updates of the Temporal Swin 
Transformer was reduced using layer-wise learning rate decay as pro­
posed by Bao et al. [4]. Data augmentation with Random Brightness 
Contrast was applied to the 12 frames of RGB images for each batch of 
training data using the same parameters. Furthermore, Random Resized 
Crop, Horizontal Flip, and Rotate were applied to both the 12 frames of 
RGB images and the mandarin mask images for each batch of training 
data using the same parameters.
3.2.4. Evaluation metric
In our experiment, we used the Mean Absolute Error (MAE) and 
Mean Absolute Percentage Error (MAPE) as evaluation metrics for the 
model. MAE is calculated by taking the average of the absolute differ­
ences between the predicted number of mandarins and the actual 
counts, with its unit being the number of mandarins in this study. MAPE 
is calculated by dividing the error of each prediction by the actual value, 
taking the absolute value, and then averaging these values for all the test 
data, with the unit being a percentage. The definitions of MAE and MAPE 
are given by Eqs. (5) and (6), respectively: 
MAE = 1
N
∑
N
i=1
|̂yi −yi|
(5) 
MAPE = 100
N
∑
N
i=1⃒⃒⃒⃒̂
yi −yi
yi⃒⃒⃒⃒
(6) 
Where, N is the dataset size, yi is the actual value, ̂yi is the predicted 
number. Moreover, the MAE and MAPE shown in 3.3 are the averages of 
the MAE and MAPE calculated from each validation dataset split by k- 
fold cross-validation.
3.3. Experimental results
3.3.1. Optimal number of frames
Trained with the parameter settings described in 2.2, the results of 
the mandarin count estimation using 3 different numbers of frames are 
shown in Table 5. The best results for both MAE and MAPE are achieved 
when F = 12. Therefore, we adopted 12 frames for the experiments 
shown in the remaining part of this section.
3.3.2. Results of mandarin count estimation
The detailed results are shown in Table 6. The best average MAE and 
MAPE values were achieved with the model pre-trained with Masked 
Auto Encoder, using the frame number-based selection, and trained with 
WeakL1Loss. The results of the two-tailed t-test analysis showed no 
significant differences between the proposed methods at the 95 % con­
fidence level for both MAE and MAPE.
Table 7 presents a comparison of the proposed method with two 
existing approaches: the single-image-based method by [5] and the 
dual-image method, which employs images captured from both the front 
and back of the trees, by [14]. In the reference [14] paper, the final 
mango count is derived by multiplying the mango count detected from 
two images by an occlusion factor. This factor is computed as the 
average ratio of the visible mango count visible in the two images over 
the ground truth count. In our study, both of these existing methods 
were re-implemented using the same mandarin dataset that we 
collected, ensuring a consistent basis for comparison. The results of the 
analysis using the two-tailed t-test showed that the proposed method 
achieved significantly higher accuracy than both of the existing methods 
at the 95 % confidence level in both MAE and MAPE, underscoring its 
effectiveness in estimating mandarin counts.
4. Discussion
Regarding the number of frames used, the best results were achieved 
when using 12 frames (F = 12). This may be attributed to the fact that, 
in deep learning models, an increase in the number of input frames es­
calates the number of parameters requiring optimization. Consequently, 
with a limited dataset, the complexity of successfully training the model 
increases.
The mandarin count, as determined by human ground truth, was 
divided into intervals of 100 for further analysis. MAE and MAPE values 
were calculated for each interval to assess model performance. In the 
300–500 and 700–1200 intervals, the model pre-trained with a Masked 
Auto Encoder demonstrated significant improvements in both MAE and 
Table 3 
Experimental settings for pre-training with masked auto encoder.
Config
Settings
optimizer
AdamW
base learning rate
1e-5
min learning rate
1e-8
weight decay
0.05
optimizer momentum
β1, β2 = 0.9, 0.95
base batch
6
learning rate schedule
cosine decay
warm up epoch
15
training epoch
150
Random Brightness Contrast
p, brightness, contrast = 0.75, ± 0.2, ± 0.2
Random Resized Crop
p, scale, ratio = 0.7, [0.8, 1.0], [0.833, 1.2]
Horizontal Flip
p = 0.5
Table 4 
Experimental settings for mandarin count estimation.
Config
Settings
From scratch
Finetuning
optimizer
AdamW
base learning rate
1e-4
min learning rate
1e-6
weight decay (CNN and Temporal Swin Transformer)
0.05
optimizer momentum
β1, β2 = 0.9, 0.95
base batch
6
learning rate schedule
cosine decay
warmup epoch
3
training epoch
30
CNN frozen weights
No
Yes
layer-wise lr decay (only temporal swin transformer)
No
0.85
Random Brightness Contrast
p, brightness, contrast =
0.75, ± 0.2, ± 0.2
Random Resized Crop
p, scale, ratio = 0.7, [0.8,
1.0], [0.833, 1.2]
Horizontal Flip
p = 0.5
Rotate
p, degree = 0.5, ± 7
Table 5 
Results of mandarin count estimation when using different number of frames.
Input frames
MAE
MAPE
12
208.70
28.63
24
224.17
31.19
36
227.81
31.26
D. Isobe et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    

Smart Agricultural Technology 10 (2025) 100874
11
MAPE compared to the non-pre-trained model, although these im­
provements were not statistically significant based on the Kruskal-Wallis 
test. In contrast, in the 500–700 interval, the non-pre-trained model 
outperformed the pre-trained model, showing lower MAE and MAPE 
values. However, the Kruskal-Wallis test again indicated no statistically 
significant differences in any of the intervals. These findings suggest that 
while pre-training may offer performance benefits in certain ranges, it 
does not consistently outperform the model without pre-training across 
all human-verified ground truth intervals.
The application of Masked Auto Encoder enables CNNs and the 
Temporal Swin Transformer to better extract features from multiple 
frames. Specifically, the improved MAE and MAPE values across many 
ranges, as shown in Figs. 12 and 13, indicate that the use of the Masked 
Auto Encoder is effective. Additionally, these results show that the 
Temporal Swin Transformer, which typically requires a large amount of 
data for training, is capable of extracting features even with a small 
amount of training data.
As shown in Figs. 12 and 13, the data for trees with a high number of 
mandarins is limited. While previous studies have focused only on the 
fruits visible on the surface of the tree, this study estimates the total 
number of fruits, including those that are hidden inside the tree. The 
accuracy of the data for trees with a high fruit count is lower, indicating 
that estimating the total number of fruits, including those hidden inside 
the tree, is challenging with the method proposed here.
Fig. 14 shows the Absolute Error for each tree, providing a deeper 
understanding of the error distribution across different tree instances. 
We observed that trees with a higher number of mandarins tend to 
exhibit higher Absolute Error values. This suggests that as the density of 
fruits increases, the complexity of accurately estimating their count also 
grows, likely due to increased occlusion and overlapping fruits. These 
conditions make it more challenging for the model to distinguish indi­
vidual fruits, leading to greater prediction errors.
Table 8 and Fig. 15 present three representative examples. One each 
from the 300–400 range, 700–800 range, and 1100–1200 range. These 
examples corroborate the broader trends noted above. Tree A, with 
around 360 mandarins, shows a moderate Absolute Error (59), partly 
due to fewer occlusions compared to denser canopies. Tree B, with 
approximately 720 mandarins, also maintains a relatively moderate 
error (48.6), suggesting that the model can still handle a medium-level 
fruit density with reasonable accuracy. In contrast, Tree C, which has 
>1100 mandarins, exhibits a substantially higher Absolute Error (310). 
This result highlights the increasing complexity of accurate fruit 
counting when the tree’s canopy is densely populated, as heavy occlu­
sions and overlapping fruits significantly challenge the model’s ability to 
detect individual mandarins.
On the other hand, trees with a moderate or lower number of man­
darins generally show lower Absolute Error values, indicating that our 
model performs better in less complex scenarios where fruits are more 
distinct and less crowded. The observed trend aligns with our expecta­
tions, as the visual complexity of densely packed fruit clusters presents 
significant challenges for accurate prediction. These factors have 
increased the variance of the Absolute Error, which likely contributed to 
the lack of statistical significance in the two-tailed t-test.
This analysis highlights the need for more sophisticated approaches 
to improve the model’s performance in high-density scenarios, such as 
incorporating additional image viewpoints or enhancing the model’s 
ability to handle occlusions. These improvements could help reduce 
variance in the Absolute Percentage Error and increase overall predic­
tion accuracy, particularly for trees with large numbers of mandarins.
We would also like to highlight that the complexity of accurately 
estimating fruit count is influenced by several factors such as canopy 
shape and density, which cannot be easily captured by traditional 
dimension measurements. Our system’s reliance on image data allows it 
to directly consider these visual characteristics, which are essential for 
Table 6 
Average MAE and MAPE for trees bearing the number of mandarins.
Without Masked Auto Encoder
With Masked Auto Encoder
L1Loss
WeakL1Loss
L1Loss
WeakL1Loss
MAE
MAPE
MAE
MAPE
MAE
MAPE
MAE
MAPE
Frame Number Based
208.70
28.63
223.88
30.81
194.02
27.08
189.56
26.12
Cumulative Sum Based on SSIM
216.03
30.90
238.97
33.19
195.99
27.86
190.38
26.74
Table 7 
Comparison with Existing Methods.
MAE
MAPE
1 image method [5]
632.28
104.18
2 images method [14]
251.88
43.70
Proposed Method
189.56
26.12
Fig. 12. The MAE values for each interval of mandarins numbers.
D. Isobe et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    

Smart Agricultural Technology 10 (2025) 100874
12
improving the accuracy of fruit count estimation. By accounting for the 
tree’s visual appearance, our system can adapt to the variability in 
canopy structure and fruit distribution that is often overlooked by 
relying solely on physical dimensions.
Regarding the effectiveness of the two frame selection methods, 
experimental results indicate that, overall, the frame-number-based 
sampling approach performed slightly better than the accumulative 
difference-based approach. The latter was proposed under the assump­
tion that non-constant camera speed might lead to the selection of more 
frames with minimal changes during slow movements. The goal of 
selecting frames with significant accumulated differences was to ensure 
an informative frame set. However, this approach may not be as effec­
tive when the camera moves at a constant speed. Additionally, vertical 
camera movements can introduce larger differences between adjacent 
frames, further challenging the effectiveness of the accumulative 
difference method. Table 9 presents the accuracy of both methods for 
three trees in the test data. Tree D achieved better results with the 
accumulative difference method, Tree F favored the frame-number 
method, and Tree E yielded almost identical results for both ap­
proaches. Fig. 16, showcasing camera trajectories generated with the 
COLMAP [22] technique, illustrates that Tree D, benefiting from the 
accumulative difference method, features intricate curves and slower 
movements at those points. Tree E’s trajectory is smoother, yet includes 
some curves. Conversely, Tree F, where the frame-number method 
proved more effective, exhibits a less complex trajectory with generally 
faster movement. The correlation between trajectory differences and 
method efficacy suggests that the accumulative difference method is 
suitable for non-uniform camera movements, aligning with our pro­
posal’s intent. For future work, we plan to develop a technique to build 
the optimal frame set based on camera parameter values.
While fruit tracking methods aim to follow individual fruits across 
multiple frames to improve accuracy, this becomes challenging in situ­
ations with frequent occlusions, such as when fruits are completely 
hidden behind leaves or branches and are not visible from any view­
point. Since there are correlations between the number of occluded 
fruits and the number of visible fruits, along with the density of leaves, 
we expect that by employing an end-to-end learning approach, the 
model can learn the relationship between the actual fruit count and the 
visual features of the tree, enabling it to predict the actual number with 
Fig. 13. The MAPE values for each interval of mandarins numbers.
Fig. 14. The Absolute Error for each orange tree ordered by ground truth number of orange in tree under condition With Masked Auto Encoder, WeakL1Loss, 
Cumulative Sum Based on SSIM.
Table 8 
Representative examples of actual and predicted counts for individual trees 
(Each Corresponding to a Different Ground Truth Range).
Actual Counts
Predicted Counts
Absolute Error
Tree A
364
423.134
59.134
Tree B
724
675.384
48.616
Tree C
1175
864.808
310.192
D. Isobe et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    

Smart Agricultural Technology 10 (2025) 100874
13
Fig. 15. RGB images of trees in four directions in Table 8.
D. Isobe et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    

Smart Agricultural Technology 10 (2025) 100874
14
reasonable accuracy.
Similarly, 3-D localization methods provide precise spatial infor­
mation, enabling an accurate count of fruits in three dimensions. 
However, they cannot detect fruits that are completely occluded from all 
viewpoints. Additionally, these methods require specialized hardware, 
are computationally intensive, and may be difficult to implement in 
environments where trees are densely packed. In contrast, our method 
focuses on 2-D frame analysis, making it simpler, less resource-intensive, 
and more practical for use with standard image data. This approach 
offers a more feasible solution for most commercial orchard settings.
However, it is important to acknowledge the limitations of our 
approach. The results can vary depending on the frames selected, which 
may lead to inconsistencies in measurements. Additionally, significant 
scale changes between frames can complicate accurate estimation, 
especially when fruits are occluded or vary in size. These challenges are 
reflected in the Mean Absolute Error (MAE) values, indicating that there 
is still room for improvement in the consistency of our method. Despite 
these limitations, our frame selection approach remains a practical 
alternative when more sophisticated tracking or 3-D techniques are not 
feasible due to hardware, environmental, or computational constraints.
Further enhancements are expected with the expansion of the data­
set. The number of mandarins on a tree is influenced by numerous fac­
tors, including the current year’s weather conditions, the previous year’s 
yield, soil properties, and nutritional status. So far, we have validated 
the accuracy using data collected over two years from several distinct 
farms within the same region. However, since the estimation relies 
solely on features observed in the captured images, we anticipate that 
the model could be applicable to a wide range of trees under various 
conditions. Nevertheless, the model’s generalizability needs to be 
confirmed with data from different regions over multiple years.
In this study, we photographed the perimeter of the trees, which 
required sufficient space between them. The commercial farm where we 
collected data had enough space to accommodate this, as is typical for 
standard agricultural activities like thinning, fertilizing, and harvesting. 
However, we acknowledge that not all farms may have the same amount 
of space available. This requirement represents one of the limitations of 
our approach, as adequate space is essential for effective data collection.
5. Conclusions
In this study, we proposed a system for estimating the number of 
small and unripe fruits on mandarin trees from RGB videos using SOTA 
deep learning technologies. The proposed solution leverages mobile 
sensing devices and AI technology to assist farmers in estimating the 
number of fruits on mandarin trees. This task, though highly labor- 
intensive, is essential for maintaining the quality of mandarins. By uti­
lizing multiple images taken from different viewing angles, the proposed 
method successfully predicts the number of mandarins, including those 
obscured by leaves from specific angles, with an average error below 27 
% using the MAPE evaluation. This significantly outperforms existing 
methods that rely on a single image or just two images.
The proposed model can be easily adapted to estimate the number of 
other fruits, particularly those that may be occluded by dense foliage— a 
task that existing methods have struggled to achieve.
Data availability
The data that support the findings of this study are available from the 
corresponding author, Mao, upon reasonable request.
Ethics statement
Not applicable: This manuscript does not include human or animal 
Table 9 
Comparison of frame selection methods for individual trees.
Absolute Error
​
Frame Number Based
Cumulative Sum Based on SSIM
Tree D
198.68
60.11
Tree E
86.96
87.05
Tree F
90.69
204.77
Fig. 16. Camera trajectories for the trees in Table 9.
D. Isobe et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    

Smart Agricultural Technology 10 (2025) 100874
15
research.
CRediT authorship contribution statement
Daisuke Isobe: Writing – original draft, Visualization, Validation, 
Software, Methodology, Investigation, Data curation, Conceptualiza­
tion. Prawit Buayai: Writing – review & editing, Methodology, Inves­
tigation. Xiaoyang Mao: Writing – review & editing, Supervision, 
Resources, Project administration, Methodology, Investigation, Funding 
acquisition, Conceptualization.
Declaration of competing interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial 
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence 
the work reported in this paper.
Acknowledgment
This work was supported by Hiroshima Prefecture (Project Name: 
Hiroshima Seedbox).
References
[1] N.T. Anderson, J.P. Underwood, M.M. Rahman, A. Robson, K.B. Walsh, Estimation 
of fruit load in mango orchards: tree sampling considerations and use of machine 
vision and satellite imagery, Precis. Agric. 20 (2019) 823–839, https://doi.org/ 
10.1007/s11119-018-9614-1.
[2] O.E. Apolo-Apolo, M. P´erez-Ruiz, J. Martinez-Guanter, J. Valente, A cloud-based 
environment for generating yield estimation maps from apple orchards using UAV 
imagery and a deep learning technique, Front. Plant Sci. 11 (2020) 1086, https:// 
doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2020.01086.
[3] A. Arnab, M. Dehghani, G. Heigold, C. Sun, M. Luˇci´c, C. Schmid, Vivit: a video 
vision transformer, in: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on 
Computer Vision, 2021, pp. 6836–6846, https://doi.org/10.1109/ 
ICCV48922.2021.00676.
[4] Bao H., Dong L., Piao S., & Wei F. (2021). Beit: bert pre-training of image 
transformers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2106.08254. 10.1109/CVPR52688.2022.01553.
[5] S.W. Chen, S.S. Shivakumar, S. Dcunha, J. Das, E. Okon, C. Qu, C.J. Taylor, 
V. Kumar, Counting apples and oranges with deep learning: a data-driven 
approach, IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett. 2 (2) (2017) 781–788, https://doi.org/ 
10.1109/LRA.2017.2651944.
[6] B. Cheng, I. Misra, A.G. Schwing, A. Kirillov, R. Girdhar, Masked-attention mask 
transformer for universal image segmentation, in: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF 
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2022, pp. 1290–1299, 
https://doi.org/10.1109/CVPR52688.2022.00135.
[7] U.O. Dorj, M. Lee, S.S. Yun, An yield estimation in citrus orchards via fruit 
detection and counting using image processing, Comput. Electron. Agric. 140 
(2017) 103–112, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2017.05.019.
[8] Dosovitskiy A., Beyer L., Kolesnikov A., Weissenborn D., Zhai X., Unterthiner T., 
Dehghani M., Minderer M., Heigold G., Gelly S., Uszkoreit J., Houlsby N. (2020). 
An image is worth 16x16 words: transformers for image recognition at scale. arXiv 
preprint arXiv: 2010. 11929.
[9] A. Feng, J. Zhou, E.D. Vories, K.A. Sudduth, M. Zhang, Yield estimation in cotton 
using UAV-based multi-sensor imagery, Biosyst. Eng. 193 (2020) 101–114, https:// 
doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2020.02.014.
[10] F. Gao, W. Fang, X. Sun, Z. Wu, G. Zhao, G. Li, L. Fu, Q. Zhang, A novel apple fruit 
detection and counting methodology based on deep learning and trunk tracking in 
modern orchard, Comput. Electron. Agric. 197 (2022) 107000, https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.compag.2022.107000.
[11] A. Gongal, A. Silwal, S. Amatya, M. Karkee, Q. Zhang, K. Lewis, Apple crop-load 
estimation with over-the-row machine vision system, Comput. Electron. Agric. 120 
(2016) 26–35, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2015.10.022.
[12] K. He, X. Chen, S. Xie, Y. Li, P. Doll´ar, R. Girshick, Masked autoencoders are 
scalable vision learners, in: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer 
Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2022, pp. 16000–16009, https://doi.org/10.1109/ 
CVPR52688.2022.01553.
[13] R. Kestur, A. Meduri, O. Narasipura, MangoNet: a deep semantic segmentation 
architecture for a method to detect and count mangoes in an open orchard, Eng. 
Appl. Artif. Intell. 77 (2019) 59–69, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
engappai.2018.09.011.
[14] A. Koirala, K.B. Walsh, Z. Wang, Attempting to estimate the unseen—Correction for 
occluded fruit in tree fruit load estimation by machine vision with deep learning, 
Agronomy 11 (2) (2021) 347, https://doi.org/10.3390/agronomy11020347.
[15] A. Krajewski, T. Pittaway, Manipulation of citrus flowering and fruiting by 
pruning, Int. Citrus Congr. 1 (2000) 357–360.
[16] T.Y. Lin, M. Maire, S. Belongie, J. Hays, P. Perona, D. Ramanan, C.L. Zitnick, 
P. Dollar, Microsoft coco: common objects in context, in: Computer Vision–ECCV 
2014: 13th European Conference, Zurich, Switzerland 13, Springer International 
Publishing, 2014, pp. 740–755. September 6-12, 2014Proceedings, Part V.
[17] Z. Liu, Y. Lin, Y. Cao, H. Hu, Y. Wei, Z. Zhang, S. Lin, B. Guo, Swin transformer: 
hierarchical vision transformer using shifted windows, in: Proceedings of the IEEE/ 
CVF International Conference on Computer Vision, 2021, pp. 10012–10022, 
https://doi.org/10.1109/ICCV48922.2021.00986.
[18] Z. Liu, J. Ning, Y. Cao, Y. Wei, Z. Zhang, S. Lin, H. Hu, Video swin transformer, in: 
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern 
Recognition, 2022, pp. 3202–3211, https://doi.org/10.1109/ 
CVPR52688.2022.00320.
[19] P. L´opez-García, J.F. Ortega, E.P. P´erez-´Alvarez, M.A. Moreno, J.M. Ramírez, D. 
S. Intrigliolo, R. Ballesteros, Yield estimations in a vineyard based on high- 
resolution spatial imagery acquired by a UAV, Biosyst. Eng. 224 (2022) 227–245, 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2022.10.015.
[20] Z. Malik, S. Ziauddin, A.R. Shahid, A. Safi, Detection and counting of on-tree citrus 
fruit for crop yield estimation, Int. J. Adv. Comput. Sci. Appl 7 (7) (2016), https:// 
doi.org/10.14569/IJACSA.2016.070569.
[21] A.J. Piergiovanni, W. Kuo, A. Angelova, Rethinking video vits: sparse video tubes 
for joint image and video learning, in: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on 
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2023, pp. 2214–2224, https://doi.org/ 
10.1109/CVPR52729.2023.00220.
[22] J.L. Sch¨onberger, J.M. Frahm, Structure-from-motion revisited, in: Proceedings of 
the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2016, 
pp. 4104–4113, https://doi.org/10.1109/CVPR.2016.445.
[23] Takase S., Kiyono S., Kobayashi S., & Suzuki J. (2023). B2t connection: serving 
stability and performance in deep transformers. Findings of the Association for 
Computational Linguistics: ACL 2023. (pp. 3078–3095). 10.18653/v1/2023. 
findings-acl.192.
[24] L. Wang, B. Huang, Z. Zhao, Z. Tong, Y. He, Y. Wang, Y. Wang, Y. Qiao, Videomae 
v2: scaling video masked autoencoders with dual masking, in: Proceedings of the 
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2023, 
pp. 14549–14560, https://doi.org/10.1109/CVPR52729.2023.01398.
[25] Z. Wang, A.C. Bovik, H.R. Sheikh, E.P. Simoncelli, Image quality assessment: from 
error visibility to structural similarity, IEEE Trans. Image Process. 13 (4) (2004) 
600–612, https://doi.org/10.1109/TIP.2003.819861.
[26] S. Woo, S. Debnath, R. Hu, X. Chen, Z. Liu, I.S. Kweon, S. Xie, Convnext v2: co- 
designing and scaling convnets with masked autoencoders, in: Proceedings of the 
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2023, 
pp. 16133–16142, https://doi.org/10.1109/CVPR52729.2023.01548.
[27] D. Wulfsohn, F. Aravena Zamora, C. Potin T´ellez, I. Zamora Lagos, M. García- 
Fi˜nana, Multilevel systematic sampling to estimate total fruit number for yield 
forecasts, Precis. Agric. 13 (2012) 256–275, https://doi.org/10.1007/s11119-011- 
9245-2.
[28] Z. Xie, Z. Zhang, Y. Cao, Y. Lin, J. Bao, Z. Yao, Q. Dai, H. Hu, Simmim: a simple 
framework for masked image modeling, in: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF 
Conference On Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2022, pp. 9653–9663, 
https://doi.org/10.1109/CVPR52688.2022.00943.
[29] Z. Xu, Y. Dai, F. Liu, W. Chen, Y. Liu, L. Shi, S. Liu, Y. Zhou, Swin MAE: masked 
autoencoders for small datasets, Comput. Biol. Med. 161 (2023) 107037, https:// 
doi.org/10.1016/j.compbiomed.2023.107037.
[30] W. Zhang, J. Wang, Y. Liu, K. Chen, H. Li, Y. Duan, W. Wu, Y. Shi, W. Guo, Deep- 
learning-based in-field citrus fruit detection and tracking, Hortic. Res. 9 (2022) 
uhac003, https://doi.org/10.1093/hr/uhac003.
D. Isobe et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
