Semantic Segmentation of Fruits on Multi-sensor
Fused Data in Natural Orchards
Hanwen Kang∗,†
College of Engineering
South China Agricultural University
Guangzhou, China
∗Corresponding author
† These authors contributed equally
Xing Wanga,b,†
aMechanical and Aerospace Engineering
Monash University
Melbourne, Australia
bRobotics and Autonomous Systems Group
Data61, CSIRO
Brisbane, Australia
Abstract—Semantic segmentation is a fundamental task for
agricultural robots to understand the surrounding environments
in natural orchards. The recent development of the LiDAR
techniques enables the robot to acquire accurate range mea-
surements of the view in the unstructured orchards. Compared
to RGB images, 3D point clouds have geometrical properties.
By combining the LiDAR and camera, rich information on
geometries and textures can be obtained. In this work, we propose
a deep-learning-based segmentation method to perform accurate
semantic segmentation on fused data from a LiDAR-Camera
visual sensor. Two critical problems are explored and solved in
this work. The ﬁrst one is how to efﬁciently fused the texture
and geometrical features from multi-sensor data. The second one
is how to efﬁciently train the 3D segmentation network under
severely imbalance class conditions. Moreover, an implementation
of 3D segmentation in orchards including LiDAR-Camera data
fusion, data collection and labelling, network training, and
model inference is introduced in detail. In the experiment, we
comprehensively analyze the network setup when dealing with
highly unstructured and noisy point clouds acquired from an
apple orchard. Overall, our proposed method achieves 86.2%
mIoU on the segmentation of fruits on the high-resolution point
cloud (100k-200k points). The experiment results show that the
proposed method can perform accurate segmentation in real
orchard environments.
Index Terms—Semantic segmentation, deep-learning, pointnet,
LiDAR
I. INTRODUCTION
With the recent development of the LiDAR techniques, data
in 3D point cloud format has been gradually used in robotics
tasks under agricultural scenarios because it is robust to the
variances in lighting, shadows, and other factors. The 3D point
cloud can provide accurate and robust range measurements of
the real world. Additionally, RGB cameras can still provide
dense texture information missing from LiDAR data, which
can cooperate with Lidar to receive rich information [1]. With
proper extrinsic calibration of the cameras and LiDARs, the
point cloud with texture information of the real world can
be obtained. Semantic scene understanding is a fundamental
task in many agricultural scenarios, such as growth monitor-
ing and robotics perception tasks [2]–[4]. However, semantic
Identify applicable funding agency here. If none, delete this.
segmentation of 3D point clouds, particularly segmentation of
large-scale point clouds, is still a challenging task as 3D point
clouds are generally unstructured and unordered [5], [6]. How
to improve the performance of semantic segmentation of 3D
point cloud data in these agricultural scenes has attracted more
and more attention.
Semantic segmentation plays a core role in computer vision.
It groups image pixels together which belong to the same
class, which is visually meaningful areas for analysis and un-
derstanding [7]. Semantic segmentation has been widely used
in robotic perception, medical image processing, autonomous
driving, agricultural harvesting etc [8]–[11]. The recent de-
velopment in Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) provides
remarkable performance improvement as compared with the
traditional classiﬁers like random forest [12]. Jonathon et al.
[13] developed a fully convolutional network (FCN) for end-
to-end image segmentation, which achieved a 20% increase in
the segmentation performance on Pascal VOC 2012 database.
Olaf et al. [14] proposed a UNet network and training strat-
egy that highly utilizes the data augmentation with available
annotated samples for biomedical image segmentation. The
authors further developed the Deeplab-v3 network and applied
ResNet/MobileNet as the backbone [15]. Modules with dilate
convolution in the cascade were designed to capture multi-
scale context by adopting multiple dilate rates. Additionally,
the augments on dilate Spatial Pyramid Pooling was imple-
mented to probe convolutional features at multiple scales.
The semantic segmentation method has also been widely ap-
plied to promote the advancement of the agricultural ﬁeld. Zou
et al. proposed a UNet-based algorithm to segment weeds from
similar crops under a ﬁeld environment [16]. The segmenta-
tion network was trained using a two-stage training method,
including pre-processing and ﬁne-tuning, which achieved an
IOU of 92.92%. Wu et al. applied DeepLabV3 models with
four backbones of ResNet-50, ResNet-101, Xception-65, and
Xception-71 to segment abnormal leaves of hydroponic lettuce
[17]. ResNet-101 had the best segmentation performance in
the uniform weight assignation method with pixel accuracy
of 99.2%, and mIoU of 0.8326. Peng et al. applied FCN to
segment the dense grapes with different varieties, and an IOU
arXiv:2208.02483v1  [cs.CV]  4 Aug 2022

of 75.61% was achieved on the RGB images. He also applied
UNet and DeeplabV3 to compare the segmentation accuracy,
which ended up with an accuracy of 77.53% and 84.26% for
the IOU [18].
Even though the 2D semantic segmentation achieves com-
patible segmentation accuracy and robustness, its performance
experiences signiﬁcant degeneration while dealing with com-
plex natural orchards, especially for highly occluded large-
scale scenes. Additionally, purely 2D images can not describe
the 3D space well due to a lack of depth information. Recent
research has focused on the semantic segmentation of 3D point
clouds. Wei et al. proposed BushNet to achieve the semantic
segmentation of 3D points in a large-scale agroforestry envi-
ronment [19]. It included a minimum probability of random
sampling module that can quickly and randomly sample a
huge point and a multi-channel attention module to improve
the attention distribution accuracy and training efﬁciency. The
segmentation accuracy was improved by 12% with the addi-
tional modules implemented. Chen et al. introduced RandLa-
Net for large-scale unstructured agricultural scenes [20]. A
local feature aggregation module was integrated and improved
to achieve the large-scale 3D point cloud segmentation. The
experiment results suggested the best segmentation accuracy
of 94%, and the mIoU can reach 74%. Yu et al. designed
LFPNet that can directly consume fruit point clouds in real
scenes to deal with classiﬁcation error, incomplete segmen-
tation, and low-efﬁciency [21]. The ﬁnal results achieved
an average segmentation accuracy and mIOU of 80.2% and
76.4%, respectively. However, the data were collected from
the facility environment with a Kinect-v2 RGB-D camera,
which will experience high-performance degeneration under
natural lighting conditions. The network can not be deployed
to mobile devices or be used for on-site segmentation tasks.
Despite the signiﬁcant importance of semantic segmentation
on 3D point clouds, it has been rarely studied for scene
segmentation in unstructured scenes of real orchards. The point
clouds of the surrounding environment and other factors in
the real orchard are highly unstructured, uneven distributed,
and noisy even compared to the point clouds acquired in city
scenes. These pose huge challenges in performing semantic
segmentation directly on 3D point clouds.
This study proposes a PointNet-based 3D segmentation
method to perform segmentation in natural orchards. Two
critical challenges are solved in this work. The ﬁrst challenge
is how to efﬁciently fuse features from images and point
clouds to perform semantic segmentation. Since image data
can provide enriched texture information and point cloud data
can provide geometrical information about the world. The
second challenge is how to train the point-based semantic
segmentation under imbalance class conditions efﬁciently. A
complete point cloud data of an orchard scene may contain
more than 100k points, while only a few belong to the
foreground objects. Such problematic class distribution could
severely affect the accuracy of the trained model. Yu et al.’s
work [21] is the most similar work to our method. However,
their work does not discuss the multi-sensor data fusion and
training under imbalance class, which are two critical problems
of 3D semantic segmentation orchard scenes. Meanwhile, their
method requires a high-precision multi-viewpoint cloud that
can only be obtained in ideal environments. While Our method
only requires the fused RGB-point data that can be collected
by LiDAR-Camera in the orchard environments.
In this paper, we propose a deep-learning-based 3D seg-
mentation network to segment fruits in the high-resolution
(100k - 200k points) colorized point clouds. We leverage
the PointNet++ architecture [22], an existing SOTA deep-
learning model in processing point clouds, and present an
improved PointNet++ architecture that can fuse texture and
geometrical information from a LiDAR-Camera visual sensor.
We show that the accuracy of the PointNet-based model can
be signiﬁcantly improved by efﬁciently designing the fusion
behaviour of the color and point clouds. To further promote
the performance of the presented network, we utilize under-
sampling and Weighted Cross-Entropy (WCE) to improve
the network training efﬁcacy. By distilling multiple network
designs and training strategies, we obtain a comparatively
accurate and robust 3D semantic segmentation method. More-
over, a complete implementation of the methods in terms of the
LiDAR-Camera data fusion, data labelling and pre-processing,
network training and inference is also introduced in detail. Our
primary contributions to this paper are:
• A method that can perform semantic segmentation on
high-resolution colorised point cloud data from a LiDAR-
Camera fused sensor.
• A concise but efﬁcient network architecture that can fuse
features from image color and point cloud data.
• Demonstration of the proposed method from LiDAR-
Camera fusion, and data labelling, to the network training
and prediction, providing an end-to-end implementation
for semantic segmentation in natural orchard environ-
ments.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. The method-
ologies of our approach are presented in Section II. The
experiment results and discussion are presented in Sections
III and IV, followed by the conclusion in Section V.
II. MATERIALS AND METHODOLOGY
A. Method Overview
An overview of the proposed segmentation method is shown
in Figure 1. The system captures sensor data from a Solid State
LiDAR (SSL) Livox Mid-70 or Livox AVIA and an RGB
camera. The intrinsic of the camera and extrinsic between
LiDAR and camera are calibrated using the method from
our previous work [23]. We seek to estimate the semantic
label of points that belong to the fruits using either point
cloud or fused color information. This estimation problem
can be formulated as a dense semantic segmentation problem.
We leverage the PointNet++ architecture to perform semantic
segmentation on input data since it shows SOTA performance
in processing point cloud data in many core vision perception
tasks. Our method can perform semantic segmentation on raw

Fig. 1. Illustration of our proposed 3D semantic segmentation method. (a) the input data is colorized point clouds collected by using LiDAR-Camera, (b)
the input point clouds are segmented by using the proposed segmentation module, which includes a spatial subdivision algorithm and a PointNet-based
segmentation network, (c) the segmentation results.
point cloud data and point cloud with color information. Note
that without loss of generality, the proposed method can also
incorporate measurements from other 3D range sensors, like
spinning LiDARs. Mean Intersection over Union (mIoU) is
used to evaluate the performance of the network model.
Fig. 2. The proposed segmentation method can use both (a) raw point cloud,
(b) colorized point cloud. (c) is the an example of segmentation result.
1) Input Data: Our method uses a set of sensors to collect
data from the orchard environment. The inputs of the proposed
method include point clouds and 2D color images. The Livox
Mid-70 or Livox AVIA measures the surrounding geometry by
sweeping over the scene with a set of lasers (one line for Livox
Mid-70 and six lines for Livox AVIA). The data collection
frequency of the Livox Lidar is 10 HZ. For Livox Mid-70, the
LiDAR-camera sensor typically requires 10 seconds to obtain
sufﬁcient points to cover one single scene. In comparison,
Livox AVIA only needs 3 seconds since it has more laser
channels than the former. The input points are ﬁrstly fused
with color information and then added to construct a complete
point cloud for the current scene. A typical complete point
cloud for a working scene (the width and height of the scene
are 2.5 to 3 meters, the depth of the scene is between 1.2
to 2.5 meters) normally includes 100k - 200k points after
post-processing. The post-processing steps comprise outlier
rejection and voxelization. The size of the voxel grid is set
as 1cm×1cm×1cm to preserve the details of the local-scale
geometries. An example of the raw and colorized point cloud
and semantic segmentation result of the scene is shown in
Figure 2.
Fig. 3. Illustration of spatial subdivision of proposed method in segmentation
inference. The complete scene is subdivided by an Octree until the point
number within a leaf node is less than the given number, which is set as 4096
or 8192.
2) Partitioned Inference on Point Cloud: Since the point
cloud of a complete scene contains more than 100k points,
which cannot be processed at once. Therefore, we partition
the whole point cloud of a scene into multiple blocks through
the Octree. Each node of the Octree should contain the points
that are not beyond the given number. The typical value of the
given number is 4096 and 8192, based on different situations.
Based on the value of the given number of points, we divide
the segmentation into two cases: small-scale segmentation and
large-scale segmentation. Small-scale segmentation stands for
performing segmentation on a node that contains a number
of points less than 4096. In contrast, large-scale segmentation
stands for performing segmentation on the node containing
either 4096 or 8192 points. Additionally, fruits always count
only a small part of points in the whole point cloud. Hence
performing segmentation on the large-scale point cloud is more
challenging due to the presence of an imbalanced distribution
of classes. Therefore, ﬁnding a suitable point number value
in each node is also a critical task to secure segmentation
accuracy. During the forward inference, the complete point
cloud is partitioned into small blocks and fed into the network

Fig. 4. PointNet++ uses a set of SA blocks and FP blocks to extract and process features from the point cloud. SA blocks under-sampling the points and
extracts features from the point set by a local-to-global behaviour by increasing the grouping region of each chosen centroid. FP blocks up-sampling the
points and propagates the processed features to each point within the set.
one by one until all blocks are processed. Then, the predictions
of these blocks are assembled to obtain the ﬁnal results. The
overall procedures of the partitioned inference as shown in
Figure 3.
B. Network Architecture
1) PointNet++ Architecture: PointNet++ network uses a
hierarchical feature learning strategy to extract and learn
features from the point cloud, as shown in Figure 4. It builds
a hierarchical grouping of points, which can progressively
learn features from larger and larger local regions along
the hierarchy and aggregate local and global information.
However, since the point cloud is unordered, highly non-
uniform, and does not have a structured neighbourhood region
similar to the image. Hence the Set Abstraction (SA) layer and
Feature Propagation (FP) layer are used to process the point
cloud in each hierarchical level and perform dense prediction
by propagating point features along the neighbour region,
respectively. The base PointNet++ network has four SA layers
and four FP layers to process and predict the label of each
point.
The SA layer comprises three layers: the sampling layer,
grouping layer, and PointNet layer. Sampling layer sample
a given number of centroids from the point cloud using
the iterative farthest point sampling. Iterative Farthest Point
Sampling (FPS) can ensure an even distribution of centroids
within the point cloud. Then, the grouping layer is used to ﬁnd
the neighbour points within a local region of each centroid.
Different grouping methods can be used, including K Nearest
Neighbor (KNN) points or points in a certain radius. After
that, the PointNet layer is used to extract features from each
neighbour region of the centroids. With the increase of the
hierarchical level, the SA layer gradually extracts the features
from a small local area to a larger global region. In this
manner, PointNet++ builds a hierarchical structure to learn
multi-scale features from the point set.
SA layer down-samples the points cloud by progressively
increasing the local region size and reducing the number of
centroids. Semantic segmentation is a dense classiﬁcation task
that requires labels on each point. Instead of using transpose
convolution in a 2D segmentation network, PointNet++ uses
the FP layer to propagate features from the centroids to the
points of the local region. That is, the features of a point are
from the interpolation of nearby centroids weighted based on
the distance from the points to each centroid. The interpolated
features of points are also concatenated with the skip-linked
point features from the SA layer. Then the concatenated
features are passed through a one-by-one convolution in CNNs
and ReLu layers.
Fig. 5. The network architecture of the PointNet++ model, which includes
four SA blocks and four FP blocks. color information of point cloud can be
fused by either early-stage fusion or late-stage fusion ways.
2) Fusion with color Feature: The PointNet++ architecture
can fuse points and other features by increasing the number of

input data channels. For example, PointNet++ use the normal
vector of each point within the point set in the classiﬁcation of
ModelNet40 dataset, and a 1.2% improvement of accuracy is
achieved. PointNet++ has fused the features at the beginning
and the end of the network, named early-stage fusion and later-
stage fusion, respectively, as shown in Figure 5. Similarly, we
input XYZ and RGB values into the network together to test
their effect on the segmentation performance. Unexpectedly,
the segmentation accuracy of using the fusion data drops to
0.72, while the point-only network model can achieve 0.84,
as listed in Table I. To investigate the reason why fusion data
affect the segmentation accuracy, we respectively input color
features in only early-stage fusion or later-stage fusion. Results
show that later-stage fusion can improve the segmentation
accuracy while the accuracy of early-stage fusion is reduced.
Fig. 6. The network architecture of the proposed Fuse-PointNet++ model. A
SA block is used to extract color features of each point, and the processed
feature is fused through the later-stage fusion.
A possible reason leading to the accuracy degeneration
introduced by early-stage feature fusion is the large difference
between feature distributions. Since PointNet++ fuse the multi-
sensor features by simply concatenating with each other and
processing them with convolution operations. When those fea-
tures have large differences in the distribution in feature space,
this operation will affect the learning performance of the net-
work on multi-sensor features. Therefore, we only introduce
color features in later-stage fusion. Rather than directly using
the RGB values on each point, we use a color-only SA block to
gather color features from the neighbourhood of each point.
The introduced later-stage fusion PointNet++ architecture is
named as Fuse-PointNet++ model, and it achieves 0.88 on
segmentation accuracy, as shown in Table I. The network
architecture of the Fuse-PointNet++ model is shown in Figure
6.
3) Sampling and Grouping Strategy: PointNet++ can apply
FPS or Random Sampling (RS) strategy to sample N centroids
from a point cloud with the number of M points and then uses
KNN or distance to gather K points within the neighbourhood
of each centroid. We use the FPS method as it can sample
evenly distributed centroids from the point cloud. Then, a
given number of points within a certain radius is gathered
to extract the local features of each centroid.
C. Class Imbalance Training
1) Training Method: Class imbalance problem occurs when
one class has much more samples than other classes, which
is one of the most signiﬁcant issues in network training [24].
In our case, a point cloud can have up to 16k points, while
only a small subset of points (less than 1k) belongs to positive
samples. The imbalance class can cause training degeneration
since most samples are easy negatives that contribute no
useful backward gradient. Introducing a weighting factor on
training loss or Under-Sampling (US) are the two common
methods to deal with the class imbalance problem. Therefore,
we introduce the under-sampling strategy for training data pre-
processing and introduce a weighting factor on loss function
to alleviate the training degeneration caused by the imbalance
class problem.
Fig. 7. (a) Region A has sufﬁcient fruit points while (b) region B has only
background points. Region A is used in network training while region B is
removed.
Firstly, we set the minimum number of fruits point within
each training sample. That is, the training samples in the small-
scale dataset (point number is 4096) should keep the points
belonging to fruit larger than 1k (as shown in Figure 7), while
the training samples in the large-scale dataset (point number
is 8192) should have fruit points larger than 1.5k, respectively.
Secondly, we introduce the weighting factor α ∈[0, 1] to
balance the loss value of the two classes. The loss function
L(p) is formulated as follows:
L(p) = −1
N
M
X
c=0
αc
N
X
i
1cyilog(pi)
(1)
where yi and pi are the label and prediction of the points,
respectively. αc is the weight factor of the points in class
c. 1c denotes the sign function whether points in class c
(1c = 1) or not (1c = 0). We denote the weighted cross
entropy loss function as WCE in the following experiments.

Fig. 8. A illustration of the used LiDAR-Camera visual sensor, (a) it includes a RealSense-D455 and a Livox Mid-70; (b) the raw input of the visual sensor are
RGB images from the camera and the point cloud from the LiDAR; (c) LiDAR and camera can be automatically calibrated by performing feature extraction
and matching [25]; (d) a demonstration of fused colorized point cloud.
The preliminary results as shown in Table I show that US and
WCE can improve the network training performance. A more
detail experiments of parameter setup of US and WCE are
introduced in the experiment.
TABLE I
COMPARISON OF NETWORK PERFORMANCE UNDER DIFFERENT FUSION
AND TRAINING STRATEGIES.
Input
Fusion Method
Training Method
mIoU
pc
-
-
0.73
pc
-
US
0.79
pc
-
US + WCE
0.81
pc + rgb
early+later fusion
US + WCE
0.75
pc + rgb
early fusion
US + WCE
0.72
pc + rgb
later fusion
US + WCE
0.84
pc + rgb (SA)
later fusion
US + WCE
0.88
2) Training Details: During the training process, the learn-
ing rate and decay rate are respectively set as 0.001 and
0.95 per epoch, and the minimum learning rate is speciﬁed
as 0.0001. The Adam optimizer is used to train the network,
and the batch size is set from 4 to 16 based on the different
number of input points (batch sizes are 4 for 8192, and 16
for 4096, respectively) due to limited memory consumption on
GPU. Data augmentation is conducted on both points and color
images. For point set data, augmentations such as rotation
and adding white noise are introduced, while adjustments of
saturation and brightness are introduced on color information.
We train the network model for 100 epochs and use the
checkpoint with the best validation accuracy in the last epochs
as the ﬁnal network weights.
D. System Implementations
1) LiDAR-camera Fusion: To build a customized and large
3D dataset, we use the LiDAR-Camera sensors that include a
pin-hole camera model to acquire color images and a LiDAR
for 3D points acquisition, as shown in Figure 8. The pin-hole
camera model project a point Cpi ∈R3 from the LiDAR
coordinate to a pixel C ˆpuv ∈R2 on color image plane by
using the equation:
C ˆpuv = π(K ˆT C
L
Lpi)
(2)
where π(·) is the camera distortions model, K is the intrinsic
matrix of camera, ˆT C
L = ( ˆRC
L, ˆtC
C,L) ∈SE(3) (where ˆRC
L ∈
SO(3) and ˆtC
C,L ∈R3) is the extrinsic between the LiDAR
and camera. The intrinsic of the camera is evaluated ﬁrstly,
and then the calibration between LiDAR and camera can be
conducted in either manual or automatic way.
2) Data Collection and Labelling: The data were collected
in the Fankhauser apple orchard located in Melbourne, Aus-
tralia, using the proposed Lidar-camera sensor. The collection
time varied from 10:00 am to 4:00 pm. The distance between
the vision sensor to the tree trunk ranged from 1.2 to 2.5
meters. The scanning height was adjusted to guarantee the
apple trees are within the FoV of both sensors. In total, there
were 152 point cloud data pairs, including ROSbag or PCD
format and 152 corresponding color images. The point clouds
were recorded by setting the scanning time to 10 seconds to
accumulate sufﬁcient points of the scene. Each point cloud
contains approximately 100k to 200k points. The ground truth
of the semantic segmentation was labelled using the open-
source labelling tool on Github 1.
3) Hardware and Software: Both the LiDARs and RGB
camera (Intel Realsense D-435 or D-455) are connected with
an Nvidia Xavier using the Robotic Operation System (ROS)
in the Melodic version of Ubuntu 18.04. The data transmission
between the Livox LiDAR and camera and Nvidia Xavier
is through the Ethernet and USB port. The communica-
tion between Livox LiDARs and Intel RealSense cameras is
achieved by using the Livox-ROS-Driver and Realsense-ROS-
SDK, respectively. Other required packages such as LiDAR-
RGB calibration and fusion nodes are also programmed and
running on ROS. The network models are developed based
on Tensorﬂow-1.15. The network training is performed using
an NVIDIA RTX-3060 (6GB), and the forward inference is
tested on both NVIDIA RTX-3060 and NVIDIA Xavier.
1https://github.com/Hitachi-Automotive-And-Industry-Lab/semantic-
segmentation-editor

III. EXPERIMENTS
A. Experiment Method
In this section, we evaluate the proposed methods in four
experiments. Firstly, an ablation study of the network model
on small-scale and large-scale scenes is presented. Then, the
experiment of semantic segmentation on a complete point
cloud is conducted. After that, the comparison studies of 3D
and 2D segmentation are presented, and segmentation on data
from RGB-D cameras is presented. In the experiment, each
network is trained three times, and the network weights of the
best validation accuracy are saved for performance evaluation.
In the experiments, mIoU is used to evaluate the segmentation
performance of the network.
We use 76 of 152 scenes to create the dataset for network
training, and the rest of the scenes are used to perform training
validation and evaluation. We randomly choose 100-200 seeds
from each point cloud and create the training dataset by
crop the neighbour points of each seed. The training dataset
is classiﬁed into small-scale (M = 4096) and large-scale
(M = 8192) datasets. Each dataset includes from 10000-
15000 training samples by using the proposed pre-processing
methods.
B. Ablation Study of Model
TABLE II
COMPARISON OF SAMPLING AND GROUPING STRATEGIES ON NETWORK
PERFORMANCE
index
Method
N
K
mIoU
1
KNN
1024
24
0.868
2
FPS
1024
24
0.872
3
FPS
1024
12
0.842
4
FPS
1024
48
0.857
5
FPS
512
24
0.833
6
FPS
2048
24
0.867
We ﬁrstly analyse the effect of network parameters on
segmentation performance. Table II shows the evaluation of
segmentation accuracy on centroids sampling and neighbour
points grouping strategy by using the small-scale dataset
(M=4096) on the Fuse-PointNet++ model. Tests 1 and 2 com-
pare the model that uses KNN and FPS sampling strategies,
respectively. Experimental results show that FPS and KNN do
not affect the accuracy signiﬁcantly, while the network with
FPS achieves a slightly higher score compared to the method
of using KNN. Tests 2, 3, and 4 compare the network perfor-
mance of using a different number of grouping points. Results
show that the network achieves the best performance when
K = 24. Tests 2, 5, and 6 compare the network performance
o using a different sampling centroid. Results show that under-
numbered sampling centroids would reduce the accuracy of the
segmentation, while over-number of sampling centroids would
not improve the segmentation accuracy but the computational
consumption is signiﬁcantly increased.
Table III shows the ablation experiment using a differ-
ent scale of neighbour points grouping by using the Fuse-
PointNet++ model on the small-scale dataset. The results of
TABLE III
COMPARISON OF GROUPING SCALE ON NETWORK PERFORMANCE
index
Scale
Nor (Scale)
mIoU
1
0.1 ,→0.2 ,→0.4 ,→0.8
False
0.813
2
0.05 ,→0.1 ,→0.2 ,→0.4
False
0.836
3
0.01 ,→0.02 ,→0.04 ,→0.08
False
0.872
4
0.1 ,→0.2 ,→0.4 ,→0.8
True
0.742
5
0.05 ,→0.1 ,→0.2 ,→0.4
True
0.746
6
0.01 ,→0.025 ,→0.05 ,→0.1
True
0.752
tests 1, 2, and 3 show different grouping scales can lead
to different segmentation accuracy. A small grouping scale
achieves a higher accuracy on segmentation results. Tests
4, 5, and 6 show the network performance by normalizing
the scale of the input point cloud. Results show that the
segmentation accuracy of the network with scale normalizing
drops compared to the un-normalized case. Since fruits always
have a physical scale in the real world, a proper grouping
scale can help the network to learn local features efﬁciently.
Meanwhile, since input clouds always have different spatial
sizes and scale normalization changes the scale of the data,
hence the network performance on segmentation is reduced.
TABLE IV
COMPARISON OF COLOR FUSION ON NETWORK PERFORMANCE
Index
Method
No. channels
mIoU
1
pc
-
0.812
2
raw RGB
3
0.841
3
W/o grouping
32
0.847
4
grouping
32
0.872
5
grouping
16
0.867
6
grouping
64
0.874
Table IV shows the experiment result of using the different
setups on color fusion by using the Fuse-PointNet++ model on
the small-scale dataset. Tests 1 to 4 evaluate the segmentation
accuracy of the network by using the different fusion methods.
Method 1 only uses the point cloud, method 2 concatenates
raw RGB values to the feature vectors, method 3 uses a one-
by-one convolution operation to process color information,
and method 4 applies a SA block to gather the neighbour
of each point and then process the color information within
this neighbour region. Experimental results show that method
3 achieves the best accuracy on network performance. These
results show that grouping can help the network to gather
the spatial distribution of the color features, which is similar
to the convolution operations in 2D image processing. Tests
4, 5, and 6 further investigate the proper number of color
channels for feature fusion. Experimental results show that
although increasing feature channels can slightly improve the
segmentation accuracy, it also brings higher computational re-
quirements. Therefore, we choose the feature channel number
32 in this work.
From the results in this section, we set grouping points num-
ber K=24, grouping scale as 0.01 ,→0.02 ,→0.04 ,→0.08,
and the fusion color feature channels as 32.

Fig. 9. The semantic segmentation of complete scene using the proposed method. (a), (b), and (c) are the input colorized point cloud, (d), (e), and (f) are the
segmentation results of (a), (b), and (c), respectively.
C. Experiment on Training Strategy
This section uses different training strategies in network
training and evaluates the segmentation accuracy of the ob-
tained model. We ﬁrst evaluate the training method to ﬁnd the
optimal parameters for WCE on the small-scale dataset. In
the small-scale training dataset, the average points number of
fruits in a point cloud is 1200 (minimum fruits point in training
samples is 1000) and the total point number of the point cloud
is 4096. We use the optimal network setup from the last section
and evaluate the effect of US and WCE strategies on trained
network performance, the experimental results are shown in
Table V.
TABLE V
COMPARISON OF TRAINING STRATEGY ON NETWORK PERFORMANCE IN
SMALL-SCALE DATASET
Index
Method
No. pts
αnobj
αobj
mIoU
1
CE
250
1.0
1.0
0.757
2
CE
500
1.0
1.0
0.803
3
WCE
500
0.75
1.25
0.822
4
CE
1000
1.0
1.0
0.872
5
WCE
1000
0.85
1.15
0.877
6
WCE
1000
0.75
1.25
0.881
7
WCE
1000
0.65
1.35
0.865
1 CE stands for Cross Entropy.
2 No. pts is the minimum fruit points in training samples.
The results of tests 1, 2, and 4 show that the imbalance
class problem would severely affect the performance of the
model, while under-sampling in the data pre-processing step
could largely alleviate this training degeneration. After the
US on training data (test-4), the segmentation accuracy of
the model is signiﬁcantly improved compared to the training
result without US (test-1). Tests 2 and 3, 4 and 6 compare the
network performance by respectively using cross-entropy loss
and WCE. Results show that WCE can improve approximately
1% to 2% compared to the network trained by the cross-
entropy. Tests 5 to 7 compare the network performance by
using different weight factors in WCE. Results show that dif-
ferent values in WCE can also inﬂuence network performance.
For the small-scale dataset, we set αnobj and αobj respectively
as 0.75 and 1.25 since the network achieves the best accuracy
when using these values.
We further evaluate the training strategies on a large
(M=8192) dataset. The network setup follows the same setup
as the small-scale dataset. The number of centroids points in
the sampling step is set as 2048 and the training batch size
is 6. In the middle-scale training dataset, the average points
number of fruits in a point cloud is 1800 (minimum fruits point
in training samples is 1500) and the total point number of the
point cloud is 8192. The experiments are shown in Table VI.
Tests 1, 2, and 3 evaluate the network performance by
setting a different minimum number of fruit points in data pre-
processing. Results show that imbalance class problems could
lead to severe performance degeneration in large-scale dataset
training. Increasing the minimum number of fruits point in

TABLE VI
COMPARISON OF TRAINING STRATEGY ON NETWORK PERFORMANCE IN
LARGE-SCALE DATASET
Index
N1
Method
No. pts2
αnobj
αobj
mIoU
1
2048
CE3
500
1.0
1.0
0.667
2
2048
CE
1000
1.0
1.0
0.712
3
2048
CE
1500
1.0
1.0
0.767
4
1024
CE
1500
1.0
1.0
0.722
54
3072
CE
1500
1.0
1.0
0.784
6
2048
WCE
1500
0.75
1.25
0.786
7
2048
WCE
1500
0.60
1.40
0.797
8
2048
WCE
1500
0.50
1.50
0.808
9
2048
WCE
1500
0.40
1.60
0.793
1 N is the centroid number in sampling step.
2 No. pts is the minimum fruit points in training samples.
3 CE stands for Cross Entropy.
4 Training batch size set as 3.
training samples could improve the network performance to a
certain degree. Tests 3, 4, and 5 evaluate the network perfor-
mance in the large-scale dataset by using different centroids
numbers in the sampling step. Results show that an increase of
centroids can improve the ﬁnal segmentation accuracy but the
computational consumption also grows. Therefore, we choose
the centroids number N = 2048 as it achieves the balance
between performance and computational efﬁciency. Tests 6 to
9 evaluate the network performance by using the WCE during
the training process. Results show that WCE can improve
the training results by re-weighting the loss. The proposed
Network achieves the best accuracy (mIoU = 0.808) when
αnobj and αobj are set as 0.5 and 1.5, respectively.
D. Segmentation in Orchards
Fig. 10.
Details of the semantic segmentation on point cloud using the
proposed method.
After evaluation of the key network parameters and train-
ing strategies respectively in the small-scale and large-scale
datasets, this section evaluates the network performance on
semantic segmentation of the complete point cloud. The input
point cloud is ﬁrstly subdivided into small blocks by the Octree
algorithm, each node should contain a point that less than
the given threshold. We respectively use the network trained
by using the small-scale dataset (network-S) and large-scale
dataset (network-L). A complete point cloud of a scene after
octree subdivision always contains 15 to 30 local blocks for
network-L to process, and a double number of blocks for
network-S to process. The accuracy of the network-S and
network-L on complete scene segmentation is shown in Table
VII.
TABLE VII
ACCURACY EVALUATION OF NETWORK ON COMPLETE SCENE
SEGMENTATION
Index
Method
No. blocks1
mIoU
1
Network-S
28.8
0.862
2
Network-L
17.4
0.794
1 No. blocks is the mean number of subdivided
blocks of a scene.
The result shows that both networks trained by small-scale
and large-scale datasets have a slight accuracy reduction on
complete scene segmentation compared to their performance
on the evaluation dataset. The possible reason is due to the
different distribution of classes between training data and
the original point cloud. As the utilized data pre-processing
strategy under-sampling the non-objects classes to improve the
training efﬁcacy. Overall, the complete scene segmentation by
using Network-S achieved 86.2% on mIoU. The visualization
results of the complete scene segmentation are shown in Figure
9. Figure 10 shows the details of the segmentation result.
E. Segmentation using RGB-D Cameras
In our previous study, a LiDAR-Camera sensor and a
multi-sensor data fusion method are developed to obtain high
accuracy colorized point cloud from the orchard environ-
ments. In this work, we demonstrate a pipeline and a deep-
learning-based network to perform semantic segmentation on
the colorized point cloud. For comparison, we evaluate the
performance of the proposed network with or without RGB
information on data acquired by using the Intel RealSense-
D455, a stereo-depth camera that has been widely applied in
many agricultural types of research. We collect the RGB-D
data of a tree from different distances (0.8m and 2.0m) in
orchard environments, the resolution of the color and depth
images are 640 × 480. The accuracy of semantic segmentation
by using Network-S on RGB-D data from Intel RealSense-
D455 is shown in Table VIII.
TABLE VIII
ACCURACY OF NETWORK USING THE RGB-D CAMERA
Index
Distance
mIoUpc
mIoUfused
1
0.8
0.763
0.797
2
1.2
0.712
0.752
3
1.6
0.654
0.704
4
2.0
0.524
0.627
Results show that the accuracy of the segmentation drops
dramatically with the increase in the distance between the
sensor and the tree. Also, the network using fused data shows
better accuracy compared to the network that only uses the
point cloud, which shows that color information can help
improve the accuracy of the segmentation when the point cloud
has limited quality. These results also indicate that network

using fused data has better robustness to deal with data quality
degeneration in real implementations.
F. Comparison with 2D segmentation method
We further compare the segmentation accuracy of our
proposed method and the SOTA 2D segmentation network
Deeplab-v3+ 2. The training data of 2D segmentation is from
the 2D RGB image of each fused data. We use 76 images to
train the network, 38 images for validation during training, and
the rest 38 for evaluation. Image augmentation such as color
adjustment in HSV space, translation, and rotation is applied.
The training resolution is 512 × 512. We used ResNet51 as
the backbone and pre-trained models from Pascal VOC and
Cityscapes datasets. The mIoU of the trained network on 2D
segmentation is 0.8075. The point cloud colorized by using
segmentation results from 2D segmentation methods is shown
in Figure 11.
Fig. 11. The segmentation results of using the 2D segmentation method, (a)
segmentation result of the complete scene; (b) details of the segmentation re-
sult; (c) details of the segmentation result using the proposed 3D segmentation
method.
It can be seen that 3D segmentation methods achieve better
accuracy on fruit segmentation compared to 2D segmentation.
As shown in Figure 11, laser beam divergence angle may
cause fake points near the objects’ edge. Due to lack of
information from the point cloud, 2D segmentation methods
have limited performance when dealing with this inherent
defect of LiDAR data, while 3D segmentation capability in
this condition. Meanwhile, 3D segmentation methods can
also be easily integrated with SLAM, a common framework
to obtain the point cloud models of large-scale scenes. 3D
segmentation network can be directly applied to the colorized
3D point clouds. This means the segmentation task takes both
geometry and color information into the feature extraction
process, which can potentially compensate for the error caused
by the noisy outlier points in 3D point clouds and by the
Lidar-camera extrinsic calibration. However, 2D segmentation
is conducted on RGB images initially and requires an accurate
calibration between 2D to 3D data to achieve promising
performance.
IV. DISCUSSIONS
This study proposes a deep-learning-based point cloud
segmentation network to perform semantic segmentation on
2https://github.com/VainF/DeepLabV3Plus-Pytorch
fused colorized point cloud data acquired using the LiDAR-
Camera sensor. An octree subdivision algorithm is used to
subdivide the complete scene into multiple blocks to perform
segmentation on a large number of points (100k - 200k points).
The point cloud from each block is processed by the net-
work and then added together to form the ﬁnal segmentation
results. Multi-sensor data fusion and network training under
imbalance class distribution are two critical problems that need
to be solved in point cloud segmentation network training.
For multi-sensor data fusion, we analyze the architecture of
the PointNet++ model and develop a later-fusion strategy to
fuse color features into point cloud processing, which largely
improves the segmentation accuracy of the model. For network
training under imbalance class distribution, we utilize the
under-sampling strategy in data pre-processing and WCE loss
function during training, which secures the network training
performance in dealing with the imbalance class training
problem.
In the experiments, we analyze the effect of different
sampling and grouping strategies in SA block within the
pointNet++ architecture. Results show that the insufﬁcient
number of centroids and grouping of neighbour points may
lead to network performance degeneration. In contrast, the
excessive number of centroids and grouping of neighbour
points can largely increase the computational requirements.
After that, we evaluate the network performance by applying
different fusion designs in network architecture. The results
show that the proposed later-stage fusion can largely improve
the network accuracy using fused data from LiDAR-Camera.
Moreover, we analyze the imbalance class problem in network
training. The under-sampling and WCE are utilized to enhance
the training efﬁcacy of the network. Overall, with proper
design of the network architecture and training strategies,
the proposed Fuse-PointNet++ model achieves 0.881 on the
evaluation dataset and 0.862 on complete scene segmentation
from the real orchard.
For comparison, we use the 3D segmentation network on
fused data from an RGB-D camera. Results show that the
accuracy of the network on the RGB-D camera shows a
large reduction. The possible reason for this performance
degeneration is the low accuracy of the point cloud data from
the RGB-D camera. This result indicates that an accurate input
point clout is essential to secure the performance of the point-
based segmentation network. Furthermore, we compare the
segmentation performance using the SOTA 2D segmentation
method. Results show that 3D segmentation achieves a better
score on accuracy. Meanwhile, since 3D segmentation methods
can efﬁciently learn the geometrical features by the multi-scale
grouping operations, our proposed Fuse-PointNet++ model has
better capability to classify noise points near the edge of the
objects.
V. CONCLUSION
In this work, a deep-learning-based 3D segmentation net-
work is presented to perform fruit segmentation on a high-
resolution point cloud. The proposed method can efﬁciently

fuse the features from both objects’ texture and geometrical
appearances. Meanwhile, the proposed method utilized an
under-sampling data pre-processing strategy and WCE loss
function to improve the training performance when dealing
with imbalance class problems. Our method is evaluated in
both the evaluation dataset and complete scene segmentation,
which are collected by using the LiDAR-Camera sensor in ap-
ple orchards. Overall, the proposed Fuse-PointNet++ network
model achieved a mIoU of 0.881 on the evaluation dataset and
0.862 on complete scene segmentation. Experimental results
show that our proposed method can perform accurate semantic
segmentation of fruits in real orchards environments. Future
work will investigate the feature fusion and network training
strategies under the imbalance class condition to improve the
segmentation accuracy on the point cloud.
REFERENCES
[1] X. Wang, H. Kang, H. Zhou, W. Au, and C. Chen, “Geometry-aware fruit
grasping estimation for robotic harvesting in apple orchards,” Computers
and Electronics in Agriculture, vol. 193, p. 106716, 2022.
[2] H. Zhou, X. Wang, W. Au, H. Kang, and C. Chen, “Intelligent robots for
fruit harvesting: Recent developments and future challenges,” Precision
Agriculture, pp. 1–52, 2022.
[3] F. Westling, J. Underwood, and M. Bryson, “A procedure for automated
tree pruning suggestion using lidar scans of fruit trees,” Computers and
Electronics in Agriculture, vol. 187, p. 106274, 2021.
[4] A. Scalisi, L. McClymont, J. Underwood, P. Morton, S. Scheding, and
I. Goodwin, “Reliability of a commercial platform for estimating ﬂower
cluster and fruit number, yield, tree geometry and light interception in
apple trees under different rootstocks and row orientations,” Computers
and Electronics in Agriculture, vol. 191, p. 106519, 2021.
[5] C. R. Qi, H. Su, K. Mo, and L. J. Guibas, “Pointnet: Deep learning on
point sets for 3d classiﬁcation and segmentation,” in Proceedings of the
IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, 2017, pp.
652–660.
[6] Z. Zhuang, R. Li, K. Jia, Q. Wang, Y. Li, and M. Tan, “Perception-aware
multi-sensor fusion for 3d lidar semantic segmentation,” in Proceedings
of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision, 2021,
pp. 16 280–16 290.
[7] P. Wang, P. Chen, Y. Yuan, D. Liu, Z. Huang, X. Hou, and G. Cottrell,
“Understanding convolution for semantic segmentation,” in 2018 IEEE
winter conference on applications of computer vision (WACV).
IEEE,
2018, pp. 1451–1460.
[8] A. Valada, J. Vertens, A. Dhall, and W. Burgard, “Adapnet: Adaptive
semantic segmentation in adverse environmental conditions,” in 2017
IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA).
IEEE, 2017, pp. 4644–4651.
[9] S. Asgari Taghanaki, K. Abhishek, J. P. Cohen, J. Cohen-Adad, and
G. Hamarneh, “Deep semantic segmentation of natural and medical
images: a review,” Artiﬁcial Intelligence Review, vol. 54, no. 1, pp. 137–
178, 2021.
[10] D. Feng, C. Haase-Sch¨utz, L. Rosenbaum, H. Hertlein, C. Glaeser,
F. Timm, W. Wiesbeck, and K. Dietmayer, “Deep multi-modal object
detection and semantic segmentation for autonomous driving: Datasets,
methods, and challenges,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transporta-
tion Systems, vol. 22, no. 3, pp. 1341–1360, 2020.
[11] G. Lin, Y. Tang, X. Zou, and C. Wang, “Three-dimensional recon-
struction of guava fruits and branches using instance segmentation and
geometry analysis,” Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, vol. 184,
p. 106107, 2021.
[12] R. Yamashita, M. Nishio, R. K. G. Do, and K. Togashi, “Convolutional
neural networks: an overview and application in radiology,” Insights into
imaging, vol. 9, no. 4, pp. 611–629, 2018.
[13] J. Long, E. Shelhamer, and T. Darrell, “Fully convolutional networks
for semantic segmentation,” in Proceedings of the IEEE conference on
computer vision and pattern recognition, 2015, pp. 3431–3440.
[14] O. Ronneberger, P. Fischer, and T. Brox, “U-net: Convolutional networks
for biomedical image segmentation,” in International Conference on
Medical image computing and computer-assisted intervention. Springer,
2015, pp. 234–241.
[15] L.-C. Chen, G. Papandreou, F. Schroff, and H. Adam, “Rethinking
atrous convolution for semantic image segmentation,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:1706.05587, 2017.
[16] K. Zou, X. Chen, Y. Wang, C. Zhang, and F. Zhang, “A modiﬁed u-net
with a speciﬁc data argumentation method for semantic segmentation
of weed images in the ﬁeld,” Computers and Electronics in Agriculture,
vol. 187, p. 106242, 2021.
[17] Z. Wu, R. Yang, F. Gao, W. Wang, L. Fu, and R. Li, “Segmentation of
abnormal leaves of hydroponic lettuce based on deeplabv3+ for robotic
sorting,” Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, vol. 190, p. 106443,
2021.
[18] Y. Peng, A. Wang, J. Liu, and M. Faheem, “A comparative study of
semantic segmentation models for identiﬁcation of grape with different
varieties,” Agriculture, vol. 11, no. 10, p. 997, 2021.
[19] H. Wei, E. Xu, J. Zhang, Y. Meng, J. Wei, Z. Dong, and Z. Li, “Bushnet:
Effective semantic segmentation of bush in large-scale point clouds,”
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, vol. 193, p. 106653, 2022.
[20] Y. Chen, Y. Xiong, B. Zhang, J. Zhou, and Q. Zhang, “3d point cloud
semantic segmentation toward large-scale unstructured agricultural scene
classiﬁcation,” Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, vol. 190, p.
106445, 2021.
[21] Q. Yu, H. Yang, Y. Gao, X. Ma, G. Chen, and X. Wang, “Lfpnet:
Lightweight network on real point sets for fruit classiﬁcation and
segmentation,” Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, vol. 194, p.
106691, 2022.
[22] C. R. Qi, L. Yi, H. Su, and L. J. Guibas, “Pointnet++: Deep hierarchical
feature learning on point sets in a metric space,” Advances in neural
information processing systems, vol. 30, 2017.
[23] H. Kang, X. Wang, and C. Chen, “Accurate fruit localisation for robotic
harvesting using high resolution lidar-camera fusion,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2205.00404, 2022.
[24] X. Yuan, L. Xie, and M. Abouelenien, “A regularized ensemble frame-
work of deep learning for cancer detection from multi-class, imbalanced
training data,” Pattern Recognition, vol. 77, pp. 160–172, 2018.
[25] C. Yuan, X. Liu, X. Hong, and F. Zhang, “Pixel-level extrinsic self cal-
ibration of high resolution lidar and camera in targetless environments,”
IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, vol. 6, no. 4, pp. 7517–7524,
2021.
