(IJACSA) International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications,
Vol. 10, No. 2, 2019
Overlapped Apple Fruit Yield Estimation using Pixel
Classiﬁcation and Hough Transform
Zartash Kanwal1, Abdul Basit2, Muhammad Jawad3, Ihsan Ullah4, Anwar Ali Sanjrani5
Computer Science and Information Tecnology, University of Balochistan
Quetta, Pakistan
Abstract—Researchers proposed various visual based methods
for estimating the fruit quantity and performing qualitative
analysis, they used ariel and ground vehicles to capture the
fruit images in orchards. Fruit yield estimation is a challenging
task with environmental noise such as illumination changes, color
variation, overlapped fruits, cluttered environment, and branches
or leaves shading. In this paper, we proposed a learning free
fast visual based method to correctly count the apple fruits
tightly overlapped in a complex outdoor orchard environment.
We ﬁrst carefully build the color based HS model to perform
the color based segmentation. This step extracts the apple fruits
from the complex orchard background and produces the blobs
representing apples along with the additional noisy regions. We
used the ﬁne tuned morphological operators to reﬁne the blobs
received from the previous step and remove the noisy regions fol-
lowed by the Gaussian smoothing. Finally we treated the circular
shaped blobs with Hough Transform algorithm to calculate the
center coordinates of each apple edge and the method correctly
locates the apples in the images. The results ensures the proposed
algorithm successfully detects and count apple fruits in the images
captured from apple orchard and outperforms the standard state
of the art contoured based method.
Keywords—Apple detection; pixel classiﬁcation; curvature esti-
mation; Hough circle transform; visual tracking; color segmenta-
tion
I.
INTRODUCTION
The frequently used typical fruit yield estimation methods
are usually based on historical data, weather conditions and
manually sampling statistics. However these methods are all
time-consuming, requires huge human resource and their pre-
diction results are not accurate enough. The autonomous and
accurate visual based fruit yield estimation can help farmers
to improve fruit quality through reasonable pruning, designing
planting and harvest plan.
Visual data such as images are the good source to analyze
and monitor the growth of apple fruit in the orchard. Images
are the supporting technology to study the apple and apple
tree growth rhythm quantitatively but it lacks the automation
process such as fruit count and size analysis.
Authors used various computer vision and machine learn-
ing techniques to estimate the yield estimation of different
fruits. In this paper our concern is on quantitative analysis
of the tightly overlapped apple fruit in the complex cluttered
orchard environment. We propose a machine learning free
novel visual based method to count the overlapped apple fruits.
Next in this section, we discuss the existing methods that
estimates the fruit yield estimation.
A. Color based Segmentation
Wang et al. [1] used two cameras stereo rigs for image
acquisition, and showed the system worked smoothly with
red and green apples both. The proposed system used with
controlled artiﬁcial lighting at night time, and the software
has a restriction during dealing with fruit clusters composed
of more than two apples.
Payne et al. [2] proposed an approach to calculate the
mango fruits from daytime images on individual tree. The
method segmented the pixels into the fruit area and back-
ground by applying color segmentation using RGB and YCbCr
color spaces with threshold methods. The speciﬁc connectivity
regions used to count the number of fruits. However the
method did not consider the circumstances of overlapping and
covering.
Zhou et al. [3] proposed an apple fruit recognition al-
gorithm based on color features computed on the difference
of R-B (red minus blue) and the G-R (green minus red) to
estimate the fruits quantity. The method did not well adapt
to the changes of illumination and shading problems among
fruits, branches and leaves.
Nuske et al. [4] presented an autonomous method to detect
and count grape berries. They used both shape and visual
texture features to detect berry and demonstrated segmentation
of green berries from green leaves. The method used radial
symmetry transform and led to a large amount of arithmetic
operation.
Hung et al. [5] proposed the multi-class image segmenta-
tion method to automate fruit segmentation without pre-deﬁned
features descriptor. A feature learning algorithm joined with
a conditional random ﬁeld and was used to process multi-
spectral image data.
Various authors worked on crop yield assessment by using
digital camera acquired images and practiced for crops such
as wheat [6], wild blueberry [7] and rice [8].
The discussed visual methods did not consider the circum-
stances of overlapping and cluttered environment and did not
incorporate the concept of objects so that it could not provide
the actual fruit count.
B. Feature Classiﬁcation
Lak et al.[9] developed an algorithm based on color-shape
and edge detection to segments the red apple from images
obtained under the different natural lighting. The method
ﬁltered the images, converted them to binary and reduced the
www.ijacsa.thesai.org
567 | P a g e

(IJACSA) International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications,
Vol. 10, No. 2, 2019
noise. Color-shape supported algorithm detects the apple fruits
in the image while edge detection supported algorithm was not
successful to segment the red apples.
Moonrinta et al. [10] build a framework procedure that is
based on image processing methods for detection and tracking
of the pineapple fruit along with 3D reconstruction. They
employed scale invariant SIFT and SURF descriptor with
SVM learning and carried series of experiments to receive
the pineapple feature classiﬁcation, fruit blob tracking, 3D
reconstruction, structure from motion and ellipse estimation.
They obtained that the SURF feature points and descriptors
give the ﬁnest trade-off among classiﬁcation accuracy and
processing time and the technique adequately effective for fruit
region detection.
C. Learning based Methods
Seng et al. [11] used k-nearest neighbors (k-NN) to detect
apple fruits. In ﬁrst step, the authors detected apple pixels
using fruit texture and color. The k-NN classiﬁer produced
pixels association towards “apple” along with “non-apple”
items. In the second step they detected apples and estimated
the growth of apple surface by its seed area. Additionally, they
used (blobs) linked sets of apple pixels to detect the areas of
apples and wrap up region of an apple to the concern. In third
step they carried apple detection and contour segmentation by
analysing the contour of every blobs.
Unay et al. [12] introduced a method for apple fruit
detection and its quality classiﬁcation with multilayer percep-
tron (MLP) neural networks. The primary examination of the
quality classiﬁcation system used for “Golden Delicious” and
“Jonagold” apples. Next they selected the texture, colour and
wavelet features from the apple images. Principal components
analysis (PCA) was utilized on a selected features and carried
some introductory performance tests with single and multilayer
perceptions (MLP).
Tabb et al. [13] proposed a technique for the segmentation
of apple fruit from video using background modeling. They
used global mixture of Gaussian (GMOG) that worked on the
principles of mixture of Gaussian (MOG) for motion detection.
Gaussian mixture models (GMMs) are the signiﬁcantly de-
veloped techniques for clustering. A Gaussian mixture model
is probabilistic model which assume all the data points that
are initiated from a mixture of ﬁnite number of Gaussian
distributions with unspeciﬁed parameters.
Dubey et al. [14] divided color images using soft comput-
ing techniques. The soft computing techniques they used are
possibilistic c-means (PCM) algorithm and competitive neural
network. Fuzzy logic and Fuzzy set techniques also used by
researchers and investigators for resolving segmentation issues.
The learning methods never discussed, how to segregate the
overlapped fruit regions and count them correctly, the methods
may be good in detecting the fruit regions.
D. Overlapped Fruit Estimation
Xu et al. [15] proposed a technique for strawberry detection
using image sensor mounted on strawberry harvesting robot.
The technique laid on the histogram of oriented gradients
(HOG) descriptor, that combined with support vector machine
(SVM) classiﬁer. The detection method concerns with two
stages. First, the strawberry-similar regions detected from HSV
(hue, saturation, value) color information. They calculated
the HOG descriptor by dividing the image into ﬁve region
of interest (ROI), later the descriptor is an input to the
SVM classiﬁer that detects the strawberries. The vector sizes
efﬁciently reduced and higher detection speed attained without
effecting the accuracy (relative to conventional approaches).
The technique also appropriately handle slightly overlapping
strawberries.
The state of the art the contour based [16] appearance
analysis and object categorization is also unable to detect the
overlapped region of the fruits accurately.
All the above methods either require a complex training or
lacking to analyze the curvature of fruit to accurately count
the tightly overlapped fruits.
In this paper we took a step towards curvature analysis
and pixel based segmentation and propose a fast, novel and
learning free model to segment the tightly overlapped apple
fruits from the background and count them in real time. We
combined the pixel classiﬁcation for fruit segmentation with
curvature analysis using Hough circle transform to segregate
the overlapped fruits and count them correctly.
Our method is robust in illumination changes, occluded
by leaves and branches, overlapped by other apples, complex
background and other issues under natural light and ﬁeld
conditions, see Fig. 1.
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
Fig. 1.
Apple in different environment. (a). Illumination uneven. (b). Apple
sheltered by branches. (c). Apples overlapped. (d). Sheltered by leaves.
www.ijacsa.thesai.org
568 | P a g e

(IJACSA) International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications,
Vol. 10, No. 2, 2019
II.
PROPOSED METHODOLOGY
The proposed methodology ﬁrst apply image preprocessing
steps to the image inclusive of noise reduction and image
enhancement. Later, we employ the pixel segmentation based
on color to subtract the background and detect the region of
interest with the apple fruits, later the image is reprocessed
by applying morphological operators and Gaussian smoothing
to reﬁne the image. Finally the method estimates the centroid
of the circular regions using Hough circle transform technique
and counts the apple.
The block diagram gives a review of the proposed method
with various steps in a consecutive order, see Fig. 2. We
describe the details of each step in the succeeding sub-sections.
Fig. 2.
The proposed method block diagram.
A. Pre-processing and Color Space Generation
The preprocessing of image aims at selectively removing
the redundancy present in captured images without affecting
the details that play a key role in the overall process.
In proposed method, we ﬁrst read the image in RGB (red,
green, blue) format. Reading the image in color format is
important to perform the pixel based segmentation in the later
phase. Next, we apply the Gaussian method to smooth the
image and suppress the noise.
After the preprocessing, we convert the image into HSV
(hue, saturation and value) color space to segment the im-
age. HSV describes the color in the hue (color), saturation
(vibrancy) and value (brightness). The reason to use HSV for
the segmentation because of it robustness towards illumination
and shadow removal that separates the color information from
intensity and it describes the color as the human eye perceive
the color [17].
We remove the (V) element from the HSV color space as it
has no effect in the color segmentation and it possesses strong
response to light variations. We carry the further processing in
later phases on HS image.
RGB to HSV conversion formula:
R′ = R / 255
G′ = G / 255
B′ = B / 255
Cmax = max(R′, G′, B′)
Cmin = min(R′, G′, B′)
∆= Cmax −Cmin
(1)
Hue, Saturation and Value calculations:
H =

















60◦×

G′−B′
∆
mod 6

60◦×

B′−R′
∆
+ 2

60◦×

R′−G′
∆
+ 6

S =
∆
Cmax
, V = Cmin
(2)
B. Pixel Classiﬁcation
The apple fruits grow on bunches, overlapped and sur-
rounded by the green leaves of the tree in orchard. Pixel
classiﬁcation is an important phase to segment the image and
extract fruits such as apple fruits in our case.
After the conversion to HSV, we deﬁne the lower and
higher range of the apple color to threshold the image.
lower_red = (0, 23, 30)
upper_red = (23, 255, 255)
Once we generate a desired color range, we apply it to the HS
image to extract the apple regions from the image and throw
the unwanted pixels. This process returns the binary image
where 1 indicates the white color regions and shows apple
blobs where 0 values show black color and unprocessed by
the algorithm in later phases.
Next we use this binary image as a mask and apply it over
original image to segment the image and extract the desired
fruit regions.
After the pixel classiﬁcation, we segment the image and
the apple fruits are correctly extracted from the cluttered
background, see Fig. 3. The ﬁgure concludes that apple color
identifying model effectively removes the background pixels
shown in black color and segment the apple pixels out. In the
later phases, we continue to use the binary image produced by
the color classiﬁcation method.
www.ijacsa.thesai.org
569 | P a g e

(IJACSA) International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications,
Vol. 10, No. 2, 2019
(a)
(b)
Fig. 3.
Pixel classiﬁcation. (a). HS color image. (b). Color based segmenta-
tion.
C. Reprocess the Blobs
After the image segmentation using color information, the
output binary image contains the smaller noisy blobs and
some open blobs generated by occlusion and the cluttered
environment, see Fig. 4.
Fig. 4.
Noisy smaller blobs and open blobs generated by occluded fruit and
cluttered environment.
The morphological operators are the best choice to get rid
of these noisy blobs and restructure the existing blobs. It deals
with modifying the geometric structure in the image and reﬁnes
the segmented image by smoothing the object boundaries by
ﬁlling small holes and eliminating small holes.
We used the two fundamental morphological operators
erode and dilate to better structure the blobs. We ﬁrst apply the
erode to the binary image to remove the smaller noisy blobs
followed by the dilation to ﬁll or close the open blobs in the
image. After applying the morphological operators the output
image is left with bigger and smooth blobs. We expect the
output blobs would nearly be circular in nature and overlapped
over each other, see Fig. 5.
Finally in this phase, we smooth the image again using the
Gaussian ﬁlter to better apply the curvature analysis algorithm
in the later phase.
D. Curvature Estimation with Hough Circle Transform
The contour of a perfect apple can be well represented as a
circle along the radius within a pre-deﬁned range [18]. Because
(a)
(b)
Fig. 5.
Reprocessing the blobs. (a). Morphological operator erode applied to
eliminate the smaller blobs. (b). Morphological operator dilate applied to ﬁll
the open blobs. image.
of individual differences and the impact of the position, we
usually found the variable apple shapes in images. However,
in general, the shape of an apple has high similarity with
roundness and we receive the apple partial round contour from
different view points.
The second genuine challenge is the overlapping and
shading that makes the shape of an apple in the image as
an incomplete circle. We left with the incomplete overlapped
circular objects and determined the circular curve as the
standard apple shape.
We found the Hough circles is the best solution for the
aforementioned challenges and count the partial overlapped
regions of the apple fruit. The better tuned Hough circles
can better identify the circular regions and help counting the
apples.
After applying the morphological operators, we received
the overlapped blobs from the previous step. In this phase, we
apply the Hough circles to detect the overlapped and partial
round shape objects in the image. The method successfully
identiﬁes the circular regions and help counting the apple
accurately, see Fig. 6.
(a)
(b)
Fig. 6.
Counting apples using Hough circle transform. (a). Apple fruits blob
received from previous step. (b). Hough circle applied and correctly estimate
the apples. The green circle shows the count of apples.
1) Hough circle explained: Hough transform is the shape
positioning technique in image analysis. The aim of using this
technique was to obtain inaccurate instances of objects within
certain class of shapes by a voting mechanism. This voting
www.ijacsa.thesai.org
570 | P a g e

(IJACSA) International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications,
Vol. 10, No. 2, 2019
mechanism carried out in a parameter space, from this space
the object candidates achieved when the local maxima in this
space was found. With respect to the template matching, fewer
computing resources were required by the Hough transform
[19].
The parameter space and the voting procedure are deﬁned
by Equation (3).
 xo = x −r cos(θ)
yo = y −r sin(θ)
(3)
In which, the point of (x0, y0) represents the center of circle,
and r represents the radius of a circle. For a given range of r,
the center of each circle can be detected through circle Hough
transform (CHT) algorithm. Accordingly the circle number can
be calculated by the accumulation of point of (x0, y0).
E. Proposed Algorithm Steps
Steps that have been carried out for this study, they are:
1)
Obtain an input apple image in RGB color space.
2)
Convert the input image into the HSV color space,
remove the value (V) element and left with HS color
image.
3)
Apply the pixel classiﬁcation to remove the unwanted
image regions (leaves, branches, stems) or pixels
from the image.
4)
Reprocess the image using morphological operators,
erode to remove the smaller blobs and dilate to close
the open blobs, and received the true circular blobs.
5)
We smooth the image again with Gaussian ﬁlter.
6)
We apply the Hough circle transform for the curvature
estimation to circle the partial round shapes.
7)
Finally output the total count of apples in the image.
III.
EXPERIMENTS AND RESULTS
In order to examine the robustness of the proposed ap-
proach, we have selected 36 images of apple fruits from
different orchard with varying illumination, color and cluttered
background. The images includes overlapped apples occluding
each other.
We divided the experiments into two categories, in ex-
periment I, we applied the proposed method on the various
images and showed the successful counting of apple fruits.
In Experiment II, we carried the quantitative analysis of the
proposed method.
A. Experiment I
In Experiment I, we picked various images with the over-
lapped apple fruits and test the robustness of the proposed
method in different environments.
We divided the experimental images into two sets. For
each set of images, we showed the results of the four key
phases of the proposed method and excluded the minor steps
that includes image processing techniques. The four phases
are generating HS image, color based segmentation, blob
smoothing and restructuring with morphological operations
and counting apples using Hough circle transform. The di-
vision of images in two sets of images are only for the sake
of clarity and better understanding of the proposed method.
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
Fig. 7.
Image set II. (a) HS image. (b) Pixel classiﬁcation. (c) Reprocess the
image with morphological operators. (d) Curvature estimation using Hough
circle transform.
1) Image set I: The ﬁrst group of images consists of three
image frames with different background, color and shading.
Each row shows the four important steps, see Fig. 7.
The ground truth for the ﬁrst row image frame contains
ﬁve apples, we ﬁrst generate the HS model from the original
image and later apply the color based segmentation correctly.
The color based segmentation generates the blobs in binary
image format along with the noisy blobs. The noise are the
blobs that do not contribute in the apple shape, these blobs
are either tiny or broken. We use the Morphological operators
in the next step to remove the noisy blobs and generate the
well reﬁned and structured blobs. We ﬁrst applied the erode
to remove the tiny blobs followed by dilate to ﬁx the broken
blobs. The ﬁne tuned morphological operator generates well
structured and shaped blobs, see Fig. 7-(c) in ﬁrst row. Finally
the last image in ﬁrst row shows the true apples circled in
green by the Hough circle transform. The proposed method
correctly circled and counted the overlapped all ﬁve apples in
the cluttered environment, see ﬁrst row of Fig. 7.
The second row of the ﬁrst set of image consists of ten
apples with more complex environment than ﬁrst image. The
HS model generated from the original image followed by
application of color based segmentation with accurateness, the
step also generated the smaller noisy blobs, see Fig. 7-(b) in
second row. The third image in the second row shows the
well reﬁned blobs generated after applying the morphological
operators erode and dilate. In ﬁnal phase, we used Hough
transform to count and encircle the apples in green. The
proposed method correctly circled the nine apples, see Fig. 7-
(d) in second row.
The third row of ﬁrst image frame comprises of six apples,
We successfully show the result of all four key phases and the
method detects and counts all the genuine apples circled in
green by the Hough transform. The proposed method correctly
circle the overlapping ﬁve apples and missed one apple, the
method also detected one wrong apple, see Fig. 7-(d) in third
row.
www.ijacsa.thesai.org
571 | P a g e

(IJACSA) International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications,
Vol. 10, No. 2, 2019
2) Image set II: The second group of images consist of
two images taken from various frames of the video stream,
see Fig. 8. This image set holds more complex environment
and many apples than the image set I.
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
Fig. 8.
Image set II. (a). HSV image (b). Pixel classiﬁcation (c). Reprocess
the image. (d). Curvature estimation using Hough circle transform.
The ﬁrst image frame comprises of thirteen apples encom-
passing the generation of HS model from the original image to
later administer the color based segmentation accurately with
the smaller noisy blobs, see Fig. 7-(b) in ﬁrst row. The third
image in the ﬁrst row showed the well reﬁned blobs after
applying the morphological operators erode and dilate. The
ﬁne tuned morphological operators generated well structured
and shaped blobs, see Fig. 7-(c) in ﬁrst row. Finally the last
image in ﬁrst row shows the true apples circled in green by
the Hough circle transform. The proposed method correctly
estimate the twelve apples and counted the overlapped apples
in cluttered environment, see Fig. 7-(d) in ﬁrst row. There is
little chance for the apple detecting algorithm to generate false
detecting results as there is a range for the parameter of radius,
not all circles can be recognized if the apples stayed too far
away and turned too small in the image.
The second image frame includes twelve apples that
involves the production of HS image from original image
followed by the application of color based segmentation with
accurateness, see Fig. 7-(b) in second row. After applying the
morphological operators erode and dilate, well reﬁned and
ﬁne tuned blobs produced, see Fig. 7-(c) in second row. The
proposed method Hough transform correctly circled twelve
apples and counted the overlapping and packed apples, see
Fig. 7-(d) in second row.
B. Experiment II
We also carried the quantitative analysis of the proposed
method and compared with the state of the art contoured based
color based classiﬁcation.
In this experiment, we took a video of 5 various frames
from a video stream of an apple orchard. The ground truth
consists of total 46 apples. The proposed method detected 43
apples correctly with the true positive (TP) rate of 93.48%,
whereas the state of the art contour based method detected
only 19 apples with the true positive rate of 41.31%. Our
proposed curvature estimation dramatically beat the contour
based method with high margin.
The contour based method is only good in drawing the
boundaries of the detected object, the method is unable to
detect the overlapping regions and count them correctly, es-
pecially the overlapping fruits in our case, it detected only
19 apples. The method return only one circle for the four
overlapping fruits and counted them as one apple and show
the results, see Table I.
We also consider the rate of miss classiﬁcation that is the
detection of the wrong objects instead of apples, we name it
false positive (FP). Our method false rate is 4.35% where as the
contour based method is 2.17%. It is clear when we apply the
curvature estimation we may ﬁnd some wrong circles whereas
the contour does not depend on such estimation which shows
a slightly better in the false positive case.
TABLE I.
APPLE DETECTION AND ESTIMATION RESULTS OF THE
PROPOSED SCHEME AND COMPARISON WITH THE STATE OF THE ART
CONTOURED BASED METHOD.
#
Ground
truth: # of
apples
Our Method
Contour based
method
TP
FP
TP
FP
1
5
5
0
3
1
2
10
9
0
4
0
3
6
5
0
3
0
4
13
12
1
5
0
5
12
12
1
4
0
46
93.48%
4.35%
41.31%
2.17%
Table I shows that our method is capable of detecting and
counting the apple fruits with more accuracy as compared to
the contour based method.
IV.
CONCLUSION
This paper introduced the concept of circular Hough trans-
form to estimate the curvature to ﬁnd the apple fruit yield
estimation. It is typically preferred technique for circular object
detection. The proposed method apple fruit yield estimation
and counting apples comes to the following conclusions:
1)
We proposed a machine learning free pixel classi-
ﬁcation and curvature analysis algorithm for tightly
overlapped apple fruits count. The method is fast,
robust and can be used with the small unmanned
ground and ariel vehicles in real time.
2)
The algorithm proposed in this study showed robust-
ness in detecting and counting apples from apple tree
images. Since it could deal with the apple recognition
problems such as illumination changes, shaded by
leaves and branches, overlaps with other apples, and
complex cluttered background.
3)
The proposed algorithm made full use of the vision
features including targets color and shape to detect
and count apples on the trees. The algorithm with
strong noise resistance succeeded since the pixel clas-
siﬁcation could ﬁt complex function and circle Hough
transform provided the incomplete shape detection
specialty.
4)
The proposed method had strong generalization ca-
pability. The algorithm could be extended to the
detection of other types of round fruits by re-training
the color identifying model by pixel classiﬁcation.
5)
The proposed approach adapted to the natural con-
ditions and could be used to detect fruits and count
number in tree images, and it could also be used as a
www.ijacsa.thesai.org
572 | P a g e

(IJACSA) International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications,
Vol. 10, No. 2, 2019
core detection algorithm in orchard yield estimation
system to provide guidance for the management of
the orchard.
Although unavoidable problems were analyzed in detecting
and counting apples from apple tree images. In future work,
we plan to address more accurate methods to estimate the
curvature and advanced deep learning methods and comparison
with them.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This research was supported by the Government of Pakistan
under the Prime Minister scholarship.
REFERENCES
[1]
Q. Wang, S. Nuske, M. Bergerman, and S. Singh, “Automated crop yield
estimation for apple orchards,” in Experimental robotics.
Springer,
2013, pp. 745–758.
[2]
A. B. Payne, K. B. Walsh, P. Subedi, and D. Jarvis, “Estimation
of mango crop yield using image analysis–segmentation method,”
Computers and electronics in agriculture, vol. 91, pp. 57–64, 2013.
[3]
R. Zhou, L. Damerow, Y. Sun, and M. M. Blanke, “Using colour
features of cv.‘gala’apple fruits in an orchard in image processing to
predict yield,” Precision Agriculture, vol. 13, no. 5, pp. 568–580, 2012.
[4]
S. Nuske, S. Achar, T. Bates, S. Narasimhan, and S. Singh, “Yield
estimation in vineyards by visual grape detection,” in Intelligent Robots
and Systems (IROS), 2011 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on.
IEEE, 2011, pp. 2352–2358.
[5]
C. Hung, J. Nieto, Z. Taylor, J. Underwood, and S. Sukkarieh, “Orchard
fruit segmentation using multi-spectral feature learning,” in Intelligent
Robots and Systems (IROS), 2013 IEEE/RSJ International Conference
on.
IEEE, 2013, pp. 5314–5320.
[6]
G. Pan, F.-m. Li, and G.-j. Sun, “Digital camera based measurement
of crop cover for wheat yield prediction,” in Geoscience and Remote
Sensing Symposium, 2007. IGARSS 2007. IEEE International.
IEEE,
2007, pp. 797–800.
[7]
Q. Zaman, A. Schumann, D. Percival, and R. Gordon, “Estimation of
wild blueberry fruit yield using digital color photography,” Transactions
of the ASABE, vol. 51, no. 5, pp. 1539–1544, 2008.
[8]
K. C. Swain, Q. U. Zaman, H. P. Jayasuriya, and F. Zhang, “Estimation
of rice yield and protein content using remote sensing images acquired
by radio controlled unmanned helicopter,” in 2008 Providence, Rhode
Island, June 29–July 2, 2008.
American Society of Agricultural and
Biological Engineers, 2008, p. 1.
[9]
M. B. Lak, S. Minaei, J. Amiriparian, and B. Beheshti, “Apple fruits
recognition under natural luminance using machine vision,” Advance
Journal of Food Science and Technology, vol. 2, no. 6, pp. 325–327,
2010.
[10]
J. Moonrinta, S. Chaivivatrakul, M. N. Dailey, and M. Ekpanyapong,
“Fruit detection, tracking, and 3d reconstruction for crop mapping and
yield estimation,” in Control Automation Robotics & Vision (ICARCV),
2010 11th International Conference on.
IEEE, 2010, pp. 1181–1186.
[11]
W. C. Seng and S. H. Mirisaee, “A new method for fruits recognition
system,” in Electrical Engineering and Informatics, 2009. ICEEI’09.
International Conference on, vol. 1.
IEEE, 2009, pp. 130–134.
[12]
D. Unay and B. Gosselin, “Apple defect detection and quality clas-
siﬁcation with mlp-neural networks,” in Proceedings of the ProRISC
Workshop on Circuits, Systems and Signal Processing.
Citeseer, 2002.
[13]
A. L. Tabb, D. L. Peterson, and J. Park, “Segmentation of apple fruit
from video via background modeling,” in 2006 ASAE Annual Meeting.
American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers, 2006, p. 1.
[14]
S. R. Dubey, P. Dixit, N. Singh, and J. P. Gupta, “Infected fruit part
detection using k-means clustering segmentation technique,” Ijimai,
vol. 2, no. 2, pp. 65–72, 2013.
[15]
Y. Xu, K. Imou, Y. Kaizu, and K. Saga, “Two-stage approach for detect-
ing slightly overlapping strawberries using hog descriptor,” Biosystems
engineering, vol. 115, no. 2, pp. 144–153, 2013.
[16]
B. Leibe and B. Schiele, “Analyzing appearance and contour based
methods for object categorization,” in Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, 2003. Proceedings. 2003 IEEE Computer Society Con-
ference on, vol. 2.
IEEE, 2003, pp. II–409.
[17]
A. A. Bade, M. P. Dale, and J. KK, “Quality assessment of biscuits
using computer vision.” ICTACT Journal on Image & Video Processing,
vol. 7, no. 1, 2016.
[18]
R. Linker, O. Cohen, and A. Naor, “Determination of the number
of green apples in rgb images recorded in orchards,” Computers and
Electronics in Agriculture, vol. 81, pp. 45–57, 2012.
[19]
J. Princen, H. Yuen, J. Illingworth, and J. Kittler, “A comparison of
hough transform methods,” in Image Processing and its Applications,
1989., Third International Conference on.
IET, 1989, pp. 73–77.
www.ijacsa.thesai.org
573 | P a g e
