 
Privacy-Preserving Federated Learning in Oil 
Palm Industry for Fresh Fruit Bunch Ripeness 
Grading 
 
Patchanee Laddawong 
1, Yutthapong Pianroj 
2,3, Piyanart Chotikawanid 
2, Teerasak Punvichai 
3,4, 
Saysunee Jumrat 
2,3, and Jirapond Muangprathub 
2,3,* 
1 College of Digital Science, Prince of Songkla University, Hat Yai Campus, Songkhla, Thailand 
2 Faculty of Science and Industrial Technology, Prince of Songkla University,  
Surat Thani Campus, Surat Thani, Thailand 
3 Integrated High-Value Oleochemical Research Center, Prince of Songkla University,  
Surat Thani Campus, Surat Thani, Thailand 
4 Faculty of Innovative Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Prince of Songkla University,  
Surat Thani Campus, Surat Thani, Thailand 
Email: patchanee.l@psu.ac.th (P.L.); yutthapong.p@psu.ac.th (Y.P.); piyanart.ko@psu.ac.th (P.C.); 
teerasak.p@psu.ac.th (T.P.); saysunee.j@psu.ac.th (S.J.); jirapond.m@psu.ac.th (J.M.) 
*Corresponding author 
 
 
 
Abstract—This study proposes a novel privacy-preserving 
federated learning method, Privacy-Preserving Federated 
Learning with Federated Averaging (PP-FedAvg), tailored 
for the oil palm industry to enhance data security while 
predicting ripeness levels and oil yield of fresh fruit bunches 
without sharing sensitive data. The primary contribution of 
this work lies in developing the PP-FedAvg model, which 
combines encryption techniques with federated learning to 
ensure secure and accurate classification, achieving 92.5% 
accuracy across 5209 images of four ripeness levels (raw, 
semi-raw, semi-ripe, ripe). The prediction results are 
integrated into a web application, providing practical tools to 
improve decision-making and operational efficiency in palm 
oil mills. 
 
Keywords—federated learning, privacy-preserving federated 
learning, oil palm, ripeness, grading, oil palm fruit  
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Thailand is the third-largest producer of palm oil in the 
world, accounting for 4% of global production. However, 
the Thai palm oil industry faces significant issues due to 
the overcapacity of crude palm oil mills, which currently 
operate at only 43% [1] of their potential capacity. Over 
the past decade, the number of crude palm oil mills has 
more than doubled, intensifying competition and reducing 
profitability. This situation has led to the closure of some 
mills due to unprofitability. 
Errors in ripeness grading exacerbate this problem by 
directly impacting oil yield and quality. Studies estimate 
that misgraded fruit can reduce oil extraction efficiency by 
10–20%, potentially costing an average mill several tens 
of thousands of dollars annually. With over 150 palm oil 
mills in Thailand, the cumulative economic loss due to 
inaccurate ripeness grading could reach millions of dollars 
each year. To regulate fairness, the Thai government 
mandates that palm oil mills purchase Fresh Fruit Bunches 
(FFB) based on the oil percentage at a fair and reasonable 
price [2]. The oil percentage is closely tied to the ripeness 
level of the fruits in the bunch, determined by fruit color 
and detachment rates [3]. 
In practice, mill staff visually assess the ripeness of 
FFB, but this process is prone to inaccuracies caused by 
limited personnel, time constraints, and subjective 
judgment. These errors can lead to mills purchasing FFB 
at prices higher than the actual oil yield, resulting in 
financial losses and reduced profitability. Furthermore, 
such inefficiencies strain operational capacities and create 
competitive disadvantages. Ensuring accurate ripeness 
grading is therefore critical to the sustainability and 
profitability of the Thai palm oil industry. 
To address this problem, various methods have been 
considered for assessing the ripeness of palm fruits, 
including Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) and 
Federated Averaging (FedAVG). CNN can process and 
classify images with high accuracy without sending data to 
external devices, ensuring high data security. However, it 
requires significant processing resources and slow model 
updates with new data. On the other hand, FedAVG offers 
fast model updates and distributed processing across 
multiple devices, but it has lower data security since 
updated models are sent to a central server, posing a risk of 
data leakage. Additionally, combining data will benefit the 
creation of predictive models, enabling machine learning 
to perform better than processing data from each node 
individually. Thus, this work developed a new method that 
combines the advantages of both approaches, named 
 
Manuscript received November 1, 2024; revised November 22, 2024;
accepted January 7, 2025; published March 20, 2025. 
Journal of Advances in Information Technology, Vol. 16, No. 3, 2025
434
doi: 10.12720/jait.16.3.434-446

 
Privacy-Preserving Federated Learning Average (PP-
FedAvg). This method integrates Federated Learning (FL) 
with privacy preservation, avoiding the need to send raw 
data to a central server by updating the model and sending 
only partial representative data [4, 5], ensuring high data 
security and fast model updates.   
FL based on FedAVG has gained significant attention in 
various industries due to its ability to enable collaborative 
model training while safeguarding sensitive data. In 
healthcare, FL has been employed to train models on 
patient data across multiple hospitals without sharing raw 
medical records, ensuring data privacy while improving 
diagnostic accuracy. For instance, FL has been used for 
predicting diseases such as diabetes and cancer, where 
preserving patient confidentiality is critical. Similarly, in 
the finance sector, FL is applied to detect fraudulent 
transactions across multiple banks, combining distributed 
data insights to enhance model performance without 
exposing sensitive customer information. In the energy 
industry, FL has been utilized for smart grid optimization, 
where data from distributed energy resources is aggregated 
securely to improve energy distribution efficiency. These 
applications demonstrate FL’s adaptability in scenarios 
that require high levels of data security and collaboration. 
By drawing on the success of FL in these industries, this 
study extends its application to the oil palm industry, 
addressing the unique challenges of privacy and predictive 
accuracy in ripeness grading. 
FL offers a promising solution by enabling collaborative 
model training without direct data exchange. Despite its 
advantages, conventional FL approaches such as FedAvg 
are vulnerable to privacy breaches during model updates. 
This study addresses this gap by introducing PP-FedAvg, 
a privacy-preserving federated learning model that 
combines encryption techniques with FL to enhance data 
security while maintaining high predictive accuracy in 
ripeness grading and oil yield prediction. 
This study developed a centralized machine learning 
web application capable of operating across various 
communication devices. The proposed PP-FedAvg 
method was built to assess the ripeness and rawness of 
oil palm fruit images. This method utilizes federated 
learning with a privacy-preserving technique, ensuring data 
security and supporting the oil palm industry by developing 
predictive models without direct data exchange. The 
system accurately assesses palm bunch ripeness and 
displays results on a web application dashboard. This 
enhances ease of use, reduces errors in purchasing palm 
bunches, and ultimately increases the profitability of palm 
oil factories. 
II. LITERATURE REVIEW 
CNNs have been employed in various research contexts. 
For example, Chen et al. [6] studied crack detection on 
underwater metal surfaces in nuclear inspection videos, 
using CNNs trained on a dataset of patches containing both 
cracks and non-cracks, calculating scores for each patch 
independently. Performance was further enhanced by 
implementing a data fusion model that aggregates data 
from multiple video frames using spatial registration and 
Naive Bayes decision-making. Choi et al. [7] utilized 
CNNs to detect crack damage in structural images, 
classifying images into broken and unbroken categories. 
The results demonstrated the feasibility of replacing 
traditional IPA with a CNN model. Shi et al. [8] proposed 
a system for Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUVs) to 
detect pipe damage in image streams, achieving good 
results even with a limited number of damaged samples, 
by training discriminators using a CNN on random noise. 
Yang et al. [9] presented an Online Sequential Classifier 
and Transfer Learning (OSC-TL) method for online 
training and classification of Mura defects in flat panel 
displays. The combination of CNN feature extraction as a 
feature extractor and Online Sequential Extreme Learning 
Machine 
(OS-ELM) 
classification 
enables 
high 
classification accuracy and fast training and inference for 
Mura fault classification. Tang et al. [10] proposed a 
bilinear CNN model, a new spatial attention mechanism 
that combines the spatial attention mechanism and two-line 
gathering to enhance the performance power of CNN in 
detecting defects based on X-ray images. The pro- posed 
model demonstrates improved performance in X-ray 
testing through multiple experiments and detailed analysis 
of the experimental results. Ren et al. [11] present a 
general DL-based ASI method that includes feature 
transfer from a pretrained DL network and the conjugation 
of a patch-based classifier over the input image using a 
CNN or Decaf for analysis involving CNN images.  
Dong et al. [12] use a Fully Convolutional Network (FCN) 
called U-Net, which is a CNN architecture, as the main 
model 
for 
identifying 
pixels 
corresponding 
to 
abnormalities in the imaged region.  It uses a set of sample 
images with common defects and the corresponding binary 
label images. Balzategui et al. [13] used a CNN to process 
cell images. The approaches require multiple runs to 
process a single image and obtain a segmentation map 
which be obtained in one step. This eliminates the need to 
perform multiple network operations. Rahman et al. [14] 
modified the U-net architecture, which is a CNN, to 
perform 
defect 
detection 
in 
photovoltaic 
Electroluminescence (EL) images. The modified U-net 
makes use of multiple attention networks, which consist of 
channel attention and spatial attention, to extract important 
features and suppress background noise. Han et al. [15] 
used CNN for defect segmentation in polycrystal silicon 
wafers, including feature extraction, event analysis, video 
understanding, and image segmentation. Fine-tuned 
specifically for the job. The contents have been 
summarized as shown in Table I. 
From the previous research, CNNs have been widely 
used for image classification tasks, including agricultural 
applications such as fruit ripeness detection. While CNNs 
have demonstrated high accuracy in various studies, their 
application in the oil palm industry presents unique 
challenges that require further exploration. For example, 
oil palm fruits exhibit significant variability in size, shape, 
and color due to genetic differences, environmental 
factors, and ripeness levels. This variability makes it 
difficult for CNNs to generalize effectively across 
datasets. Images captured in natural settings are affected 
Journal of Advances in Information Technology, Vol. 16, No. 3, 2025
435

 
by lighting variations, shadows, and background noise, 
which can degrade the performance of CNN models. 
Moreover, the manual collection and labeling of large 
datasets for training CNN models are time-consuming and 
prone to errors. Mislabeling or insufficient representation 
of ripeness levels can lead to model biases and reduced 
accuracy. CNNs also require substantial computational 
resources for training and deployment. Theses limitations 
are particularly relevant for oil palm mills operating in 
rural areas with constrained access to high-performance 
computing infrastructure. While CNNs process images 
locally, the centralized collection of data for model 
training raises privacy concerns, particularly for industrial 
applications where competitive data must remain 
confidential. To address these limitations, this study 
leverages the strengths of CNNs while incorporating 
Federated Learning (FL) to mitigate issues such as data 
centralization and privacy risks. The proposed PP-FedAvg 
model 
combines 
CNN 
capabilities 
with 
FL’s  
privacy-preserving techniques, ensuring robust and secure 
predictions for the oil palm industry. 
TABLE I. GAP ANALYSIS OF CNN-BASED CLASSIFIERS AND SEGMENTATION NETWORKS IN DEFECT DETECTION 
Title 
Technique 
Strength 
Gap analysis 
Deep learning implemented 
structural detection on digital 
images [7] 
-Vision-based methods using 
image processing algorithms 
(IPAs) for damage identification 
- Integration of deep learning 
(DL) models for image 
classification and segmentation 
- Utilization of convolutional 
neural networks (CNNs) for 
crack damage detection 
- Utilizes deep learning models for 
structural defect detection in digital 
images, offering a more advanced 
approach than traditional methods. 
-Introduces a deep learning model 
for image classification and 
segmentation, showcasing faster, 
more robust, flexible, and intuitive 
results compared to existing 
methods. 
- Addresses the limitations of 
current vision-based methods by 
proposing advanced computer 
vision techniques using deep 
learning. 
- A new method that is data privacy 
preserving combines a federated 
learning averaging and a convolutional 
neural network. (PP-FedAvg) 
- Data privacy with no raw data 
exchange and distributed operations 
across devices. 
NB-CNN: Deep Learning-Based 
Crack Detection 
Using Convolutional Neural 
Network and Na¨ıve Bayes Data 
Fusion [6] 
- Convolutional neural network 
(CNN) and a Na¨ıve Bayes data 
fusion scheme (NB-CNN) 
- Used Support Vector Machine 
(SVM) and Random Forest for 
classification tasks. 
- Recursive Feature Elimination 
(RFE) are utilized to enhance 
model performance 
- Cross-validation is applied to 
evaluate the models and ensure 
their generalizability 
- It achieves higher hit rate than 
other approaches with fast 
operation speed. 
- Can even detect tiny cracks with 
low contrast and variant brightness 
that are hardly visible. 
- A new method that is data privacy 
preserving combines a federated 
learning averaging and a convolutional 
neural network. (PP-FedAvg) 
- Data privacy with no raw data 
exchange and distributed operations 
across devices. 
Automated underwater pipeline 
damage detection using neural 
nets [8] 
- Transfer learning from 
pretrained convolutional neural 
networks (CNN) 
- Image pre-processing 
techniques from MobileNet 
- This approach outperforms using 
VGG16. 
- The classifier that used 
MobileNet learned more relevant 
image features than the one one 
that used VGG16. 
- A new method that is data privacy 
preserving combines a federated 
learning averaging and a convolutional 
neural network. (PP-FedAvg) 
- Data privacy with no raw data 
exchange and distributed operations 
across devices. 
Transfer-learning-based online 
Mura defect classification [9] 
- OSC-TL is a new method that 
combines a deep convolutional 
feature extractor and a sequential 
extreme learning machine 
classifier. 
- The computational resources and 
time consumed by OSC-TL are 
well below those of other common 
methods 
- The proposed OSC-TL can 
achieve high classification 
accuracy for six kinds of Mura 
defects and high speed during 
training and inferencing. 
- The approach is suitable for real-
time applications. 
- A new method that is data privacy 
preserving combines a federated 
learning averaging and a convolutional 
neural network. (PP-FedAvg) 
- Data privacy with no raw data 
exchange and distributed operations 
across devices. 
Nondestructive defect detection 
in castings by using spatial 
attention bilinear convolutional 
neural network [10] 
- The spatial attention model and 
bilinear pooling were integrated 
into a CNN. (SA-BCNN) 
- Could be trained in an end-to-end 
manner. 
- Extract subtle visual difference 
- Better detection performance 
compared to the original 
- A new method that is data privacy 
preserving combines a federated 
learning averaging and a convolutional 
neural network. (PP-FedAvg) 
- Data privacy with no raw data 
exchange and distributed operations 
across devices. 
Outlier detection Segmentation 
heterogeneity (Semantic 
Networks) [11–17] 
- Fully Convolutional Networks, 
(FCNs); U-Net 
- Quick training and assessment; 
detect and isolate the area with 
defects. 
- Need for detailed human annotation at 
the pixel level; involves tedious and 
labor-intensive tasks. 
Journal of Advances in Information Technology, Vol. 16, No. 3, 2025
436

 
To showcase prior studies concerning data security in 
PP- FedAvg, this work outlines the literature review in 
Table I. Lyu et al. [18] conducted a review of privacy 
issues associated with FL but did not provide or discuss 
privacy-preserving mechanisms that are specifically 
tailored for ensuring privacy protection within the 
context of FL. Li et al. [19] presented a brief summary 
of methods for maintaining privacy in FL, with a focus on 
strategies involving homomorphic encryption, secure 
multiparty 
computing, 
and 
differential 
privacy.  
Kaissis et al. [20] conducted an in-depth investigation into 
the utilization of FL alongside multiple privacy-preserving 
techniques within the domain of medical imaging. Their 
research delved into the intersection of FL methodologies 
and privacy-preserving strategies, particularly in the context 
of analyzing and safeguarding medical image data.  
Lim et al. [21] conducted an extensive survey that delved 
into the intricacies of FL as applied in mobile edge 
networks. Their analysis covered a range of critical factors 
including communication costs, resource allocation 
dynamics, as well as privacy and security considerations 
within this context. Similarly, Li et al. [22] conducted a 
detailed survey focusing on FL’s challenges and 
opportunities across different domains. They explored 
topics such as the high costs associated with 
communication in FL setups, the complexities arising from 
system and statistical heterogeneity, and the paramount 
importance of addressing privacy concerns in FL 
frameworks. Kairouz et al. [23] conducted a survey on FL, 
focusing on aspects such as efficiency, effectiveness, 
privacy, robustness, and fairness considerations. However, 
their analysis of privacy concerns primarily centered on 
external malicious actors and adversarial servers. Overall, 
the existing surveys lacked a comprehensive assessment of 
the privacy preserving elements within FL frameworks. 
Yang et al. [24] presented an overview of FL, discussing 
distributed machine learning, privacy considerations, and 
categorization of FL architecture, FL design, and 
applications of FL. Their focus was particularly on 
categorizing FL systems and conducting security analyses 
within this framework. 
Based on the information provided earlier, as 
summarized in Table II, one can note the rapid evolution 
of FL alongside the limitations identified in current related 
surveys. This necessitates a thorough investigation. The 
objective of this survey is to confirm the latest findings, 
focus on existing gaps, and propose potential future 
research directions. In this work, the encryption 
techniques, anonymization methods, training steps, 
weights, and gradient descent will be explored, 
culminating in the development of the final model. 
FL has emerged as a promising approach to 
collaborative model training without the need to share raw 
data, making it particularly suitable for privacy-sensitive 
applications. However, existing FL models such as 
FedAvg exhibit several shortcomings in addressing 
privacy concerns, particularly in industrial contexts. In 
traditional FL models, updated parameters from individual 
devices are sent to a central server. Although raw data is 
not shared, these updates can still be exploited through 
inference attacks to reconstruct sensitive information from 
individual datasets. The most FL implementations lack 
robust encryption or obfuscation mechanisms during data 
aggregation. This exposes the aggregated data to potential 
breaches if the central server is compromised. 
Centralized aggregation creates a single point of failure, 
making it an attractive target for attackers. Compromising 
the central server could lead to the exposure of all model 
updates, undermining the privacy of all participating 
nodes. The existing FL models do not account for 
variations in the quality and quantity of data contributed 
by different nodes. This imbalance can make certain nodes 
more susceptible to inference attacks, especially if they 
provide unique or identifiable patterns. FL models have 
predominantly been tested in domains like healthcare and 
finance, where privacy concerns are critical, but their 
implementation in industrial applications, such as 
agriculture, has been limited. These applications often 
involve competitive data that must remain confidential, 
which is inadequately addressed by existing FL models. 
The PP-FedAvg model overcomes these challenges by 
integrating privacy-preserving techniques with federated 
learning. PP-FedAvg employs encryption mechanisms to 
ensure that model updates remain secure during 
aggregation, minimizing the risk of inference attacks. The 
model avoids relying on a single centralized server, 
reducing the risk of a single point of failure. Instead of 
sharing full parameter updates, PP-FedAvg transmits only 
partial, representative data, further enhancing privacy. 
PP-FedAvg is specifically designed to address the unique 
requirements of the oil palm industry, balancing privacy 
concerns with high predictive accuracy for ripeness 
grading. By addressing these shortcomings, PP-FedAvg 
represents 
a 
significant 
advancement 
in  
privacy-preserving FL for industrial applications. 
TABLE II. OVERVIEW OF RELEVANT FL THAT PROTECTS PRIVACY 
Techniques to Safeguard Privacy Security Measures 
Instances of Privacy Breach 
References 
Cryptographic 
Techniques 
Perturbative 
Techniques 
Anonymization 
Techniques 
Internal/External 
Attackers 
Training/ 
Inference Phase 
Weight/Gradient/ 
The Final Model 
Inference 
Attacks 
√ 
√ 
 
√ 
√ 
 
√ 
Lyu et al. [18] 
√ 
√ 
√ 
 
 
 
√ 
Li et al. [19] 
√ 
√ 
 
 
 
 
√ 
Kaissis et al. [20] 
√ 
√ 
 
 
 
 
 
Lim et al. [21] 
√ 
√ 
 
 
 
√ 
 
Li et al. [22] 
√ 
√ 
 
√ 
 
 
 
Kairouz et al. [23] 
√ 
√ 
 
 
 
 
√ 
Yang et al. [24] 
√ 
 
√ 
 
√ 
√ 
 
Proposed method 
Journal of Advances in Information Technology, Vol. 16, No. 3, 2025
437

 
Despite advancements in machine learning and FL, 
several critical gaps remain in their application to  
privacy-preserving agricultural systems, particularly for 
ripeness grading in the oil palm industry. Existing FL 
models like FedAvg are vulnerable to inference attacks 
and centralized aggregation risks due to insufficient 
encryption mechanisms, compromising data privacy. 
Scalability issues also arise, as traditional FL models 
struggle with heterogeneous datasets, limiting their 
effectiveness 
in 
diverse, 
real-world 
environments. 
Furthermore, FL applications in agriculture, especially for 
ripeness grading, are underexplored, often failing to 
address specific industry needs such as data confidentiality 
and accurate predictions under varying environmental 
conditions. Additionally, CNN-based solutions, while 
accurate, demand high computational resources, making 
them impractical for rural industries with limited 
infrastructure. Many prior methods focus either on 
improving accuracy or enhancing privacy, but rarely 
achieve a balance between the two—an essential 
requirement for industrial applications. The proposed PP-
FedAvg model bridges these gaps by integrating 
encryption techniques with FL to enhance privacy, 
ensuring scalability through support for heterogeneous 
datasets, and tailoring its design for agricultural 
applications. It balances privacy and accuracy while 
maintaining 
resource 
efficiency, 
providing 
a 
comprehensive solution to the challenges faced by the oil 
palm industry. 
III. MATERIALS AND METHODS 
A. The Proposed Framework 
In this research, we propose a system that utilizes FL 
principles to classify the ripeness levels of oil palm fruit 
bunches. Information is distributed across various 
factories through a system known as FL-OPI, which serves 
as a communication framework for transferring models 
between nodes within the system, as illustrated in Fig. 1. 
 
 
Fig. 1. The proposed framework for federated transfer learning. 
Fig. 1 provides a comprehensive overview of the system, 
beginning with the data collection of palm oil fruit images 
from mill yards. The image data are preprocessed by 
resizing the images to 224×224 pixels and classifying them 
based on the color levels of the palm oil fruit bunches, as 
determined by experts. The classified images are then 
processed using a CNN to segment them according to 
ripeness levels, with a focus on the color of the palm fruit 
as a key factor indicating the ripeness of the bunches in data 
preparation step. The segmented data are uploaded to a 
Journal of Advances in Information Technology, Vol. 16, No. 3, 2025
438

 
server for model development with model planning and 
model building in the next step. 
During the model planning phase, the characteristics of 
models created using CNN, FedAvg, and the proposed 
model will be compared. In centralized training with CNN, 
image data are sent to the server for model training. In 
contrast, Fe dAvg, a technique in FL, does not send image 
data back to the server but only sends model weights 
(parameters) from the user’s device. The strengths of both 
methods are combined to develop a new model called 
PP-FedAvg. In this work, the model training uses the 
FedAvg technique, which sends model weights and data 
through the Socket.io and WebRTC protocols for real-time 
communication to the server to update the central model. In 
this process, the model weights obtained from FedAvg, 
which preserve client data privacy, are selected and sent to 
the server. The server aggregates the model weights 
from multiple clients and averages them to create a new, 
more efficient central model. The updated model is then 
decrypted and deployed in the web application. Users can 
access the application via authentication using an access 
token and a secure HTTPS connection. The model data 
sent from each factory’s device are transmitted back to the 
server for further training and updates. The connection 
through API, including access tokens and HTTPS, is 
encrypted to ensure the security and confidentiality of 
users’ personal information. After several rounds of 
training and comparison of all models, the model with the 
best performance will be used in the web application. 
B. Data Description 
In this study, a dataset of 5,209 images of oil palm 
bunches from a factory in Surat Thani province, Thailand, 
was carefully compiled. This dataset is utilized for both 
model training and testing, with all 5,209 images 
designated for training and 753 images for testing. The 
dataset comprises 2,571 images of single bunches and 
2,638 images of multiple bunches, categorized into four 
ripeness levels: raw, semi-raw, semi-ripe, and ripe. As 
detailed in Table III, the dataset includes four oil palm 
species: Searad ‘Millennium’ (Deli X Lame), Spring Black 
(Deli Nigerian Black), Surat Thani 2 (Deli X Lame), and 
Surat Thani 7 (Deli X Tanzania). 
The dataset used in this study was divided into a training 
set (85%) and a test set (15%) to ensure a robust evaluation 
of the model’s performance. This split ratio used in this 
study is a common practice in machine learning to ensure 
that the training set is sufficiently large for model training 
while still maintaining a robust test set for evaluation. This 
split ratio has been shown to offer a balanced approach for 
training 
deep 
learning 
models 
with 
adequate 
generalization performance. To achieve representative 
performance across all ripeness levels and varying 
environmental conditions, a stratified sampling approach 
was employed. This method preserved the proportion of 
each ripeness category (raw, semi-raw, semi-ripe, and 
ripe) within both the training and test sets. By maintaining 
this balance, the model was trained and tested on a dataset 
that accurately reflected the real-world distribution of 
ripeness levels.  
Additionally, the dataset contained images captured 
under diverse environmental conditions, including varying 
lighting (natural sunlight, shaded areas, artificial lighting) 
and camera settings (angles, resolutions). These variations 
were equally distributed across the training and test sets to 
ensure that the model’s performance was evaluated under 
conditions representative of actual deployment scenarios. 
This stratified and balanced split allowed the model to 
generalize effectively across all ripeness categories and 
environmental settings, demonstrating its robustness in 
practical applications. 
TABLE III. DATASET OF OIL PALM FRUIT 
Feature of fruit color 
Level of ripness 
Amount 
black 
light yellow-orange 
orange-red 
raw 
1943 
semi-raw 
1107 
semi-ripe 
1062 
dark brown 
ripe 
1097 
 
To ensure consistency and improve model performance, 
several preprocessing steps were applied to standardize the 
dataset. Images were resized to a uniform resolution of  
224×224 pixels to meet the input requirements of the 
CNN. Contrast enhancement techniques were employed to 
mitigate the effects of poor lighting, while image 
normalization was performed to scale pixel values between 
0 and 1, reducing the impact of varying intensities. 
Augmentation techniques, such as rotation, flipping, and 
zooming, were also used to increase dataset diversity and 
improve the model’s robustness against overfitting. 
These preprocessing steps ensured that the dataset was 
standardized while preserving the inherent variability 
required for a realistic and robust training process. This 
approach enabled the proposed PP-FedAvg model to 
effectively learn features across a wide range of ripeness 
levels and environmental conditions. 
C. The Implementation 
This section aims to achieve application model in oil 
palm industry for fresh fruit bunch ripeness grading. It is 
divided into 2 parts, i.e., To find the best model of 
classification based on FL and to deploy the model. The 
first part is designed to compare the traditional models 
including CNN that CNN uses centralized training and has 
the ability to capture features from image data well. The 
model trained with CNN has high accuracy in image 
classification tasks but the resulting image data are sent to 
the server. This problem is generally solved by use of 
FedAvg method that provides data privacy without 
sending the raw data back to central server. It only sends 
the model weights (or model parameters) obtained from 
the user’s device to the server. However, the gap is that 
this method still lacks data and model security during 
transmission. Thus, this work designs and implements 
enhanced data preservation and privacy. 
To find the best model suitable for classifying the fresh 
fruit bunch ripeness in oil palm industry, the three model 
types CNN, FedAvg, and our work, will be compared. In 
the comparison, we will consider several factors: data 
privacy in data transmission, speed of data processing, 
Journal of Advances in Information Technology, Vol. 16, No. 3, 2025
439

 
model quality, and the accuracy in classifying the ripeness 
levels of the purchased palm fruit bunches. 
The accuracy will be assessed by examining the Loss 
value, which represents the error between predicted and 
true values, the ROC (Receiver Operating Characteristic) 
curve, which compares true and misclassified ratios, and 
AUROC (Area Under the ROC Curve), which summarizes 
the ROC curve into a single numerical value. 
This work has combined the strengths of two methods, 
namely the advantages of CNN in image classification 
accuracy with the benefits of FedAvg in privacy 
preservation, resulting in a model that is not only highly 
accurate but also secure and effectively maintains data 
privacy. This is new model is called PP-FedAvg, and it 
selects FedAvg weights or model parameters that preserve 
privacy and sends them to the server. The PP-FedAvg 
model enhances the standard Federated Learning 
(FedAvg) algorithm by integrating privacy-preserving 
mechanisms to secure data during model updates. The 
process begins with the creation of an initial model, where 
parameters are trained and initialized for distribution to 
participating devices (clients). Each client then updates the 
model locally using its own data, ensuring that raw data 
never leaves the device. To safeguard the data, the updated 
model parameters are encrypted before being transmitted 
to the central server, preventing unauthorized access 
during communication. At the central server, the encrypted 
updates are collected, decrypted, and aggregated to 
produce an improved global model by averaging the 
contributions from all clients. This updated global model 
is then redistributed to the clients for further local training, 
and the cycle repeats until the desired model performance 
is achieved. By preventing raw data sharing and 
maintaining high model accuracy, PP-FedAvg offers a 
robust and privacy-preserving solution suitable for 
sensitive applications like ripeness grading in the oil palm 
industry. These FL processes are detailed in FedAVG, as 
shown in Algorithm 1. 
 
Algorithm 1: FederatedAveraging (FedAvg) 
1) Initialize w0 
2) for each round t = 0, 1, . . . do 
3) 
𝑚𝑚←max(⌊𝐶𝐶∙𝐾𝐾⌋,1) 
4) 
St = random set of m clients 
5) 
for each client k ∈ St in parallel do 
6) 
⌊𝑤𝑤𝑡𝑡+1
𝑘𝑘
= 𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶(𝑘𝑘, 𝑤𝑤𝑡𝑡) 
7) 𝑤𝑤𝑡𝑡+1 = ∑
𝑛𝑛𝑘𝑘
𝑛𝑛𝜎𝜎
𝑘𝑘𝑘𝑘𝑠𝑠𝑡𝑡
𝑤𝑤𝑡𝑡+1
𝑘𝑘
, 𝑤𝑤ℎ𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒 𝑛𝑛𝜎𝜎= ∑
𝑛𝑛𝑘𝑘
𝑘𝑘∈𝑠𝑠𝑡𝑡
 
 
The operation of Algorithm 1 can be explained as 
follows: 
(1) The collected dataset of oil palm fruit images is 
prepared for training the model, and the initial 
model parameters, denoted as w0, are set for 
preliminary training. 
(2) The process begins with the first round of training, 
indexed as t = 0, and continues through successive 
rounds until the training is complete. 
(3) The model is trained using a neural network 
structure and the oil palm fruit image dataset to 
calculate the number of clients (i.e., web 
applications connected to each factory) that will 
participate in the training. The parameter m is 
determined based on the calculation as in Eq. (1). 
𝑚𝑚←max(⌊𝐶𝐶∙𝐾𝐾⌋,1) 
 
(1) 
where C represents the fraction of clients expected to 
participate, and K is the total number of clients. If m is 
calculated to be less than 1, it is set to 1. 
(4) A set of m clients (web applications) is 
randomly selected from the total pool, and this 
set is stored in the variable St for the current 
training round. 
(5) For each client k in the set St, perform local 
updates in parallel. 
(6) Each client k performs a local update of the 
model, resulting in an updated model 𝑤𝑤𝑡𝑡+1
𝑘𝑘. This 
update is performed using a function called 
ClientUpdate, which depends on the client’s local 
data and the current global model wt. 
(7) For each round t, the current global model wt is 
distributed to each client 𝑘𝑘𝑘𝑘𝑠𝑠𝑡𝑡 . Each client 
then performs a local update, resulting in 
updated models 𝑤𝑤𝑡𝑡+1
𝑘𝑘, using  a function called 
ClientUpdate that takes into account the client’s 
local data and the current global model. These 
locally updated models are aggregated to compute 
the new global model wt+1 using a weighted average 
based on the amount of data nk contributed by each 
client k. The new global model is calculated as in 
Eq. (2). 
𝑤𝑤𝑡𝑡+1 =
1
𝑛𝑛𝜎𝜎∑
𝑛𝑛𝑘𝑘
𝑘𝑘𝑘𝑘𝑠𝑠𝑡𝑡
𝑤𝑤𝑡𝑡+1
𝑘𝑘  
(2) 
where nσ = ∑
𝑛𝑛𝑘𝑘
𝑘𝑘∈𝑠𝑠𝑡𝑡
 represents the total weight across all 
clients in St. The updated global model wt+1 is then 
uploaded to the central system for use in the next training 
round. This process is repeated for subsequent rounds, 
with each iteration updating and aggregating the model 
parameters to progressively improve the global model’s 
accuracy while ensuring that client data privacy is 
preserved. 
In this paper, we introduce a privacy-preserving 
extension to the original FedAvg algorithm. As detailed in 
Algorithm 2, this 
enhanced 
version 
incorporates  
privacy-preserving measures into the model updating 
process. The original Fe dAvg utilizes the ClientUpdate(), 
where each client locally updates its model using its own 
data. In contrast, the enhanced approach integrates these 
updates within the new PrivacyPreservingClientUpdate(). 
This function introduces additional privacy-preserving 
steps prior to the model update, thus ensuring that client 
data remains confidential throughout the training process 
as follows: 
(1) For each client k in the set St, the loop executes in 
parallel, as indicated in line 9. Here, St represents 
the subset of clients selected at round t. The model 
update for each client is performed using the 
PrivacyPreservingClientUpdate(), which includes 
privacy-preserving steps in addition to updating the 
Journal of Advances in Information Technology, Vol. 16, No. 3, 2025
440

 
model wt locally. This process occurs within the 
loop described in line 10. 
(2) Before any local data local_data[k] for client 
k are sent to the server, they are first encrypted 
using the EncryptData(), as described in line 11. 
This ensures that client data local_data[k] remain 
confidential during trans- mission to the server. 
This step enhances the security and privacy of the 
model training process. 
(3) The encrypted data from client k are transmitted to 
the central server using the SendDataToServer(), 
as detailed in line 12. The communication is 
secured 
using 
HTTPS (Hypertext 
Transfer 
Protocol Secure), and the API access is 
authenticated using an access token. This ensures 
that only authorized clients can transmit data. This 
step 
improves client-server 
communication 
security, which was not present in the original 
FedAvg. 
(4) Upon receiving the encrypted data from client k, 
the 
server 
decrypts 
the 
data 
using 
the 
DecryptData(), as specified in line 13. The 
decryption key is generated during the encryption 
step, ensuring that only authorized clients can 
access the data. This step allows the client k to 
securely retrieve the processed data. 
(5) After decrypting the data, the model for client k, 
wk,t+1, is updated using the UpdateModel() with the 
decrypted data, as described in line 14. The 
updated model wk,t+1, shown in line 15, is then 
returned to the server as the new local model for 
client k, as indicated in line 16. This step mirrors 
the model update in the original FedAvg but 
includes the additional privacy-preserving steps. 
 
Algorithm 2: Privacy-Preserving Federated Averaging 
(PP-FedAvg) 
1) Initialize w0 
2) Initialize local_data for each client k 
3) for each round t = 0, 1, . . . do 
4)     𝑚𝑚←max(⌊𝐶𝐶∙𝐾𝐾⌋,1) 
5)     St = random set of m clients 
6)     for each client k ∈ St in parallel do 
7)        ⌊𝑤𝑤𝑡𝑡+1
𝑘𝑘
= 𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶(𝑘𝑘, 𝑤𝑤𝑡𝑡) 
8)     Endfor 
9)     for each client k ∈ St in parallel do 
10)       function PrivacyPreservingClientUpdate(k, wt):    
11)              encrypted_data = 
EncryptData(local_data[k]) 
12)               processed_data = 
SendDataToServer(encrypted_data) 
13)              decrypted_data = 
DecryptData(processed_data) 
14)              updated_model = UpdateModel (wt, 
decrypted_data) 
15)            ⌊𝑤𝑤𝑡𝑡+1
𝑘𝑘
= UpdateModel(wt, 
decrypted_data) 
16)               return updated_model 
17)       Endfunction 
18)   Endfor 
19)    𝑤𝑤𝑡𝑡+1 = ∑
𝑛𝑛𝑘𝑘
𝑛𝑛𝜎𝜎
𝑘𝑘𝑘𝑘𝑠𝑠𝑡𝑡
𝑤𝑤𝑡𝑡+1
𝑘𝑘
, 𝑤𝑤ℎ𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒 𝑛𝑛𝜎𝜎= ∑
𝑛𝑛𝑘𝑘
𝑘𝑘∈𝑠𝑠𝑡𝑡
 
20) Endfor 
To address the need for a pseudocode snippet, the 
encryption and decryption process in PP-FedAvg has been 
explicitly detailed to complement Algorithm 3. During the 
federated learning workflow, model updates are encrypted 
at the client side using a predefined encryption key before 
being transmitted to the central server. The server collects 
these encrypted updates, decrypts them using the same 
key, and aggregates the decrypted updates to form the 
updated global model. This updated model is then 
redistributed to the clients for further training. By 
incorporating this encryption and decryption mechanism, 
PP-FedAvg ensures the secure transmission of model 
parameters while maintaining the privacy of sensitive data 
throughout 
the 
federated 
learning 
process. 
The 
pseudocode simplifies the understanding of this critical 
step and aligns with the overall workflow of the proposed 
algorithm. 
 
Algorithm 3: Encryption and Decryption in PP-FedAvg 
Input: Model parameters (W), encryption key (K) 
Output: Encrypted model parameters (W_encrypted), 
aggregated model (W_global) 
Client Side: 
1. Encrypt model updates: 
   W_encrypted = Encrypt(W, K) 
2. Send W_encrypted to the server. 
Server Side: 
3. Collect encrypted updates from all clients: 
   W_encrypted_list = [W1_encrypted, W2_encrypted, ..., 
Wn_encrypted] 
4. Decrypt updates: 
   W_decrypted_list = [Decrypt(W1_encrypted, K), 
Decrypt(W2_encrypted, K), ..., Decrypt(Wn_encrypted, K)] 
5. Aggregate decrypted updates: 
   W_global = Aggregate(W_decrypted_list) 
6. Send updated global model (W_global) to all clients. 
Repeat the process until model convergence. 
 
 
Fig. 2. Use case diagram for the web application part. 
To deploy the model described above, the real-world 
application of the model through a web-based application 
will be designed and implemented. This implementation is 
designed for two main user groups: administrators and 
general users, as depicted in the use case diagram in  
Fig. 2. General users can select images of oil palm fruit 
bunches to assess their ripeness via the dashboard, as 
Journal of Advances in Information Technology, Vol. 16, No. 3, 2025
441

 
shown in Fig. 3. The dashboard displays the percentage of 
ripeness at different levels, the time taken for the 
assessment, as shown in Fig. 4, and a feature for 
calculating the palm oil price based on the market’s 
reference price. This calculation considers the actual 
weight of palm oil sold and the ripeness level from the 
assessment. Additionally, users can view their usage 
history. 
 
 
Fig. 3. Workflow on the application web page.  
 
Fig. 4. Image processing time. 
IV. RESULT AND DISCUSSION 
To achieve the best model, the results of the comparison 
among CNN, FedAvg, and our approach are summarized 
in Table IV. Next, the best model was selected to be 
implemented and deployed in a web application. 
TABLE IV. COMPARISON OF CNN, FEDAVG, AND FEDAVG + PRIVACY-
PRESERVING 
Characteristics 
CNN 
FedAvg 
PP-FedAvg 
Security (Data Privacy) 
Low 
Medium 
High 
Speed (mins) 
5.07 
8.00 
8.51 
Model Quality 
Good 
Good 
Good 
-Accuracy 
0.8658 
0.9870 
0.9790 
-Loss 
0.0625 
0.0526 
0.0589 
-ROC 
1.0 
0.8 
0.9 
-AUROC 
1.0 
0.9 
0.9 
 
Table IV visually represents the performance metrics, 
including Accuracy, Loss, ROC, and AUROC, for 
different methods—CNN, FedAvg, and PP-FedAvg, as 
illustrated in Fig. 5.  
From Fig. 5, the performance comparison across 
methods—CNN, FedAvg, and PP-FedAvg—highlights 
the strengths and trade-offs of each approach in terms of 
accuracy, loss, ROC, and AUROC. FedAvg achieves the 
highest accuracy (98.7%) and lowest loss (0.0526), 
demonstrating strong predictive reliability and overall 
efficiency in model training. PP-FedAvg closely follows 
with an accuracy of 97.9% and a loss of 0.0589, 
showcasing its capability to maintain high performance 
while integrating privacy-preserving features. In contrast, 
CNN achieves a lower accuracy of 86.6% and a higher loss 
of 0.0625, suggesting that it may struggle more in reducing 
prediction errors compared to the federated approaches. 
 
 
Fig. 5. The performance comparison for each method. 
When considering ROC and AUROC, CNN achieves a 
perfect ROC score of 1.0 and an AUROC of 1.0, reflecting 
its excellent ability to distinguish between classes.  
PP-FedAvg maintains strong classification performance 
with an ROC of 0.9 and AUROC of 0.9, highlighting its 
effectiveness in balancing privacy and predictive 
accuracy. Meanwhile, FedAvg shows slightly reduced 
performance in class distinction with an ROC of 0.8, 
though it still maintains a competitive AUROC of 0.9. 
To consider speed of model training, the slightly longer 
training time for PP-FedAvg compared to FedAvg is 
primarily attributed to the additional computational 
overhead introduced by its privacy-preserving measures. 
These measures, such as encrypting model updates and 
performing secure aggregation, require extra processing at 
both the client and server levels. While FedAvg transmits 
model updates without encryption, making it faster, this 
approach compromises data security. In contrast,  
PP-FedAvg ensures robust privacy by encrypting updates, 
which adds marginal computational time. This trade-off, 
however, is not significant when considering the overall 
benefits for industry adoption. The added training time is 
negligible compared to the critical need for protecting 
sensitive data in privacy-sensitive applications such as 
ripeness grading in the oil palm industry. Industries 
prioritize data confidentiality and compliance with privacy 
regulations, which makes PP-FedAvg’s slightly longer 
training time an acceptable compromise. Furthermore, the 
scalability of PP-FedAvg ensures that the additional 
overhead remains manageable even as the number of 
clients increases, further supporting its feasibility for 
practical deployment in industrial settings. 
In summary, while FedAvg demonstrates the best 
overall accuracy and loss metrics, PP-FedAvg provides a 
significant advantage by preserving privacy without 
Journal of Advances in Information Technology, Vol. 16, No. 3, 2025
442

 
substantial sacrifices in classification performance. CNN, 
although achieving strong ROC and AUROC results, lags 
behind in accuracy and loss, indicating potential 
limitations in this dataset. Ultimately, PP-FedAvg emerges 
as a robust and balanced choice, offering high performance 
with enhanced privacy for applications like ripeness 
grading in the oil palm industry. 
PP-FedAvg offers several advantages, making it a 
robust and practical solution for privacy-sensitive 
applications. By integrating encryption techniques into the 
federated learning framework, it ensures that raw data 
remains securely stored on local devices, significantly 
reducing the risk of data breaches. Despite its  
privacy-preserving focus, PP-FedAvg maintains high 
predictive accuracy, achieving a competitive accuracy of 
97.9%, and strikes a balance between privacy and 
performance. It is highly scalable, enabling distributed 
model training across multiple devices or nodes without 
requiring centralized data aggregation. This scalability 
makes it particularly effective in handling heterogeneous 
datasets, which are common in real-world scenarios. 
Additionally, PP-FedAvg reduces the risk of single-point 
failure by minimizing reliance on a central server, 
enhancing system resilience. Its ability to adapt to diverse 
data distributions and process data locally makes it  
well-suited for industrial applications, such as ripeness 
grading in the oil palm industry, where data privacy and 
accurate predictions are critical. Furthermore, by 
distributing computational tasks across devices, PP-
FedAvg reduces the need for high-performance centralized 
infrastructure, making it more feasible for deployment in  
resource-constrained environments. Overall, PP-FedAvg 
combines privacy, accuracy, scalability, and efficiency, 
making it an ideal choice for applications requiring secure 
and reliable predictions. 
This is due to its use of encryption techniques and 
procedures to safeguard data privacy while updating the 
model centrally, as well as the absence of physical data 
exchange. This approach will prevent data theft during 
transit. In contrast, FedAvg offers moderate security 
because it lacks encryption when transmitting models to a 
central location. CNN, on the other hand, has low 
security as it often relies on data at a single, potentially 
vulnerable source, which can expose personal data without 
adequate data privacy protection. In terms of speed, CNN 
is the fastest because it trains the model using data at a 
single source. In contrast, FedAvg and PP-FedAvg involve 
centralizing and processing data from multiple devices, 
which may slow down the process. Additionally, there 
could be minor differences in how PP-FedAvg utilizes the 
encoded model. Nonetheless, CNN, FedAvg, and  
PP-FedAvg all deliver high model qual ity, so the choice 
should be based on the specific intended use. 
This study also evaluates the model’s performance by 
examining accuracy and loss metrics to ensure the 
reliability of predictions. From Table IV, the PP-FedAvg is 
selected to deploy with the highest performance of all. The 
results show that the developed model can predict the test 
dataset with a high degree of accuracy. However, when we 
train the model with a training dataset to convergence, we 
get the loss in the convergence dataset to 0.0002% per 
epoch, which is a relatively low prediction error for the 
model. As a result, the model can effectively modify the 
parameters to fit with the training set data. This model is 
also selected as the initial global model. 
Next, the global model is used by the client web 
application, which will automatically update with new 
information. As shown in Table IV, PP-FedAvg achieves 
high accuracy at 97.9%, close to FedAvg’s 98.7%, while 
significantly enhancing data privacy (rated ‘High’ vs. 
FedAvg’s ‘Medium’). While it takes slightly longer to 
train, PP-FedAvg is the selected model for its combination 
of high accuracy and superior data protection, making it 
ideal for web applications that prioritize both performance 
and privacy. 
The performance of each model through the web 
application platform was compared in terms of accuracy, 
RMSE, MAE, and time, with actual usage data shown in 
Table V.  
TABLE V. COMPARING THE PERFORMANCES OF EACH METHOD 
Location Model V. No. Input 
CNN 
FedAvg 
PP-FedAvg 
Accuracy 
(%) 
RMSE MAE 
Time Accuracy 
(%) 
RMSE MAE 
Time Accuracy 
(%) 
RMSE MAE 
Time 
General 
Default 
5005 
87 
0.01 
0.10 
5:07 
90 
0.02 
0.10 
7:58 
92.5 
0.03 
0.09 
8:51 
Industries 1 
0004 
102 
50 
0.03 
0.12 
0:10 
93.5 
0.03 
0.10 
0:07 
93.5 
0.04 
0.12 
0:09 
Industries 2 
0005 
100 
59 
0.05 
0.10 
0:09 
92.5 
0.05 
0.12 
0:08 
94.0 
0.03 
0.10 
0:09 
Industries 3 
0006 
99 
75 
0.04 
0.09 
0:08 
95 
0.01 
0.09 
0:07 
96.5 
0 
0.10 
0:10 
Industries 4 
0007 
100 
80 
0.03 
0.10 
0:07 
96 
0.02 
0.12 
0:07 
96.7 
0.01 
0.12 
0:10 
 
In the comparative analysis shown in Fig. 6, an accuracy 
higher than 90% is considered very good. PP-FedAvg 
achieved the highest accuracy at 96.7%, followed by 
FedAvg  at 96%, and CNN at 80%. The Root Mean Square 
Error (RMSE), which represents the difference between 
predicted and actual values, did not show significant 
variation across models, as indicated in Fig. 7. PP-FedAvg 
had RMSE values ranging from 0.01 to 0.04, while CNN 
and FedAvg had values ranging from 0.01 to 0.05. These 
values are considered satisfactory, as a typical RMSE 
should be less than 0.1. The Mean Absolute Error (MAE), 
which represents the average absolute difference between 
predicted and actual values, ranged from 0.09 to 0.12 
across all models. This is considered a favorable result, as 
it falls within the acceptable range of 0.1 to 0.2 for MAE, 
as shown in Fig. 8. In terms of computation time, CNN 
completed the task in the shortest time among all models. 
FedAvg took slightly less time than PP-FedAvg, as 
demonstrated in Fig. 9. 
 
Journal of Advances in Information Technology, Vol. 16, No. 3, 2025
443

 
 
Fig. 6. Accuracy comparison of the methods. 
 
Fig. 7. RMSE of each method. 
 
Fig. 8. MAE of each method. 
 
Fig. 9. Time of each method. 
Therefore, from the above comparative analysis,  
PP-FedAvg achieved the best results in classification 
accuracy, measuring the prediction error using the RMSE, 
MAE, and prediction time of the system. This study had 
different work processes compared to the prior work as 
summarized in Table VI. 
TABLE VI. A COMPARISON OF THE ORIGINAL SYSTEM AND THE 
PROPOSED SYSTEM WITH FL-OPI 
System/
Method  
Input 
Process 
Output 
Original 
Single 
file/time 
- Countdown 
timer for 
processing 
- Show percentages separated 
by class 
FL-OPI 
Multiple 
files/time 
- Notify the 
queue order 
in 
processing. 
- Shows total 
processing 
time. 
- Graph showing overall 
percentage. 
- Group imported data by class. 
- Shows the total percentage of 
the class, and percentage of 
each file within the class. 
- Summary of results, arranged 
in order of the percentage of 
data that has a lot to the least. 
- Show input leader 
information. 
 
In this study, an FL framework was utilized to update 
a global machine learning model without using raw data, 
making it available to all clients for predictive 
categorization. Clients could use the global model to 
update their local models by retraining with private data. 
Data are encrypted and sent back to the server securely, 
where the are stored in encrypted files. The system ensures 
safety through encrypted passwords and authentication 
token login sessions. The global model is then updated to 
enhance its functionality before being redistributed to 
clients. This approach not only ensures data privacy but 
also improves the accuracy of predictive models. 
Moreover, the method supports the creation of a  
cross-platform web application that users can access from 
any device or location. 
In terms of accuracy evaluation, conventional models 
are developed using data that have been gathered and 
directly assessed by specialists. Training and test accuracy 
values are used to assess the proposed system’s correctness. 
The models are fine-tuned by adjusting hyperparameters 
such as learning rate, batch size, epoch count, and model 
structure. This iterative enhancement, based on accuracy 
indicators, improves prediction efficiency. The system 
effectively determines the ripeness stages of oil palm fruit 
bunches, displaying processing times and percentages for 
each ripeness stage. 
The newly developed model was integrated into a web 
application, providing users with an intuitive interface for 
seamless interaction. The system predicts the ripeness 
level of oil palm fruit bunches and presents results as 
percentages for each ripeness stage, accompanied by 
graphical visualizations on the web dashboard. Users can 
also access historical interactions and usage records, 
enhancing the overall user experience. 
PP-FedAvg delivers significant business benefits due to 
its high accuracy and robust privacy measures. Its 
enhanced accuracy in ripeness grading minimizes 
classification errors, ensuring that palm oil mills pay fair 
prices based on the actual oil content of Fresh Fruit 
Bunches (FFB). This leads to greater efficiency in oil 
extraction, reduces wastage, and ultimately boosts 
profitability. Additionally, the privacy-preserving features 
of PP-FedAvg safeguard sensitive operational data, 
mitigating the risk of data breaches and ensuring 
Journal of Advances in Information Technology, Vol. 16, No. 3, 2025
444

 
compliance with privacy regulations. This fosters trust 
among stakeholders, including farmers, mill operators, and 
regulatory bodies, strengthening business relationships. 
Furthermore, the secure management of data enhances a 
company’s reputation, positioning it as a leader in adopting 
innovative and ethical technologies. By striking a balance 
between performance and privacy, PP-FedAvg not only 
optimizes operational efficiency but also supports 
long-term sustainability and competitiveness in the palm 
oil industry. 
Following the evaluation of the PP-FedAvg model, a 
web application was developed featuring a user-friendly 
dashboard. This dashboard allows users to interact with the 
model for assessing the ripeness of oil palm fruit. It 
provides real-time predictions of ripeness levels, presented 
both as percentages for each ripeness stage and as visual 
graphs for easier interpretation. The dashboard also 
includes features to review historical data, allowing users 
to track previous assessments and trends over time. This 
feature supports better decision-making and operational 
planning for mills. Furthermore, the application is 
designed with user-friendliness in mind, offering clear 
navigation and responsive performance across various 
devices. 
Preliminary user feedback highlighted the ease of use 
and practicality of the dashboard. Users appreciated the 
graphical representation of results, which simplified 
complex data into actionable insights. However, some 
users suggested enhancements such as more customizable 
settings for specific use cases, which have been noted for 
future development. Users also recommend that it be 
applied and developed in conjunction with the automation 
for embedded systems. Overall, the web application 
dashboard not only enhances accessibility and usability 
but also reinforces the practicality of the PP-FedAvg 
model in real-world industrial applications. 
The deployment of the PP-FedAvg model into the web 
application presented some challenges, particularly related 
to latency and server compatibility. During the initial 
deployment, latency was observed when handling  
real-time data processing, especially as the number of 
connected client devices increased. This issue was 
mitigated by optimizing the server’s workload distribution 
and 
implementing 
asynchronous 
data 
processing 
techniques, 
which 
ensured 
smoother 
real-time 
interactions. Additionally, ensuring compatibility across 
different server environments posed challenges due to 
variations in operating systems, hardware configurations, 
and 
network 
setups. 
These 
were 
addressed 
by 
containerizing the application using Docker, which 
provided a consistent deployment environment and 
simplified the integration process across diverse server 
infrastructures. Despite these challenges, the deployment 
was successful after the optimizations, resulting in a robust 
and scalable system that supports real-time data processing 
and 
privacy-preserving 
operations. 
These 
insights 
highlight the importance of addressing technical obstacles 
during deployment to ensure the system’s efficiency and 
reliability in industrial settings. 
V. CONCLUSION 
This research compared the modeling techniques CNN, 
FedAvg, and PP-FedAvg. The researchers selected  
PP-FedAvg  to develop a prediction model with centralized 
functionality that can be shared without direct data 
exchange. 
PP-FedAvg 
employs 
Privacy-Preserving 
techniques to ensure data security against unauthorized 
events. This study utilized a total of 5209 images of oil palm 
bunches, comprising 2571 single bunch images and 2638 
multiple bunch images, taken both indoors and outdoors. 
All images were categorized into four maturity levels: raw, 
semi-raw, semi-ripe, and ripe, with an additional 15% of the 
images used for testing the local model. After training the 
model, it was found that the color of oil palm bunches 
significantly affects the oil yield, with each maturity level 
providing different quantities of oil. The prediction results 
are displayed in a web application dash- board for user 
convenience. The developed model achieved an accuracy 
of 92.5%. One key limitation is the scalability of the 
proposed PP-FedAvg model across different regions. 
While the model demonstrates robust performance on the 
dataset collected from a single location, its generalizability 
to other regions with different environmental conditions, 
palm fruit species, and agricultural practices requires 
further investigation. Additionally, the dataset used in this 
study may contain inherent biases, such as imbalanced 
representation of ripeness levels and variations in image 
quality, which could affect the model’s predictive 
accuracy. 
Future work will focus on enhancing the PP-FedAvg 
model by integrating advanced privacy-preserving 
techniques, such as differential privacy, to ensure 
individual data anonymity while safeguarding against 
inference attacks. This enhancement will maintain the 
model’s scalability and efficiency while expanding its 
applicability to a broader range of agricultural products, 
including bananas, mangoes, and tomatoes, which face 
similar challenges related to data privacy and predictive 
accuracy. Additionally, future iterations of the model 
could incorporate additional factors into the analysis, such 
as nutrient levels (e.g., nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, 
magnesium, and boron), environmental conditions  
(e.g., soil type, weather, and soil moisture), and 
physiological measurements (e.g., bunch weight, frond 
production, canopy dimensions, and leaf area) to further 
improve the oil yield prediction model’s accuracy and 
comprehensiveness. To address the reviewer’s comment, 
the exclusion of additional parameters such as nutrient 
levels (e.g., nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, magnesium, 
and boron), environmental factors (e.g., soil type, weather, 
and soil moisture), and physiological measurements 
(e.g., bunch weight, frond production, canopy dimensions, 
and leaf area) in the oil yield prediction model is 
acknowledged and justified in the manuscript.  Efforts will 
also focus on expanding the dataset to include diverse 
regions and conditions, utilizing techniques like stratified 
sampling and advanced augmentation to mitigate potential 
biases. These initiatives aim to refine the model’s 
robustness, adaptability to various environmental and 
domain-specific features, and compliance with industry 
Journal of Advances in Information Technology, Vol. 16, No. 3, 2025
445

 
standards for data privacy and accuracy, ensuring its 
broader applicability in agricultural and industrial 
contexts. 
CONFLICT OF INTEREST 
The authors declare no conflict of interest. 
AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS 
PL performed data analysis and results visualization and 
wrote the manuscript. SJ, JM, TP and YP collected the data 
and made contributions to data analysis. JM, PC, and SJ 
made significant contributions to the conceptualization, 
methodology, data analysis, supervision, validation, and 
writing—review and editing of the study. All authors read 
and approved the final manuscript. Correspondence to 
Jirapond Muangrathub. 
FUNDING 
This work was supported by the Digital Science for 
Economy, 
Society, 
Human 
Resources 
Innovative 
Development and Environment project funded by 
Reinventing Universities & Research Institutes under grant 
no. 2046735, Ministry of Higher Education, Science, 
Research and Innovation, Thailand. In addition, this 
research was supported by National Science, Research and 
Innovation Fund (NSRF) and Prince of Songkla University 
Ref. No. SIT6701364S.  
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
The authors are deeply grateful to the Faculty of Science 
and Industrial Technology, Prince of Songkla University, 
Surat Thani campus, Thailand. 
REFERENCES 
[1] D. N. Arulnathan, B. C. W. Koay, W. K. Lai et al., “Background 
subtraction for accurate palm oil fruitlet ripeness detection,” in Proc. 
IEEE International Conference on Automatic Control and 
Intelligent Systems (I2CACIS), June 2022, pp. 48–53. 
[2] N. Kumari, R. K. Dwivedi, A. K. Bhatt, and R. Belwal, “Automated 
fruit grading using optimal feature selection and hybrid 
classification by self-adaptive chicken swarm optimization: 
Grading of mango,” Neural Computing and Applications, vol. 34, 
pp. 1285–1306, January 2022. 
[3] B. Xu, X. Cui, W. Ji et al., “Apple grading method design and 
implementation for automatic grader based on improved YOLOv5,” 
Agriculture, vol. 13, no. 1, Jan 2023.  
[4] M. S. M. Alfatni, S. Khairunniza-Bejo, M. H. B. Marhaban et al., 
“Towards 
a 
real-time oil palm fruit maturity system using 
supervised classifiers based on feature analysis,” Agriculture, vol. 
12, no. 9, 2022. 
[5] R. Taheri, M. Shojafar, M. Alazab, and R. Tafazolli, “Fed-IIot: A 
robust federated malware detection architecture in industrial Iot,” 
IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics, vol. 17, no. 12, pp. 
8442–8452, December 2021. 
[6] F.-C. Chen and M. R. Jahanshahi “Nb-CNN: Deep learning-based 
crack detection using convolutional neural network and naïve bayes 
data fusion,” IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 65, 
no. 5, pp. 4392–4400, May 2018. 
[7] W. Choi, “Deep learning implemented structural defect detection 
on digital images,” Ph.D. dissertation, Dept. Civil. Engineering., 
University of Manitoba., Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada, 2020. 
[8] J. Shi, W. Yin, Y. Du et al., “Automated underwater pipeline 
damage detection using neural nets,” in Proc. ICRA 2019, 
Workshop on Under-water Robotics Perception, 2019. 
[9] H. Yang, S. Mei, K. Song et al., “Transfer-learning-based online 
mura defect classification,” IEEE Transactions on Semiconductor 
Manufacturing, vol. 31, no. 1, pp. 116–123, February 2018. 
[10] Z. Tang, E. Tian, Y. Wang et al., “Nondestructive defect detection 
in castings by using spatial attention bilinear convolutional neural 
network,” IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics, vol. 17, 
no. 1, pp. 82–89, Jan 2021. 
[11] R. Ren, T. Hung, and K. C. Tan, “A generic deep-learning-based 
approach for automated surface inspection,” IEEE Transactions on 
Cybernetics, vol. 48, no. 3, pp. 929–940, March 2018. 
[12] X. Dong, C. J. Taylor, and T. F. Cootes, “Small defect detection 
using convolutional neural network features and random forests,” in 
Proc. European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV) 
Workshops, 2018, pp. 398–412. 
[13] J. Balzategui, L. Eciolaza, and N. Arana-Arexolaleiba, “Defect 
detection on polycrystalline solar cells using electroluminescence 
and fully convolutional neural networks,” in Proc. 2020 IEEE/SICE 
International Symposium on System Integration (SII), 2020, pp. 
949–953. 
[14] M. R. U. Rahman and H. Chen, “Defects inspection in 
polycrystalline solar cells electroluminescence images using deep 
learning,” IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 40547–40558, 2020. 
[15] H. Han, C. Gao, Y. Zhao et al., “Polycrystalline silicon wafer defect 
segmentation based on deep convolutional neural networks,” 
Pattern Recognition Letters, vol. 130, pp. 234–241, 2020. 
[16] Z. He and Q. Liu, “Deep regression neural network for industrial 
surface defect detection,” IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 35583–35591, 
2020. 
[17] S. Zambal, C. Heindl, C. Eitzinger, and J. Scharinger, “End-to-end 
defect detection in automated fiber placement based on artificially 
generated data.” in Proc. Fourteenth International Conference on 
Quality Control by Artificial Vision. 2019, 68. 
[18] L. Lyu, H. Yu, and Q. Yang, “Threats to federated learning: A 
survey,” arXiv preprint, arXiv:2003.02133, 2020. 
[19] Z. Li, V. Sharma, and S. P. Mohanty, “Preserving data privacy via 
federated learning: Challenges and solutions,” IEEE Consumer 
Electronics Magazine, vol. 9, no. 3, pp. 8–16, May 2020. 
[20] G. A. Kaissis, M. R. Makowski, D. Rückert et al., “Secure, privacy-
preserving and federated machine learning in medical imaging,” 
Nature Machine Intelligence, vol. 2, no. 6, pp. 305–311, 2020. 
[21] W. Y. B. Lim, N. C. Luong, D. T. Hoang et al., “Federated learning 
in mobile edge networks: A comprehensive survey,” IEEE 
Communications Surveys & Tutorials, vol. 22, no. 3, pp. 2031–2063, 
2020. 
[22] Q. Li, Z. Wen, Z. Wu et al., “A survey on federated learning systems: 
Vision, hype and reality for data privacy and protection,” IEEE 
Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, vol. 35, no. 4, 
pp. 3347–3366, 2021. 
[23] P. Kairouz, S. Oh, and P. Viswanath, “The composition theorem for 
differential privacy,” in Proc. International Conference on 
Machine Learning, 2015, pp. 1376–1385. 
[24] Y. Qian, L. Hu, J. Chen et al., “Privacy-aware service placement 
for mobile edge computing via federated learning,” Information 
Sciences, vol. 505, pp. 562–570, 2019. 
 
Copyright © 2025 by the authors. This is an open access article 
distributed under the Creative Commons Attribution License which 
permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, 
provided the original work is properly cited (CC BY 4.0). 
 
Journal of Advances in Information Technology, Vol. 16, No. 3, 2025
446
