Citation: Lai, J.W.; Ramli, H.R.;
Ismail, L.I.; Wan Hasan, W.Z. Oil
Palm Fresh Fruit Bunch Ripeness
Detection Methods: A Systematic
Review. Agriculture 2023, 13, 156.
https://doi.org/10.3390/
agriculture13010156
Academic Editor: Hongbin Pu
Received: 28 October 2022
Revised: 23 November 2022
Accepted: 23 November 2022
Published: 8 January 2023
Copyright:
© 2023 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed
under
the
terms
and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
agriculture
Review
Oil Palm Fresh Fruit Bunch Ripeness Detection Methods:
A Systematic Review
Jin Wern Lai, Haﬁz Rashidi Ramli *, LuthfﬁIdzhar Ismail
and Wan Zuha Wan Hasan
Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Universiti Putra Malaysia,
Serdang 43400, Selangor, Malaysia
* Correspondence: hrhr@upm.edu.my
Abstract: The increasing severity of the labour shortage problem in the Malaysian palm oil industry
has created a need to explore other avenues for harvesting oil palm fresh fruit bunches (FFBs) such as
through autonomous robots’ deployment. However, the ﬁrst step in using an autonomous system
to harvest FFBs is to identify which FFBs have become ripe and are ready to be harvested. In this
work, we reviewed previous and current methods of identifying the maturity of fresh fruit bunches
as found in the literature. The different methods were then compared in terms of the types of sample
data used, sensor modalities, and types of classiﬁers used with a particular focus on the feasibility
of each method for on-ﬁeld application. From the 51 papers reviewed, which include a total of
11 unique approaches, it was found that the most feasible method for detecting ripe FFBs in the ﬁeld
is a combination of computer vision and deep learning. This system has the advantages of being a
noncontact approach that is low cost while also being able to operate in real time with high accuracy.
Keywords: oil palm; fresh fruit bunch; maturity; ripeness; detection; grading
1. Introduction
Malaysia is one of the biggest palm oil producing countries in the world. The palm
oil industry is a signiﬁcant contributor to the country’s gross domestic product (GDP),
and its development is still on an upward trend. The palm oil companies have more
than a million hectares of plantation land to produce fresh fruit bunches (FFBs). These
bunches contain the precious palm oil, and they are harvested when they have ripened.
Therefore, several rules and guidelines were developed in order to achieve the maximum
oil extraction rate (OER) from the FFBs when they are processed in the mills. The ﬁrst
step in maximising oil extraction is making the correct selection of FFBs to be harvested.
This is accomplished by referring to the guidelines from the Malaysian Palm Oil Board
(MPOB). On the oil palm estates, the FFBs can only be harvested once the oil palm trees
reach maturity three years after planting. The ﬁeld workers will harvest the FFBs during
the 10–14 days of the harvesting interval. The harvesters will search for oil palm trees with
a certain number of detached fruitlets that have dropped to the ground. This signiﬁes that
there are ripe FFBs on the tree. The workers will then visually identify the FFBs that are
ripe based on the colour of the FFBs as well as the sockets that are formed when the fruitlets
drop to the ground. FFBs that meet the correct criteria are considered to have ripened and
should be harvested. The harvested FFBs will then be collected and transported to the
palm oil mill for oil extraction [1]. In general, the FFBs are delivered to the mill within 24 h
after harvesting to ensure that the quality of the fruit is maintained. However, this is not
guaranteed due to factors such as unpredictable thunderstorms during the afternoon and
other logistical incidents. This can cause the FFBs to become overripe as they are processed
in the mill which will result in oil that is of reduced quality.
The oil palm industry requires technologically advanced equipment to minimise
dependence on labour, especially with the labour shortage crisis faced in recent years.
Agriculture 2023, 13, 156. https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture13010156
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/agriculture

Agriculture 2023, 13, 156
2 of 16
Efforts to implement state-of-the-art technology for harvesting the FFBs such as mobile
robots that can operate autonomously are becoming increasingly essential for maintaining
and increasing productivity levels. In addition, such innovations could also be used to
eliminate the possibility of human error in decision-making tasks that affect productivity [2].
The ﬁrst step in realising an autonomous FFB harvesting system is to develop a system
that would be to be able to accurately and objectively identify ripened FFBs that are ready
for harvest. In the last decade, numerous methods of objectively identifying the maturity
of FFBs have been proposed by researchers to help ensure that the FFBs harvested have
reached the proper maturity stage. In this paper, we present a comprehensive review
of the various systems that are able to detect the maturity of FFBs with an emphasis on
examining the feasibility and readiness of the systems developed to be used on-ﬁeld. This
is because it is in the interest of the industry to address the labour shortage issue with
the aforementioned technologies as soon as possible. The inclusion criteria for papers
reviewed are:
(a)
Published between 2012 to 2022.
(b)
The written language is English only
(c)
Found using the following combination of keywords in Google Scholar: oil palm, fresh
fruit bunch, freshness, mature, maturity ripeness, grading, assessment, classiﬁcation,
detection, identiﬁcation.
(d)
The papers found underwent a ﬁnal ﬁltering process where only the papers that were
presenting the results of a proposed method for detecting the ripeness of (exclusively)
oil palm FFB were selected for this review.
The following is the structure of the current work: Section 2 introduces the popular
learning models and algorithms for detecting the maturity of FFBs. The description of the
adopted approach for the collection and categorisation of the presented works is discussed
in Section 3, and prospects in the domain are highlighted. Finally, the ﬁndings of the review
are summaried in Section 4.
2. Fresh Fruit Bunch Ripeness Evaluation Methods
Generally, there are two types of methods to analyse the ripeness of FFBs, destructive
methods and nondestructive methods. The destructive methods require physical contact in
ways that affect the integrity of the FFBs and severely reduce the amount of oil that can
be extracted from the tested FFBs. Meanwhile, the nondestructive techniques can involve
noncontact features that are either visual or nonvisual. Nonvisual methods include using
physicochemical, electrical, magnetic, and electromagnetic properties to determine fruit
maturity such as ﬂuorescence sensor, microwave sensor, inductive sensor, and thermal
sensor. However, most nondestructive methods are visual, in which the selected sensor
can evaluate through the morphology, colour, and other physical characteristics of the fruit
to identify their maturity stages through the analysis of speciﬁc modalities such as colour
vision, light detection and ranging, spectral image, and near-infrared spectroscopy.
2.1. Nondestructive Methods
2.1.1. Colour Vision
In the past, the maturity of FFB was determined by human observation. The observa-
tion process required labour cost, and also misclassiﬁcations could occur. Therefore, image
analysis using colour vision was more suitable for screening FFBs because it is commercial
and easy to handle. After the image is captured, inspection begins using image processing
software and data acquisition software. Usually, a colour image forms and appears that
combines the red, green, and blue (RGB) tristimulus values. Hence, the FFBs are captured
using image processing, and the image captured undergoes analysis to evaluate ripeness
by RGB colour [3]. Recently, to enhance the performance of maturity classiﬁcation on FFB,
different segmentation methods were proposed using colour vision systems. Septiarini
et al. [4] implemented the Otsu method to segmentize the area of the oil palm fruit from the
background in the image and obtain an iterative threshold. Septiarini et al. [5] implement

Agriculture 2023, 13, 156
3 of 16
the Canny algorithm combined with several morphology operations to remove the noise in
the image.
To increase the accuracy of FFB maturity recognition, advanced artiﬁcial intelligence
tools such as machine learning or deep learning are required [6]. For example, images are
collected and preprocessed to train under the artiﬁcial neural network (ANN), and the
ANN learns the features from those images [7,8]. Moreover, the support vector machine
(SVM) and naïve Bayes classiﬁer are applied on maturity grading after colour images are
captured [9].
Furthermore, a multispectral system was proposed for evaluating the ripeness grading.
The multispectral system was able to select speciﬁc optical ﬁlters with different wavelengths
for penetrating objects or blocking noise. Therefore, the internal components and properties
in the fruit could be discovered. Using the hyperspectral camera to capture the image
could verify the amount of water content in the oil palm fruitlets. The multispectral system
could perform even higher spatial resolution and image quality compare to the traditional
system [10].
2.1.2. Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR)
Generally, LiDAR is a remote sensing technology that is applied in precision agri-
culture, archaeology, and other applications. The use of LiDAR has the potential in the
classiﬁcation of FFB maturity since LiDAR can acquire the actual distance and intensity
from the target object. The LiDAR sensor emits laser light to the targeted object and receives
the reﬂected light signal to calculate the distance between the sensor and the object. LiDAR
also calculates the intensity of the object, which is the key to distinguishing the ripeness
stage of FFB [11]. Hashim et al. [12] veriﬁed the accuracy of using LiDAR sensors in FFB
maturity. In the experiment, LiDAR Lite v2 sensor was used to experiment in the laboratory
and on-ﬁeld. The LiDAR Lite v2 emitted a pulse of light with a 905 nm wavelength, and
the reﬂected signal was received and transmitted back. The data were used to plot the
graphical representation of the point cloud 3D mapping representing different maturity
stages. Husin et al. [13] also used LiDAR on FFB maturity classiﬁcation. In the experiment,
LiDAR Lite v3 was used, and it received the reﬂected light signal to calculate the mean
of return intensity. The researchers enhanced the use of LiDAR technology by creating a
distribution map based on received latitude and longitude location. This will pinpoint the
location of the ripe FFBs that are ready for harvesting.
2.1.3. Optical Sensor—Spectral Image
Several different wavelengths can be used to capture FFB images. The ultimate goal
of multispectral image analysis is to examine the image intensity at various wavelengths
especially in the ultraviolet (UV), visible light, and infrared spectra. One of the key beneﬁts
of this examination is that more information detail can be investigated; for instance, the
object’s chemical components can be retrieved. The hyperspectral camera is used to take
multispectral images in order to measure the maturity level of palm oil FFB. The relative
water content in palm oil FFBs can be determined using these images [10]. In our studies,
the hyperspectral camera is not the only appliance for building an optical sensor system.
Others researchers used several LEDs with different wavelengths as their source light to
capture images of the FFBs for determining the maturity stage [14]. Moreover, the FFB
image data were collected using a handheld four-band active sensor [15]. Four narrow-
band (active optic) light sources and reﬂectance sensor components of various wavelengths
were used in the system: two in the visible area (at 570 and 670 nm), one in the red-edge
region (750 nm), and one in the near-infrared region (870 nm). For four bands, the spectral
band width was around 50 nm. Each spectral area indicated distinct qualities that could be
used to classify palm oil FFB maturity.

Agriculture 2023, 13, 156
4 of 16
2.1.4. Near-Infrared Spectroscopy (NIR)
NIR is applied in the agriculture industry. The advantages of this method are nonde-
structive, and both physical and chemical substances can be measured. NIR spectroscopy
analyses the chemical composition of fruit such as aqueous mixture, sugar level, ﬁrmness,
and acidity. This method ﬁlls the gap in classifying FFB maturity. Traditionally, the har-
vester may make mistaken analyses of ripeness based on visual evaluation of features
such as shape, size, and colour. Usually, the maturity stage of fruit can be identiﬁed
by wavelength between 750 nm to 2500 nm. The electromagnetic spectrum in the near-
infrared region can penetrate the organic substance because it has low absorption and low
reﬂection [16]. Through the process, the substance properties allow for distinguishing the
maturity grades of fruit, as the chemical composition of fruit changes signiﬁcantly from
unripe to ripe. Silalahi et al. [17] pointed out NIR spectroscopy as an alternative method for
grading the ripeness of FFB by analysing the chemical composition of fruits. The samples
were scanned under a near-infrared sensor with wavelengths of 1108–2500 nm. The test re-
sults showed the ripening of mesocarp changes depending on the oil content and moisture
content. In addition, NIR spectroscopy was also applied to grading the ripeness of FFB
combined with using a genetic algorithm neural network [18]. The variables that are used
in the genetic algorithm are provided from PCA in the NIR spectral data. The reliability of
the genetic algorithm model is based on statistical measurements such as mean absolute
error (MAE), root mean squared error (RMSE), and the accuracy of the classiﬁcation.
2.1.5. Raman Spectra
Raman spectroscopy has been used to determine the maturity and freshness of toma-
toes [19] and citrus fruits [20] by detecting the molecular vibrations of carotenoids and other
chemical components found in the fruit’s skin. Both a confocal Raman spectrometer and a
portable Raman spectrometer were used to demonstrate these ﬁndings. A Raman-based
device measures inelastic scattering from a compound’s surface, which is then used as
a molecular ﬁngerprint. A leaf-clip-based Raman probe successfully proved to provide
real-time monitoring for early identiﬁcation of nutritional insufﬁciency. Recently, Raj
et al. [21] used Raman spectroscopy to determine the maturity of oil palm fruitlets. The
organic characteristics of the exocarp of oil palm fruitlets were studied using a confocal
Raman spectroscopy device. They led to the realization that carotene content is one of
the most important factors in determining the maturity of oil palm fruits. They showed
that the Raman spectrum’s carotene peak may be further deconvoluted and processed to
identify four carotenoid components: carotene, lycopene, lutein, and neoxanthin. These
elements and their derivations are used as features in machine-learning-based classiﬁcation
algorithms to automatically identify the maturity state of oil palm fruits.
2.1.6. Fluorescence Sensing
The use of ﬂuorescence sensing on FFB classiﬁcation was introduced by Hazir et al. [22].
The researchers measured the content of ﬂavonoids and anthocyanin in the plant cell system
using ﬂuorescence methods. The ﬂavonoids and anthocyanin are the phenolic content in
the plant system that protect them from insect attack, and the phenolic content is important
for attracting animals for seed dispersal. The researchers applied the ﬂuorescence based
on the phenolic content in the fruit. When UV light hits the epidermis, the ﬂavonoids
absorb the UV light. At the same time, the chlorophyll from mesophyll emits near-infrared
ﬂuorescence on the plant leaf. Meanwhile, anthocyanins are produced in the epidermis
by absorbing the green light. Therefore, the phenolic content in FFBs can be measured to
identify different maturity stages on the FFB after ﬂuorescence scanning. Hazir et al. [23]
used ﬂuorescence sensors to classify the ripeness of FFB. The researchers investigated
the implementation of the blue-to-red ﬂuorescence ratio (BRR_FRF) as a parameter to
differentiate the maturity of FFB. The researchers used the Multiplex*3 sensor in the
experiment. The Multiplex*3 sensor functions under four types of lights, UV, blue, green,
and red. The sensor has three photodiodes for detecting purpose on the ﬂuorescence

Agriculture 2023, 13, 156
5 of 16
emission. The bandwidths of photodiodes emission are blue-green (590 nm), red (685 nm),
and far-red (735 nm). The data are collected and measured. The BRR_FRF can be obtained
by dividing the blue-green emission signal by the far-red emission signal. The data were
obtained and trained by classiﬁcation tree using SPSS 16.0.
2.1.7. Microwave Method
Microwave methods can be applied to measure the ripeness of FFB. Yeow et al. [24]
developed a low-cost coaxial moisture sensor to classify the maturity stage of oil palm
fruit by determining its moisture content. This method was applicable because the water
molecules in the fruit are sensitive when exposed to the microwave. This is because the
water molecules have the intention to absorb microwave energy. When the microwave
sensor emitted light to the targeted oil palm fruitlet, the light was interrupted. The receiver
observed the changes in the light and measured moisture content. The microwave sensor
detected the moisture content signiﬁcantly under the frequency range from 300 MHz to
300 GHz. The moisture content in the fruitlet had the highest amount during the unripe
stage and the lowest amount when overripe. This is due to the water content diminished
and oil content produced after the anthesis in the mesocarp. Using a microwave, the
relative complex permittivity εr to the agriculture product is shown in Equation (1):
εr = εr′ −j εr′′
(1)
The variable εr′ is the dielectric constant, and εr′′ is the dielectric loss factor. Both εr′
and εr′′ are related to the moisture content because it absorbs the microwave energy. The
dielectric constant affects the electric ﬁeld distribution. Additionally, the energy absorption
of the material is induced by the loss factor. The relative permittivity of water and oil
also has a huge difference; their relative permittivity is 80 and 2.5 respectively. Hence, the
microwave sensor can detect a slight difference in resonant frequency [25].
2.1.8. Inductive Sensing
Inductive sensing technology was ﬁrst proposed by [26]. In their study, they tested
with the frequency from 100 Hz to 100 MHz on unripe and ripe oil palm fruitlets. The result
showed a signiﬁcant difference between unripe and ripe oil palm fruitlets regarding the
inductance and resonant characteristics. In addition, after testing with the variation in coil
diameter, the single air coil with 24 mm coil diameter showed obvious differences between
unripe and ripe fruitlets based on the resonant frequency. Harun et al. [27] continued their
study on inductive sensing. They investigated the inductive sensor replacing the single
air coil to the dual ﬂat-type shape of air coil and found that it improved the sensitivity up
to 167% of the determination of FFB ripeness. Lately, the ripeness of FFB can be proved
by resonance frequency against time as the result showed it has a linear relationship.
Additionally, the moisture content of the fruitlets reduced in a negative logarithm function
was investigated. The analysis showed that the resonance frequencies acquired for unripe
and ripe fruitlets are around 8.5 MHz and 9.8 MHz [28]. The inductive sensing method
demonstrates the potential for determining the FFB ripeness. The design structure of the
inductive sensor is improving to obtain more sensitive and precise results. Aliteh et al. [29]
proposed using the triple ﬂat-type air coil inductive sensor to identify the maturity of FFB.
The researchers found that the coil with a ﬁxed number of turns with different lengths
was more sensitive because the inductive sensor is of sufﬁcient length to attach to the fruit
surface area. Currently, the inductive-based concept was implemented in the application for
determining the ripeness of FFB. An inductive sensor system was developed and applied
in the ﬁeld [30].
2.1.9. Laser Light Backscattering
Laser-light backscattering was lately proposed to classify the ripeness of FFB and
applied for determining the maturity of such as apricot [31], banana [32], and macaw oil
palm [33]. Laser-light backscattering can determine the textural and mechanical properties

Agriculture 2023, 13, 156
6 of 16
of the fruit. The physical properties in the fruit can be acquired by tuning the wavelength
of the laser diode. In addition, the backscattering proﬁle is correlated to the scattering
properties and absorption of the fruit [34]. The laser-light backscattering is supported
by Utom et al. [35], who discovered that chlorophyll act as a photoreceptor. It absorbs
light with a wavelength in the region of 400 to 700 nm. Therefore, the carotenoids and
chlorophyll contents can be an indicator to classify the maturity of FFB. In the past, this
method was implemented in the different agricultural crops for monitoring fruit quality.
For example, Babazadeh et al. [36] applied laser light backscattering imaging to distinguish
the potatoes that only contained α-solanine taxicant. Ali et al. [37] developed a backscat-
tering images system to classify seeded and seedless watermelons. In 2020, Ali et al. [38]
combined backscattering imaging and computer vision to determine the maturity level of
FFB. The authors used discriminant analysis and quadratic discriminant analysis to carry
out the classiﬁcation with the combination of backscattering parameters and RGB values.
The experimental research demonstrated this method achieved above 85% accuracies for
classifying the ripeness of oil palm FFB.
2.1.10. Thermal Sensing
The maturity grading of FFB using thermal vision was ﬁrst proposed by Fauziah
et al. [39]. The authors found that the traditional FFB harvesting method was inappro-
priate due to the environmental condition and animal disturbances. In addition, the FFB
harvesting with long-range detection and nondestructive method was usually affected by
lighting environment. Therefore, the authors introduced using thermal vision since the
lighting has no explicit effect on the thermal principle’s outcomes. The object temperature
emission was used to carry out the testing procedure. The oil content had an effect on the
thermal characteristics (heat) of the object. The oil content of the fruit increases as it ripens:
the higher the ripeness level, the less water content and the higher the oil content. This
phenomenon could be seen using a thermal camera’s image. This camera is monochromatic,
meaning it cannot observe the colours but can detect the strength of radiation. The strength
of the radiation is directly proportional to the ripeness degree of the fruit, as seen in the
picture extraction outcomes. The picture extraction results are the elements of redness,
greenish, and bluish, which are transformed into temperatures. The FFB surface tempera-
ture can be utilised to predict greater ripeness. As the fruit ripens, the heat level rises. The
temperature will fall after optimum ripeness. The authors further improved the thermal
vision method implemented in a device. They discovered that two quality parameters had
higher coefﬁcients of determination related to FFB surface temperature: carotene content
and oil and moisture ratio. Therefore, a linear and multiple regression model could be
employed to predict the ripeness of oil palm FFB at the pre-harvest stage using a thermal
imaging system. This method can also be used to estimate the time it will take to harvest
the oil palm FFB [40].
2.2. Destructive Methods
Fruit Battery
The estimation of ripeness of FFB using fruit battery was ﬁrst proposed by Mi-
nakata et al. [41]. The authors designed the fruit battery using copper and zinc electrode.
These metal electrodes pricked through the surface of oil palm fruitlets, and ionization
occurred. Zinc experiences oxidation by leaving two electrons as zinc has a higher level of
activity series compared with copper. The copper electrode received electrons from the zinc
electrode. The electron will combine with a hydrogen ion since the fruitlets contain mois-
ture, and hydrogen gas is produced. The half-equations are shown below. A small current
produced due to the movement of electrons had a potential difference in the mesocarp.
This is the half equation of the zinc and hydrogen equations [41]:
Zn →Zn2+ + 2e−,
(2)
2H+ + 2e−→H2
(3)

Agriculture 2023, 13, 156
7 of 16
A load of electromotive force generated in the mesocarp conﬁnes in the proportion
of moisture in oil palm fruitlets. The moisture and lipid content in unripe fruitlets occupy
80.1% and 5.9% of content percentage, which has a signiﬁcant difference compared with a
ripe fruitlet. The moisture content converts to lipid content during the maturation of the
fruitlet. The ripe fruitlet has only 24.7% and 58.3% content [28].
The characteristic of moisture and lipid content in the fruitlet become an indicator
for designating the maturity stage of oil palm fruitlets. For instance, Misron et al. [42]
implemented the concept of fruit battery in an application to inspect the maturity of FFB
at the mill. The authors proposed a fruit battery sensor with a charging concept to gain
steady-state condition, which is to avoid inaccurate results from unstable load voltage.
Moreover, the authors proposed the sensor by implementing different adequate parameters.
The parameters included load resistance, charging voltage, and charging time. These
parameters were tested with a variant of data from the experiment to deliver important
information. An investigation found that the sensitivity performance increased where
the load resistance, charging voltage, and charging time increased. Additionally, the
fruit battery sensor improved the accuracy of screening the maturity stage of FFB when
combined with computer vision [43].
3. Discussion
A total of 48 articles were studied in this review. Each article describes a detection
method for determining the ripeness of fresh fruit bunches, and each detection method
has the same parts. The ﬁrst part involves using a speciﬁc type of sensor, e.g., camera—
optical or inductive—to test on a speciﬁc part of the FFB, i.e., fruitlets or entire fruit. Second,
the data captured by the sensor then underwent feature selection or extraction processing
such as PCA before being fed to a classiﬁer. Third and lastly, the classiﬁer provided a ﬁnal
decision on whether the FFB was ripe or otherwise based on the input it received. The
classiﬁer could be classically handcrafted (e.g., K-Nearest Neighbor), or it could be more
modern (e.g., convolutional neural network).
3.1. Source of Sample Data
Throughout the literature, the sample data used varied between the different types of
classiﬁcation maturity methods. The sample data are the source material that is used to
perform the maturity analysis. Both FFBs and oil palm fruitlets can be tested to differentiate
the maturity stages through feature extraction. However, the sample data relies on the
limitation of the sensor application itself. For example, the fruit battery method requires
electrodes to prick the oil palm fruitlet for measurement. For other methods such as
computer vision, LiDAR sensor, and optical sensor, researchers are working with both
FFB and oil palm fruitlets in their studies. These methods enable the information to be
processed regardless of the capture distance and morphography of the object. Table 1
summarizes the material data experimented. In the majority of the previous work, the
sample data (i.e., FFB/fruitlets or both) are collected from the plantation and then brought
into the laboratory or testing environment for analysis. Only a few of the published works
used sample data that were collected and tested on-ﬁeld. This will be explained in more
detail in a later section.

Agriculture 2023, 13, 156
8 of 16
Table 1. Type of sample data used with every method.
Method
Type of Sample Data
Reference
Color vision
Fresh fruit bunches
[8,44,45]
Oil palm fruitlets
[4]
LiDAR sensor
Fresh fruit bunches
[11,13]
Oil palm fruitlets
[12]
NIR
Fresh fruit bunches
[17]
Oil palm fruitlets
[18]
Hyperspectral camera
Fresh fruit bunches
[10]
Optical sensor
Fresh fruit bunches
[35]
Optical spectrometer
Fresh fruit bunches
[46]
Multiband optical sensor
Fresh fruit bunches
[14]
Optical sensor system
Fresh fruit bunches
[15]
Raman spectra
Oil palm fruitlets
[21,47,48]
Fluorescence sensor
Fresh fruit bunches
[22,23]
Inductive sensor
Oil palm fruitlets
[28,29]
Fresh fruit bunches
[30]
Laser-light backscattering and
computer vision
Fresh fruit bunches
[38]
Thermal vision
Fresh fruit bunches
[39]
Thermal imaging
Fresh fruit bunches
[40,49]
Fruit battery
Oil palm fruitlets
[41,42]
Fruit battery and computer vision
Oil palm fruitlets
[43]
3.2. Sensors and Modalities
Figure 1 illustrates the number of articles categorised according to the modalities of
the applied sensors. Almost half of the articles (22) used colour vision to capture the data
from the tested FFB for further determination on its maturity, making it the most popular
method. This can be attributed to the fact that the hardware requirements for this method is
relatively low cost. However, one of the main challenges in using colour vision for detection
is that it is not able to account for partial ripeness conditions. In some cases, different parts
of the FFB reach maturity at different intervals. This could mean that an FFB appears to be
ripe on one side but is actually unripe in other parts. If the image captured was on the side
that appeared ripe, then the FFB would be misclassiﬁed as a ripe FFB.
In the other articles, new methods were proposed that use different features that
cannot be detected by colour imaging, such as fruit battery, thermal sensor, and Raman
spectra. These new discoveries offer potentially innovative solutions for the palm oil
industry to implement FFB maturity classiﬁcation systems.
As mentioned previously, the methods for the maturity classiﬁcation of FFB are
categorised into nondestructive and destructive. Nondestructive methods refer to methods
that measure the FFB maturity stages without damaging the fruit and affecting its oil output.
In this study, all of the methods used were nondestructive, except for the fruit battery
method as this method uses two different types of metal electrodes to prick the mesocarp.
The maturity classiﬁcation is then performed based on the studied electrolyte reaction. The
fruit battery method focuses on the inspection of FFB at the mills’ reception [42]. According
to the current practice, FFBs require an inspection upon arrival at the mill before it is
further processed.

Agriculture 2023, 13, 156
9 of 16
 
0
5
10
15
20
25
Colour Vision
Spectral Image
Inductive Sensor
Fruit Battery
Raman Spectra
Thermal Sensor
Fluorescence Sensor
Laser Light
LiDAR
NIR
Microwave Sensor
Number of Articles According to Detection Technique
Figure 1. The number of articles reviewed based on different detection methods.
3.3. Classiﬁer Comparisons and Trends
Once the features are extracted, they are fed into a classiﬁer to produce the decision
on the maturity level of the tested FFB. In recent years, artiﬁcial intelligence (AI)-based
classiﬁers have greatly increased in popularity. Figure 2 shows the distribution of the
papers reviewed (in terms of total number of papers) according to the type of classiﬁer
model used to classify the maturity stages of the FFB. The analysis shows that most of the
studies used artiﬁcial neural network (ANN) to perform FFB maturity determination. It
also seems that the ANN model is an applicable and reliable tool since it has still been
employed in this sector recently. The ANN model is adopted widely in different types of
extracted features such as images from colour-based, thermal-based, and hyperspectral-
based systems. Meanwhile, the CNN and SVM models are the second and third most used
classiﬁers. It shows that these two methods are allowing for the possibility of integration
and becoming applicable tools.
 
13
7
6
5
4
3
2
11
NUMBER OF ARTICLES ACCORDING TO MODEL USED
ANN
CNN
SVM
KNN
LDA
PCA
REGRESSION
OTHER
Figure 2. The number of articles categorised by different machine learning models and algorithms.

Agriculture 2023, 13, 156
10 of 16
Table 2 shows the machine learning models and algorithms applied sorted by year. The
ML models were used the most in the year 2021, when there were eight papers published
on the topic of determining the maturity of FFB. This shows that the tasks of classifying
FFB maturity are catching up with the latest technology trends.
Table 2. Machine learning models and algorithms applied to classify the FFB maturity stage.
Year
ML Model and Algorithm
Sensor
Reference
2012
ANN, PCA
Colour vision system
[7]
2012
C&RT
Fluorescence sensor
[23]
2012
ANN
Colour image
[50]
2014
ANN, PCA
Colour image
[51]
2014
ANN
Hyperspectral based system
[52]
2014
KNN, ANN, SVM
Colour vision
[53]
2015
Kullback-Leibler distance
Colour vision
[54]
2016
ANN
Colour vision
[8]
2016
PCA, LDA
Near Infrared (NIR)
[17]
2016
Genetic algorithm neural
network
Near Infrared (NIR)
[18]
2016
Uniﬁed modeling language
(UML)
Colour vision
[55]
2018
SVM, Naïve Bayes
Colour vision
[9]
2018
KNN, ANN, SVM
Colour image
[56]
2018
Backpropagation, LVQ
Colour image
[57]
2018
CNN, AlexNet, SVM
Colour vision
[58]
2019
SVM
Colour vision
[4]
2019
LDA
Optical sensor—multiband
[14]
2019
Regression analysis
Fruit battery
[41]
2020
SVM
Fruit battery
[43]
2020
LDA
Colour vision
[44]
2020
Kstar algorithm
Optical—spectrometer
[46]
2020
ANN
Colour vision
[59]
2020
DenseNet, ResAtt
Colour vision
[60]
2021
KNN
Optical- Raman spectroscopy
[21]
2021
ANN
Thermal vision system
[39]
2021
Linear regression
Thermal imaging
[40]
2021
ANN
Colour vision
[61]
2021
ANN
Colour vision
[62]
2021
CNN—EfﬁcientNet
Colour vision
[63]
2021
Fuzzy logic
-
[64]
2021
CNN—YOLOv3
Colour vision
[65]
2022
ANN
Raman spectra
[47]
2022
Weighted KNN, Trilayered
neural network
Raman spectra
[48]
2022
LDA, MDA, ANN, KNN
Thermal imaging
[49]
2022
CNN—YOLOv3
Colour vision
[66]

Agriculture 2023, 13, 156
11 of 16
However, from the authors’ point of view, the CNN model has high applicability to
detect and classify maturity of FFB compare with others ML models even though ANN
has been around longer and is therefore more established. The ANN model is studied
universally in the maturity classiﬁcation of FFB due to the training input is diversiﬁed. The
feature extraction can be applied to the input neuron as it can transform into a numerical
form. However, CNN is an effective approach for extracting a hierarchical representation
of the input data that is invariant to transformations and scaling. The architecture of CNN
is linked with a series of layers, it consists of convolutional layers, pooling layers, and
fully connected or classiﬁcation layers. The convolutional layer obtains image features by
striding across the input image and producing a feature map. The various ﬁlter generates
different feature maps that serve as feature detectors. To ensure diverse information is
extracted completely, multiple convolutional layers are applied. The pooling layer trims
the dimension of the feature maps and provides invariance to distortion. The classiﬁcation
procedure is carried out via s fully connected layer.
An accurate CNN model allows for performing complex tasks. The model recognises
an object by evaluating a classiﬁer for that speciﬁc object at multiple positions and scales in
a test image. A predicted bounding box will appear in the scene once the target object is
detected. In addition, a deep CNN model can perform detection with numerous classes
of objects. The deep CNN model includes multiple convolutional layers and pooling
layers. The enormous of feature maps could help to identify more features in an image
like edges and lines. Famous pre-train CNN model such as AlexNet [67], ResNet [68], and
DenseNet [69]. The autonomous harvesting system would take this feasibility of the CNN
model to detect others object such as stalk and frond.
Meanwhile, the enhancement of the graphic processing unit (GPU) accelerates the
computer graphics workload to achieve the CNN model operating in real-time. The advent
of “You Only Look Once” (YOLO) proposed by Redmon et al. [70] aims to work on real-time
object detection. YOLO computes multiple bounding boxes and class probabilities for those
boxes are simultaneously predicted by a single neural network for each box. YOLO directly
improves detection performance while training on complete images. Comparing the uni-
ﬁed framework and conventional object identiﬁcation methods offers several advantages.
Hereafter, the application of YOLO in a variety of object detection tasks expanded greatly
when YOLOv3 was introduced. This was later improved by Redmon and Farhadi [71].
The YOLOv3 was also implemented to detect and classify the maturity of FFB [66]. The
result of the YOLOv3 algorithm shows its capability to detect and differentiate the levels of
FFB maturity.
3.4. Readiness for On-Site Application
Most of the methods mentioned earlier are still in the experimental stage and more
studies are being carried out to determine the method’s effectiveness in FFB ripeness
detection. Those methods may be further reﬁned for applications involving detection in
the mill after harvesting or in-ﬁeld at the oil palm plantation. Furthermore, most of the
experiments were conducted within the laboratory setting. This provides a controlled
environment eliminating real-world issues caused by occlusion and a noisy background to
extract the features of FFB or fruitlet. The results of experimental analysis derived from a
perfect condition may not be applicable in the plantation estate. In addition, environmental
factors such as weather and topography present a challenge for the sensor to acquire
important information accurately. Image-based methods have the capability to be applied
in the oil palm estate and mill, as it is feasible because it can be analysed to include or erase
the background noise dealing with image processing methods. From the 12 methods that
have been reviewed, only three have been used for on-site testing which are computer
vision, LiDAR, and inductive sensors. Table 3 summarizes the detection methods conducted
in laboratory and ﬁeld settings.

Agriculture 2023, 13, 156
12 of 16
Table 3. Location of method implemented on classiﬁcation FBB maturity.
Method
Location
Reference
Computer vision
Plantation estate
[4,8,44,45]
LiDAR sensor
Plantation estate
[11,13]
Laboratory and plantation estate
[12]
Near Infrared (NIR)
Laboratory
[17,18]
Optical spectrometer
Laboratory
[46]
Raman spectra
Laboratory
[21,47,48]
Fluorescence sensor
Laboratory
[22]
Inductive sensor
Laboratory and plantation estate
[28]
Laboratory
[29]
Plantation estate
[30]
Laser-light backscattering and
computer vision
Laboratory
[38]
Thermal vision
Laboratory
[39]
Thermal imaging
Laboratory
[40,49]
Fruit battery
Laboratory
[41]
Mill and laboratory
[42]
Fruit battery and computer vision
Laboratory
[43]
Through the research, the authors review the methods to classify the FFB’s maturity
stage. It brings insight into the advantage and constraints of all the methods proposed.
However, to revolute the traditional harvesting process to autonomous in the oil palm
estate. It delivers the harvester and grader job transformation to reduce the workload
and avoid misclassiﬁcation. Detection and classiﬁcation of the FFB become an imperative
role to implement an autonomous harvesting system. The computer vision method is
recommended as it is comprehensive to employ in the system. It does not have constraints
and obligates within a speciﬁc range to extract the features in a ﬁxed scene.
Based on the current research landscape, the most feasible detection system as in the
one that is closest to being ready for deployment in the plantation is the system which
combines colour vision sensing with a CNN classiﬁer. Colour vision sensing has the
advantage of being minimal in cost compared to the LiDAR sensing method since cameras
are common and cheap whereas LiDARs are typically expensive. The cameras also do not
need any additional set up, unlike induction sensors, and they can also operate from a
greater distance. This is why they combine and work so well with CNN algorithms such as
YOLO that can process images with impressive speed, making them suitable for real-time
operation. The potential of this approach is high and can be improved further by expanding
the dataset over time, evolution of CNN algorithms and hyperparameter optimisation.
4. Conclusions
Over the past few decades, traditional methods are still mainly applied to harvest-
ing the FFB. It is valuable to enlighten the FFB harvesting process. Harvesting FFB au-
tonomously could be a possible trend to solve problems such as labour shortages. In this
paper, a method of classifying and detecting FFB ripeness is reviewed. The method of
using colour vision is encouraging to implement in the harvest process. This is because
the system setup is relatively lower cost since no expensive equipment is required. Based
on the review conducted, it is a nondestructive method that will not harm or injure the
fruitlet on FFB through the sensing process. Furthermore, it is highly feasible as it can be
successfully utilised either in the mill or in ﬁeld estate, and it is not restricted to the use
of FFB or fruitlet as a data source for analysis unless the useful colour information can be

Agriculture 2023, 13, 156
13 of 16
extracted. Moreover, the colour vision method can be fully utilised to detect the frond and
stalk as well, since cutting the frond and stalk is part of the tasks in harvesting the FFB.
Today, highly accurate real-time object detection systems can be produced more easily
since the graphic processing unit (GPU) and the artiﬁcial intelligent algorithm required
have advanced greatly. The enhancement of the GPU presents many advantages for
the deep-layer CNN model as it requires advanced GPU to calculate more feature maps
and layers. Moreover, the improved GPU can deal with the massive amount of graphic
information, which allows the deep-learning model to operate at a faster speed. Meanwhile,
the algorithm can be invented in even more layers to ﬁnd out insigniﬁcant features in
the data given. The more features are identiﬁed, the more accurate it can be. In the
end, the YOLO model is recommended because it can be operating accurately under
real-time detection. The YOLO series models have been embedded in many applications
including the agriculture sector. YOLO v3 has also been tested to detect the maturity of
FFB. Therefore, YOLO v4 is introduced to detect the maturity of FFB as it is an upgraded
version of YOLO v3.
There is a wide range of future potential projects in this ﬁeld. One such project is the
combination of AI-based systems with Internet of Things (IoT) systems. For example, in a
future implementation, trees that are found to have ripe FFBs are automatically geotagged,
and their location is shared immediately with the harvesters. This allows for more efﬁcient
harvesting since the harvesters can now know the precise location of the ripe FFB. The big
data generated and stored in the cloud can then be used to produce a predictive model,
which can accurately estimate when certain oil palm trees are expected to bear ripe fruits
again. This can help harvesters to harvest the FFBs when they are at their peak ripeness,
which should then produce the maximum OER.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, methodology, software, validation, formal analysis,
writing—review and editing, visualization, J.W.L. and H.R.R.; investigation, resources, data cu-
ration, writing—original draft preparation, J.W.L.; supervision, project administration, funding
acquisition, H.R.R., L.I.I. and W.Z.W.H. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of
the manuscript.
Funding: This research was funded by UNIVERSITI PUTRA MALAYSIA (Putra Grant, GP-GPB/2021/
9699100).
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
Data Availability Statement: No data are used in the review paper.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
References
1.
Chew, C.L.; Ng, C.Y.; Hong, W.O.; Wu, T.Y.; Lee, Y.Y.; Low, L.E.; Kong, P.S.; Chan, E.S. Improving Sustainability of Palm Oil
Production by Increasing Oil Extraction Rate: A Review. Food Bioprocess Technol. 2021, 14, 573–586. [CrossRef]
2.
Khan, N.; Kamaruddin, M.A.; Sheikh, U.U.; Yusup, Y.; Bakht, M.P. Oil Palm and Machine Learning: Reviewing One Decade of
Ideas, Innovations, Applications, and Gaps. Agriculture 2021, 11, 832. [CrossRef]
3.
Abdullah, M.Z.; Guan, L.C.; Mohamed, A.M.D.; Noor, M.A.M. Color Vision System for Ripeness Inspection Of. J. Food Process.
Preserv. 2002, 26, 213–235. [CrossRef]
4.
Septiarini, A.; Hamdani, H.; Hatta, H.R.; Kasim, A.A. Image-based processing for ripeness classiﬁcation of oil palm fruit. In
Proceedings of the 2019 5th International Conference on Science in Information Technology (ICSITech), Yogyakarta, Indonesia,
23–24 October 2019; pp. 23–26. [CrossRef]
5.
Septiarini, A.; Hamdani, H.; Hatta, H.R.; Anwar, K. Automatic Image Segmentation of Oil Palm Fruits by Applying the
Contour-Based Approach. Sci. Hortic. 2020, 261, 108939. [CrossRef]
6.
Fracarolli, J.A.; Adimari Pavarin, F.F.; Castro, W.; Blasco, J. Computer Vision Applied to Food and Agricultural Products. Rev.
Cienc. Agron. 2020, 51, e20207749. [CrossRef]
7.
Fadilah, N.; Mohamad-Saleh, J.; Halim, Z.A.; Ibrahim, H.; Ali, S.S.S. Intelligent Color Vision System for Ripeness Classiﬁcation of
Oil Palm Fresh Fruit Bunch. Sensors 2012, 12, 14179–14195. [CrossRef]

Agriculture 2023, 13, 156
14 of 16
8.
Shabdin, M.K.; Shariff, A.R.M.; Johari, M.N.A.; Saat, N.K.; Abbas, Z. A Study on the Oil Palm Fresh Fruit Bunch (FFB) Ripeness
Detection by Using Hue, Saturation and Intensity (HSI) Approach. IOP Conf. Ser. Earth Environ. Sci. 2016, 37, 012039. [CrossRef]
9.
Sabri, N.; Ibrahim, Z.; Syahlan, S.; Jamil, N.; Mangshor, N.N.A. Palm Oil Fresh Fruit Bunch Ripeness Grading Identiﬁcation Using
Color Features. J. Fundam. Appl. Sci. 2018, 9 (Suppl. S4), 563. [CrossRef]
10.
Setiawan, A.W.; Prasetya, O.E. Palm Oil Fresh Fruit Bunch Grading System Using Multispectral Image Analysis in HSV. In
Proceedings of the 2020 IEEE International Conference on Informatics, IoT, and Enabling Technologies (ICIoT), Doha, Qatar, 2–5
February 2020; pp. 85–88. [CrossRef]
11.
Dzuljalal, A.; Seri, M. Development of Virescens Fresh Fruit Bunch Ripeness Prediction Using LiDAR for Smart Agriculture. In
Proceedings of the 2021 IEEE Region 10 Symposium, Jeju, Republic of Korea, 23–25 August 2021.
12.
Hashim, F.H.; Mohd Zulkiﬂi, Z.; Raj, T.; Huddin, A.B. A Rapid and Non-Destructive Method in Determining The Ripeness of Oil
Palm Fresh Fruit Bunch (FFB). J. Kejuruter. 2018, 30, 93–101. [CrossRef]
13.
Husin, H.S.; Amar, N.; Bakar Sajak, A.A.; Sallehin Mohd Kassim, M. Distribution Map of Oil Palm Fresh Fruit Bunch Using
LiDAR*. In Proceedings of the 2021 12th International Conference on Information and Communication Systems (ICICS), Valencia,
Spain, 24–26 May 2021; pp. 4–9. [CrossRef]
14.
Setiawan, A.W.; Mengko, R.; Putri, A.P.H.; Danudirdjo, D.; Ananda, A.R. Classiﬁcation of Palm Oil Fresh Fruit Bunch Using
Multiband Optical Sensors. Int. J. Electr. Comput. Eng. 2019, 9, 2386–2393. [CrossRef]
15.
Ben Saeed, O.M.; Sankaran, S.; Shariff, A.R.M.; Shafri, H.Z.M.; Ehsani, R.; Alfatni, M.S.; Hazir, M.H.M. Classiﬁcation of Oil Palm
Fresh Fruit Bunches Based on Their Maturity Using Portable Four-Band Sensor System. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2012, 82, 55–60.
[CrossRef]
16.
Arunkumar, M.; Rajendran, A.; Gunasri, S.; Kowsalya, M.; Krithika, C.K. Non-Destructive Fruit Maturity Detection Methodology—
A Review. Mater. Today Proc. 2021. [CrossRef]
17.
Silalahi, D.D.; Reaño, C.E.; Lansigan, F.P.; Panopio, R.G.; Bantayan, N.C.; Davrieux, F.; Caliman, J.P.; Yuana, Y.Y.; Sudarno. Near
Infrared Spectroscopy: A Rapid and Non-Destructive Method to Assess the Ripeness of Oil Palm (Elaeis Guineensis Jacq.) Fresh
Fruit. J. Near Infrared Spectrosc. 2016, 24, 179–190. [CrossRef]
18.
Silalahi, D.D.; Reaño, C.E.; Lansigan, F.P.; Panopio, R.G.; Bantayan, N.C. Using Genetic Algorithm Neural Network on Near
Infrared Spectral Data for Ripeness Grading of Oil Palm (Elaeis Guineensis Jacq.) Fresh Fruit. Inf. Process. Agric. 2016, 3, 252–261.
[CrossRef]
19.
Trebolazabala, J.; Maguregui, M.; Morillas, H.; de Diego, A.; Madariaga, J.M. Portable Raman Spectroscopy for an In-Situ
Monitoring the Ripening of Tomato (Solanum Lycopersicum) Fruits. Spectrochim. Acta Part A Mol. Biomol. Spectrosc. 2017, 180,
138–143. [CrossRef]
20.
Nekvapil, F.; Brezestean, I.; Barchewitz, D.; Glamuzina, B.; Chi¸s, V.; Cintă Pinzaru, S. Citrus Fruits Freshness Assessment Using
Raman Spectroscopy. Food Chem. 2018, 242, 560–567. [CrossRef]
21.
Raj, T.; Hashim, F.H.; Huddin, A.B.; Hussain, A.; Ibrahim, M.F.; Abdul, P.M. Classiﬁcation of Oil Palm Fresh Fruit Maturity Based
on Carotene Content from Raman Spectra. Sci. Rep. 2021, 11, 18315. [CrossRef]
22.
Hazir, M.H.M.; Shariff, A.R.M.; Amiruddin, M.D. Determination of Oil Palm Fresh Fruit Bunch Ripeness-Based on Flavonoids
and Anthocyanin Content. Ind. Crops Prod. 2012, 36, 466–475. [CrossRef]
23.
Hazir, M.H.M.; Shariff, A.R.M.; Amiruddin, M.D.; Ramli, A.R.; Iqbal Saripan, M. Oil Palm Bunch Ripeness Classiﬁcation Using
Fluorescence Method. J. Food Eng. 2012, 113, 534–540. [CrossRef]
24.
Yeow, Y.K.; Abbas, Z.; Khalid, K. Application of Microwave Moisture Sensor for Determination of Oil Palm Fruit Ripeness. Meas.
Sci. Rev. 2010, 10, 7–14. [CrossRef]
25.
You, K.Y.; Wee, F.H.; Lee, Y.S.; Abbas, Z.; Lee, K.Y.; Cheng, E.M.; Khe, C.S.; Jamlos, M.F. A Review of Oil Palm Fruit Ripeness
Monitoring Using Microwave Methods in Malaysia. IOP Conf. Ser. Mater. Sci. Eng. 2020, 767, 012007. [CrossRef]
26.
Harun, N.H.; Misron, N.; Sidek, R.M.; Aris, I.; Ahmad, D.; Wakiwaka, H.; Tashiro, K. Investigations on a Novel Inductive Concept
Frequency Method for the Grading of Oil Palm Fresh Fruit Bunches. Sensors 2013, 13, 2254–2266. [CrossRef]
27.
Harun, N.H.; Misron, N.; Sidek, R.M.; Aris, I.; Wakiwaka, H.; Tashiro, K. Dual Resonant Frequencies Effects on an Induction-Based
Oil Palm Fruit Sensor. Sensors 2014, 14, 21923–21940. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
28.
Misron, N.; Aliteh, N.A.; Harun, N.H.; Tashiro, K.; Sato, T.; Wakiwaka, H. Relative Estimation of Water Content for Flat-Type
Inductive-Based Oil Palm Fruit Maturity Sensor. Sensors 2017, 17, 52. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
29.
Aliteh, N.A.; Misron, N.; Aris, I.; Sidek, R.M.; Tashiro, K.; Wakiwaka, H. Triple Flat-Type Inductive-Based Oil Palm Fruit Maturity
Sensor. Sensors 2018, 18, 2496. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
30.
Sinambela, R.; Mandang, T.; Subrata, I.D.M.; Hermawan, W. Application of an Inductive Sensor System for Identifying Ripeness
and Forecasting Harvest Time of Oil Palm. Sci. Hortic. 2020, 265, 109231. [CrossRef]
31.
Mozaffari, M.; Sadeghi, S.; Aseﬁ, N. Prediction of the Quality Properties and Maturity of Apricot by Laser Light Backscattering
Imaging. Postharvest Biol. Technol. 2022, 186, 111842. [CrossRef]
32.
Zulkiﬂi, N.; Hashim, N.; Abdan, K.; Hanaﬁ, M. Application of Laser-Induced Backscattering Imaging for Predicting and
Classifying Ripening Stages of “Berangan” Bananas. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2019, 160, 100–107. [CrossRef]
33.
Anderson, G.C.; de Carvalho, P.F.d.A.; Roberto, B.A.J.; Sérgio, Y.M.; Luís, M.N.G. Determination of Macaw Fruit Harvest Period
by Biospeckle Laser Technique. African J. Agric. Res. 2017, 12, 674–683. [CrossRef]

Agriculture 2023, 13, 156
15 of 16
34.
Lockman, N.A.; Hashim, N.; Onwude, D.I. Laser-Based Imaging for Cocoa Pods Maturity Detection. Food Bioprocess Technol. 2019,
12, 1928–1937. [CrossRef]
35.
Utom, S.L.; Mohamad, E.J.; Ameran, H.L.M.; Kadir, H.A.; Muji, S.Z.M.; Rahim, R.A.; Pusppanathan, J. Non-Destructive Oil Palm
Fresh Fruit Bunch (FFB) Grading Method Using Optical Sensor. Int. J. Integr. Eng. 2018, 10, 35–39. [CrossRef]
36.
Babazadeh, S.; Ahmadi Moghaddam, P.; Sabatyan, A.; Shariﬁan, F. Classiﬁcation of Potato Tubers Based on Solanine Toxicant
Using Laser-Induced Light Backscattering Imaging. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2016, 129, 1–8. [CrossRef]
37.
Mohd Ali, M.; Hashim, N.; Bejo, S.K.; Shamsudin, R. Laser-Induced Backscattering Imaging for Classiﬁcation of Seeded and
Seedless Watermelons. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2017, 140, 311–316. [CrossRef]
38.
Mohd Ali, M.; Hashim, N.; Abdul Hamid, A.S. Combination of Laser-Light Backscattering Imaging and Computer Vision for
Rapid Determination of Oil Palm Fresh Fruit Bunches Maturity. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2020, 169, 105235. [CrossRef]
39.
Fauziah, W.K.; Makky, M.; Santosa; Cherie, D. Thermal Vision of Oil Palm Fruits under Difference Ripeness Quality. IOP Conf.
Ser. Earth Environ. Sci. 2021, 644, 012044. [CrossRef]
40.
Makky, M.; Cherie, D. Pre-Harvest Oil Palm FFB Nondestructive Evaluation Method Using Thermal-Imaging Device. IOP Conf.
Ser. Earth Environ. Sci. 2021, 757, 012003. [CrossRef]
41.
Minakata, K.; Tashiro, K.; Wakiwaka, H.; Kobayashi, K.; Misrom, N.; Aliteh, N.A.; Nagata, H. Proposal of Fruit Battery Method for
Estimating Oil Palm Ripeness. In Proceedings of the 2018 12th International Conference on Sensing Technology (ICST), Limerick,
Ireland, 4–6 December 2018; pp. 399–402. [CrossRef]
42.
Misron, N.; Azhar, N.S.K.; Hamidon, M.N.; Aris, I.; Tashiro, K.; Nagata, H. Effect of Charging Parameter on Fruit Battery-Based
Oil Palm Maturity Sensor. Micromachines 2020, 11, 806. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
43.
Aliteh, N.A.; Minakata, K.; Tashiro, K.; Wakiwaka, H.; Kobayashi, K.; Nagata, H.; Misron, N. Fruit Battery Method for Oil Palm
Fruit Ripeness Sensor and Comparison with Computer Vision Method. Sensors 2020, 20, 637. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
44.
Septiarini, A.; Hatta, H.R.; Hamdani, H.; Oktavia, A.; Kasim, A.A.; Suyanto, S. Maturity Grading of Oil Palm Fresh Fruit Bunches
Based on a Machine Learning Approach. In Proceedings of the 2020 5th International Conference on Informatics and Computing
(ICIC), Gorontalo, Indonesia, 24 December 2020; pp. 19–22. [CrossRef]
45.
Sabri, N.; Ibrahim, Z.; Isa, D. Evaluation of Color Models for Palm Oil Fresh Fruit Bunch Ripeness Classiﬁcation. Indones. J. Electr.
Eng. Comput. Sci. 2018, 11, 549–557. [CrossRef]
46.
Tuerxun, A.; Mohamed Shariff, A.R.; Janius, R.; Abbas, Z.; Mahdiraji, G.A. Oil Palm Fresh Fruit Bunches Maturity Prediction by
Using Optical Spectrometer. IOP Conf. Ser. Earth Environ. Sci. 2020, 540, 012085. [CrossRef]
47.
Tzuan, G.T.H.; Hashim, F.H.; Raj, T.; Baseri Huddin, A.; Sajab, M.S. Oil Palm Fruits Ripeness Classiﬁcation Based on the
Characteristics of Protein, Lipid, Carotene, and Guanine/Cytosine from the Raman Spectra. Plants 2022, 11, 1936. [CrossRef]
[PubMed]
48.
Azmi, M.H.I.M.; Hashim, F.H.; Huddin, A.B.; Sajab, M.S. Correlation Study between the Organic Compounds and Ripening
Stages of Oil Palm Fruitlets Based on the Raman Spectra. Sensors 2022, 22, 7091. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
49.
Zolfagharnassab, S.; Shariff, A.R.B.M.; Ehsani, R.; Jaafar, H.Z.; Aris, I.B. Classiﬁcation of Oil Palm Fresh Fruit Bunches Based on
Their Maturity Using Thermal Imaging Techniques. Agriculture 2022, 12, 1779. [CrossRef]
50.
Fadilah, N.; Saleh, J.M.; Ibrahim, H.; Halim, Z.A. Oil Palm Fresh Fruit Bunch Ripeness Classiﬁcation Using Artiﬁcial Neural
Network. In Proceedings of the 2012 4th International Conference on Intelligent and Advanced Systems (ICIAS2012), Kuala
Lumpur, Malaysia, 12–14 June 2012; Volume 1, pp. 18–21. [CrossRef]
51.
Fadilah, N.; Mohamad-Saleh, J. Color Feature Extraction of Oil Palm Fresh Fruit Bunch Image for Ripeness Classiﬁcation. In
Proceedings of the 13th International Conference on Applied Computer and Applied Computational Science (ACACOS’14),
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, 23–25 April 2014; pp. 51–55.
52.
Bensaeed, O.M.; Shariff, A.M.; Mahmud, A.B.; Shafri, H.; Alfatni, M. Oil Palm Fruit Grading Using a Hyperspectral Device and
Machine Learning Algorithm. IOP Conf. Ser. Earth Environ. Sci. 2014, 20, 012017. [CrossRef]
53.
Alfatni, M.S.M.; Shariff, A.R.M.; Abdullah, M.Z.; Marhaban, M.H.; Shaﬁe, S.B.; Bamiruddin, M.D.; Saaed, O.M.B. Oil Palm Fresh
Fruit Bunch Ripeness Classiﬁcation Based on Rule-Based Expert System of ROI Image Processing Method Results. IOP Conf. Ser.
Earth Environ. Sci. 2014, 20, 012018. [CrossRef]
54.
Taparugssanagorn, A.; Siwamogsatham, S.; Pomalaza-Ráez, C. A Non-Destructive Oil Palm Ripeness Recognition System Using
Relative Entropy. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2015, 118, 340–349. [CrossRef]
55.
Patkar, G.; Anjaneyulu, G.S.G.N.; Mouli, P.V.S.S.R.C. Palm Fruit Harvester Algorithm for Elaeis Guineensis Oil Palm Fruit
Grading Using UML. In Proceedings of the 2015 IEEE International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Computing
Research (ICCIC), Madurai, India, 10–12 December 2015. [CrossRef]
56.
Alfatni, M.S.M.; Mohamed Shariff, A.R.; Bejo, S.K.; Ben Saaed, O.M.; Mustapha, A. Real-Time Oil Palm FFB Ripeness Grading
System Based on ANN, KNN and SVM Classiﬁers. IOP Conf. Ser. Earth Environ. Sci. 2018, 169, 012067. [CrossRef]
57.
Fahmi, F.; Palti, H.; Emerson, S.; Suherman, S. Oil Palm Fresh Fruit Bunch Ripeness Classiﬁcation Using Back Propagation and
Learning Vector Quantization. IOP Conf. Ser. Mater. Sci. Eng. 2018, 434, 012066. [CrossRef]
58.
Ibrahim, Z.; Sabri, N.; Isa, D. Palm Oil Fresh Fruit Bunch Ripeness Grading Recognition Using Convolutional Neural Network.
J. Telecommun. Electron. Comput. Eng. 2018, 10, 109–113.
59.
Alfatni, M.S.M.; Mohamed Shariff, A.R.; Ben Saaed, O.M.; Albhbah, A.M.; Mustapha, A. Colour Feature Extraction Methods for
Real Time System of Oil Palm Fresh Fruit Bunch Maturity Grading. IOP Conf. Ser. Earth Environ. Sci. 2020, 540, 012092. [CrossRef]

Agriculture 2023, 13, 156
16 of 16
60.
Herman, H.; Susanto, A.; Cenggoro, T.W.; Suharjito, S.; Pardamean, B. Oil Palm Fruit Image Ripeness Classiﬁcation with
Computer Vision Using Deep Learning and Visual Attention. J. Telecommun. Electron. Comput. Eng. 2020, 12, 21–27.
61.
Septiarini, A.; Sunyoto, A.; Hamdani, H.; Kasim, A.A.; Utaminingrum, F.; Hatta, H.R. Machine Vision for the Maturity Classiﬁca-
tion of Oil Palm Fresh Fruit Bunches Based on Color and Texture Features. Sci. Hortic. 2021, 286, 110245. [CrossRef]
62.
Melidawati; Cherie, D.; Fahmy, K.; Makky, M. Non Destructive Evaluation Quality of Oil Palm Fresh Fruit Bunch (FFB) (Elaeis
Guineensis Jack) Based on Optical Properties Using Artiﬁcial Neural Network (ANN). IOP Conf. Ser. Earth Environ. Sci. 2021,
644 012032. [CrossRef]
63.
Suharjito; Elwirehardja, G.N.; Prayoga, J.S. Oil Palm Fresh Fruit Bunch Ripeness Classiﬁcation on Mobile Devices Using Deep
Learning Approaches. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2021, 188, 106359. [CrossRef]
64.
Patkar, G.; Morajkar, S. Feature Selection Approach for Oil Palm Fruit Grading Expert System. In Proceedings of the 6th
International Conference on Recent Trends on Electronics, Information, Communication & Technology (RTEICT), Bangalore,
India, 27–28 August 2021; pp. 670–674. [CrossRef]
65.
Junos, M.H.; Mohd Khairuddin, A.S.; Thannirmalai, S.; Dahari, M. An Optimized YOLO-Based Object Detection Model for Crop
Harvesting System. IET Image Process. 2021, 15, 2112–2125. [CrossRef]
66.
Selvam, N.A.M.B.; Ahmad, Z.; Mohtar, I.A. Real Time Ripe Palm Oil Bunch Detection Using YOLO V3 Algorithm. In Proceedings
of the 2021 IEEE 19th Student Conference on Research and Development (SCOReD), Kota Kinabalu, Malaysia, 23–25 November
2021; pp. 323–328.
67.
Krizhevsky, A. One Weird Trick for Parallelizing Convolutional Neural Networks. arXiv 2014, arXiv:1404.5997.
68.
He, K.; Zhang, X.; Ren, S.; Sun, J. Deep Residual Learning for Image Recognition. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), Las Vegas, NV, USA, 27–30 June 2016; pp. 770–778. [CrossRef]
69.
Iandola, F.; Moskewicz, M.; Karayev, S.; Girshick, R.; Darrell, T.; Keutzer, K. DenseNet: Implementing Efﬁcient ConvNet
Descriptor Pyramids. arXiv 2014, arXiv:1404.1869.
70.
Redmon, J.; Divvala, S.; Girshick, R.; Farhadi, A. You Only Look Once: Uniﬁed, Real-Time Object Detection. In Proceedings of
the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), Las Vegas, NV, USA, 27–30 June 2016; pp. 779–788.
[CrossRef]
71.
Redmon, J.; Farhadi, A. YOLOv3: An Incremental Improvement. arXiv 2018, arXiv:1804.02767.
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
