3D shape sensing and deep learning-based segmentation of strawberries
Justin Le Louëdeca,∗, Grzegorz Cielniaka
aLincoln Centre for Autonomous Systems, University of Lincoln, Brayford Way, Brayford Pool, Lincoln LN6 7TS, United Kingdom
A R T I C L E I N F O
Keywords:
3D shape sensing
semantic segmentation for agriculture
machine learning architectures
simulation
A B S T R A C T
Automation and robotisation of the agricultural sector are seen as a viable solution to socio-economic
challenges faced by this industry. This technology often relies on intelligent perception systems pro-
viding information about crops, plants and the entire environment. The challenges faced by traditional
2D vision systems can be addressed by modern 3D vision systems which enable straightforward local-
isation of objects, size and shape estimation, or handling of occlusions. So far, the use of 3D sensing
was mainly limited to indoor or structured environments. In this paper, we evaluate modern sensing
technologies including stereo and time-of-ﬂight cameras for 3D perception of shape in agriculture and
study their usability for segmenting out soft fruit from background based on their shape. To that end,
we propose a novel 3D deep neural network which exploits the organised nature of information origi-
nating from the camera-based 3D sensors. We demonstrate the superior performance and eﬃciency of
the proposed architecture compared to the state-of-the-art 3D networks. Through a simulated study,
we also show the potential of the 3D sensing paradigm for object segmentation in agriculture and pro-
vide insights and analysis of what shape quality is needed and expected for further analysis of crops.
The results of this work should encourage researchers and companies to develop more accurate and
robust 3D sensing technologies to assure their wider adoption in practical agricultural applications.
1. Introduction
Modern agriculture is facing serious socio-economic chal-
lenges in its pursuit of sustainable food production. In par-
ticular, the shrinking labour force, caused by ageing popu-
lations, restrictions on migration or changing aspirations of
agricultural workers, is causing major concern. Automation
and robotisation of the sector are seen as a viable solution to
this problem but requires several technical challenges to be
solved to be successful Duckett et al. (2018).
One of the most important components of any automated
agricultural technology is a reliable perception system pro-
viding information about crops, plants and the entire envi-
ronment Mavridou et al. (2019). For example, a vision sys-
tem for detecting strawberry fruit can be used to monitor
plant health, for yield forecasting but also for guiding a robotic
arm picking individual fruit From et al. (2018). Thanks to re-
cent advances in 3D sensing technology and rapidly growing
data-driven algorithms, the 3D vision has attracted consider-
able attention in recent years Dai et al. (2017). Compared to
2D images, 3D information provides additional depth cues
critical for estimating the precise location and assessing the
shape properties of various objects in the environment. So
far, the main focus in the 3D vision community has been
centred around benchmark datasets captured in controlled
environments with large and rigid objects and fairly stable
lighting conditions (e.g. Armeni et al. (2017)). Although
the preliminary deployment of 3D technology in agriculture
has been reported Vázquez-Arellano et al. (2016), only the
sensing part was considered and therefore it is still unclear
what are the main limitations of this technology operating
∗Corresponding author
jlelouedec@lincoln.ac.uk (J.L. Louëdec);
gcielniak@lincoln.ac.uk (G. Cielniak)
ORCID(s): 0000-0001-5387-9512 (J.L. Louëdec); 0000-0002-6299-8465
(G. Cielniak)
in realistic scenarios. In particular, the eﬃciency of these
sensing techniques to render shape information of the fruits
and plants is of primary interest. The prior work on strawber-
ries He et al. (2017); Ishikawa et al. (2018); Nagamatsu et al.
(2021), considered mostly 2D images for analysis and focus-
ing on the colour cue. Being able to obtain reliable 3D shape
information from the ﬁeld is a necessity for non-destructive
and in situ crop analysis undertaken by robotic technology
developers, agronomists, biologists and breeders.
In this paper, we propose a study assessing the usefulness
of the 3D shape information for horticultural produce grow-
ing in real farms, with semantic segmentation as a measure-
ment of its importance and quality. The challenges posed
by such a scenario include variable lighting conditions, re-
ﬂections, occlusions, the non-rigid structure of the straw-
berry plants and the relatively small size of the fruit. Whilst
the main focus of our work is on strawberry fruit, we also
consider alternative crops in our analysis to highlight these
challenges. Since the current 3D sensing technology has not
been deployed widely in such scenarios and most of the mod-
ern machine learning algorithms were designed and trained
speciﬁcally for large and rigid objects, our study aims to as-
sess the usefulness and limitations of the sensing methods to
render and utilise 3D shapes in agricultural scenarios. The
paper also addresses the problem of an apparent lack of the
existing public datasets with realistic 3D representations in
agricultural domain which prevents fair comparisons and de-
velopment of methods for this application area. In addition
to experiments on real datasets, we propose the use of re-
alistic simulation as a benchmarking tool for the proposed
method similarly to Tian et al. (2018).
In particular, the contributions of this work are as fol-
lows:
• Evaluation of the current 3D sensing technology, in-
cluding time-of-ﬂight and stereo cameras, for 3D shape
Le Louëdec, Cielniak: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 1 of 14
arXiv:2111.13663v1  [cs.CV]  26 Nov 2021

3D shape sensing and deep learning-based segmentation of strawberries
sensing of soft fruit and comparison to other crops
highlighting their unique shape properties;
• A novel deep network architecture designed for accu-
rate and eﬃcient semantic segmentation in 3D utilis-
ing as input points together with surface normal infor-
mation;
• A realistic simulation of the soft fruit farm and 3D sen-
sor modelling the surface reﬂectance of the objects,
which is used as a reference point for evaluation of
the existing 3D sensing technologies;
• Evaluation of the potential of the sensed 3D shape for
recognising small objects such as soft fruit in cluttered
outdoor scenes.
This paper builds on our initial results reported in Le Louedec
et al. (2020a) which compared two competing 3D sensing
technologies for the task of soft fruit detection. The current
work introduces a thorough evaluation of the 3D sensing in
real and controlled conditions, a scrutiny of the 3D shape
sensing used for object segmentation in agriculture through
the use of a simulated scenario and deployment of the supe-
rior machine learning architecture exploiting the organised
nature of the 3D data originating from the evaluated sensors.
2. Related work
2.1. 3D sensing
Recent advances in 3D sensing technology and data-driven
algorithms have resulted in a growing attention of the re-
search community to the development of 3D vision systems Dai
et al. (2017). In contrast to 2D images, 3D information pro-
vides directly the depth cues which are critical for estimat-
ing the precise location and assessing the shape properties
of objects. Currently, the most popular 3D capturing de-
vices are stereo cameras, time-of-ﬂight (ToF) devices and
LiDAR range ﬁnders (e.g. He and Chen (2018); Alenyà et al.
(2014)). The stereo cameras use a pair of imaging sensors
and calculate the correspondence between the two simulta-
neously captured images for estimating the depth. The stereo
cameras based on visible spectrum require very stable light-
ing conditions and are therefore limited to selected indoor
applications. To improve the robustness in less controlled
conditions, the recent 3D stereo devices use infra-red sen-
sors together with a projected pattern for improving disparity
calculation in low-textured scenarios Halmetschlager-Funek
et al. (2018). On the other hand, the time-of-ﬂight devices
are based on emitting pulsating infra-red light for illuminat-
ing the scene and measuring the phase diﬀerence between
the original and reﬂected pulses for estimating the distance.
This sensing principle provides more accurate depth esti-
mates when compared to the stereo sensors. Similar prin-
ciple is used in LiDAR, which relies on a focused laser ray,
resulting in the improved range and distance estimation com-
pared to camera-based solutions. The low resolution or long
acquisition time, however, are typically limiting the LiDAR’s
use for capturing and mapping large environments Wang et al.
(2019a) rendering them unsuitable for shape reconstruction
of smaller objects such as agrcilutural crop.
Both stereo vision and ToF sensors operate in infra-red
spectrum which in outdoor environments is highly aﬀected
by the natural variation of the infra-red light from the sun.
In the agricultural domain, this issue is further ampliﬁed by
low absorption and high reﬂectiveness of plant parts such
as leaves or fruit Kazmi et al. (2014) together with the rela-
tively small size of the considered objects Le Louedec et al.
(2020a). The issues with high reﬂectiveness tend to be more
pronounced in stereo-based cameras aﬀected by poor corre-
spondence matching. One particular study highlighted this
issue with strawberries which are particularly reﬂective in
the infra-red spectrum Wlodarska et al. (2019); Liu et al.
(2014a).
2.2. Deep learning for 3D information
The core of machine learning methods using deep net-
works is applied to standard images, based on 2D convolu-
tions which can be realised eﬃciently. The convolution op-
erations in 3D require discretisation of space into so-called
voxels, which is typically associated with some loss of infor-
mation, large memory requirements and expensive compu-
tation rendering them unusable for most real-life scenarios.
3D processing using Deep Learning has been revolutionised
by PointNet Qi et al. (2017a) and subsequently by its im-
proved variant PointNet++ Qi et al. (2017b). The PointNet
architecture can be directly applied to a point cloud, through
a segmentation/grouping of points in space using clustering
algorithms. The basic PointNet architecture has been used
to develop further improvements such as PointSIFT Jiang
et al. (2018) or PointCNN Li et al. (2018) leading to better
discriminatory abilities but suﬀering from higher computa-
tional demands and not scaling well to real-time applications
in realistic scenarios. The limitations of the PointNet archi-
tecture for agricultural scenarios which are characterised by
noisy, cluttered and complex scenes were highlighted in our
previous work Le Louedec et al. (2020a).
The information provided by the 3D camera-based sen-
sors is organised into a regular grid which can be exploited
for an eﬃcient implementation of the convolutions. Li (2017)
chose to represent the information from the point cloud in a
grid and encoded occupancy with a simple Boolean value.
Such an approach allows for using standard 2D CNN archi-
tectures which demonstrated very good performance in ob-
ject detection for autonomous driving. Other work Wang
et al. (2019b) makes the use of depth as a way to process
spatial information. However depth does not encapsulate 3D
shape information completely and by multiplying the num-
ber of neural networks by the number of inputs (3 inputs:
RGB, depth and bird eye view representation), they reduce
the eﬃciency and create scaling problems with higher reso-
lutions of images.
In previous work, we have demonstrated the suitability
of using the standard CNN architectures in 3D crop detec-
tion systems for robotic harvesters Le Louedec et al. (2020b)
using points and surface normals, reducing the network size
Le Louëdec, Cielniak: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 2 of 14

3D shape sensing and deep learning-based segmentation of strawberries
and using directly shape and spatial information easily com-
puted without learning. Such idea can be found in Rab-
bani et al. (2006), where local surface normals and curvature
combined with points connectivity allows segmentation of
point cloud parts.
2.3. 3D vision and shape analysis in agriculture
The majority of recent 3D vision algorithms and bench-
marks were designed for indoor environments such as oﬃces
or residential rooms with large and rigid objects and fairly
stable lighting conditions Dai et al. (2017); Armeni et al.
(2017). When applied to an agricultural context in outdoor
scenarios, however, these methods struggle to achieve sat-
isfactory results Le Louedec et al. (2020a), due to the noisy
and sparse character of the 3D data originating from popular
oﬀ-the-shelf RGBD sensors and issues with sensing in infra-
read spectrum as described above. In agricultural applica-
tions, 3D information can provide important object charac-
teristics including crop size, shape or location
Vázquez-Arellano et al. (2016). The most common approach
to recognise such objects is based on a combination of 2D
images for crop segmentation and detection and 3D infor-
mation for augmenting the shape and location information.
For example, Lehnert et al. (2018) describes a perception
system for harvesting sweet peppers. After scanning and re-
constructing the scene using a robotic arm, the colour infor-
mation together with point cloud is used to detect the pepper.
The 3D projection of the segmented peduncle is then used
to estimate a pose and the optimal grasping/cutting point.
Barnea et al. (2016) also presents a perception system for
pepper harvesting but uses a colour agnostic method to de-
tect fruit using depth information provided by RGBD cam-
eras for localisation. By using highlights in the image, and
3D plane-reﬂective symmetries, the system is able to detect
pepper fruit based on shape, in heavily occluded situations.
Yoshida et al. (2018) use RGBD cameras and a two-level res-
olution voxelisation of the 3D space to detect tomato pedun-
cles and the optimal cutting point for harvesting. The regions
corresponding to tomatoes are ﬁrst identiﬁed in the lower
resolution, whilst dense voxelisation is used for the selected
tomato regions to establish the optimal cutting points on the
peduncle. A pure 3D crop detection system was proposed in
Kusumam et al. (2017a) for real-time detection of broccoli
in the ﬁeld which relied on hand-crafted features and SVM
classiﬁer. The suitability of using CNN architectures for the
same application was later investigated in Le Louedec et al.
(2020b) with the superior results reported.
The shape of fruit or other crop is very important in plant
breeding programmes as explained in Nagamatsu et al. (2021)
where phenotypic trait were identiﬁed with visual/genomic
association. The shape information can be inferred from
RGB images and/or depth images captured from RGBD cam-
eras. In Lin et al. (2021) the author propose to use RGB im-
ages for a prior segmentation before using the point clouds
of the fruit and branches and ﬁtting spheres and cylinders
using the RANSAC algorithm to reconstruct the plant. Su
et al. (2018) presents a potato quality assessment system re-
lying on 3D shape analysis, using a depth map captured in
controlled light conditions. In li et al. (2017) the focus is
on assessing the shape of rice seed, with a high-precision
laser scanner and the fusion of multiple point clouds. In
more recent work Haque et al. (2021), an analysis of shape
and quality for sweet potatoes is proposed, by capturing near
infra-red and RGB images of the objects moving on a con-
veyor belt. The images are then used for 3D reconstruction
and further shape analysis.A single fruit measurement sys-
tem, by rotating a fruit on a platform to capture multiple
point clouds using an RGBD camera and registering them
into a single one for further morphological measurements is
proposed in Wang and Chen (2020) . The shape identiﬁca-
tion and attributes of strawberries have been so far limited
to colour 2D images Ishikawa et al. (2018).
In ﬁeld conditions, colour and 3D information can be use
together to help improve the segmentation and recognition
as in Wu et al. (2020) where an approach to combine colour
and 3D geometry features is proposed to eliminate regions
without fruit from point clouds to improve their localisation.
In Liu et al. (2020) we see a review of various hyper-spectral
and 3D sensing methods to obtain precise plant phenotyp-
ing traits. it is however concluded that close-range hyper-
spectral sensing techniques still needed lots of improvements
due to poor precision and diﬃculties with plants such as non
lambertians properties and self shadowed surfaces.
In contrast to the prior work, we present a thorough eval-
uation of the two most popular 3D sensing technologies ap-
plied to shape sensing of small agricultural objects such as
soft fruit which pose particular challenges due to their size
and high reﬂectance, together with a new approach to organ-
ised point cloud processing, using a CNN directly applied on
the points coordinates and surface normals, placing a bigger
emphasis on localisation, shape, and gemoetric structures.
This approach addresses the problem encountered with un-
organised approaches Qi et al. (2017b), with faster inference
times and improved feature extraction with facilitated point
clustering thanks to the grid organisation of the features.
3. Method
Our methodology focuses on the study of shape informa-
tion available through two diﬀerent oﬀ-the-shelf 3D sensing
technologies, and their usefulness for semantic segmenta-
tion of 3D point clouds in realistic agricultural scenarios.
For the 3D segmentation task, we propose a novel deep net-
work architecture which utilises the organised nature of in-
formation originating from the camera-based 3D sensors.
The proposed segmentation algorithm is based on a clas-
sic auto-encoder architecture which uses 3D points together
with surface normals and improved convolution operations.
We propose using Transpose-convolutions, to improve lo-
calisation information of the features in the organised grid.
We also present a set of baseline methods including a state-
of-the-art 3D architecture Qi et al. (2017b) and a 2D-based
method Badrinarayanan et al. (2017) used as a "measuring
stick" and ultimate segmentation performance which should
Le Louëdec, Cielniak: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 3 of 14

3D shape sensing and deep learning-based segmentation of strawberries
stereo
ToF
Figure 1: The selected 3D sensing devices: stereo cam-
era Intel RealSense D435 (left) and ToF device PicoZense
DCAM710 (right).
be aimed at with good 3D shape information. We also de-
scribe a realistic simulation of the soft fruit farm and 3D sen-
sor modelling the surface reﬂectance of the objects, which is
used as a reference point for evaluation of the shape informa-
tion from real devices.
3.1. 3D sensing
In this paper, we choose stereo and time-of-ﬂight sensing
technologies for sensing the shape of the strawberries in their
natural growing conditions. The two selected cameras for
evaluation are Intel RealSense D435 representing an infra-
red stereo sensor and time-of-ﬂight Pico Zense DCAM710
(see Fig. 1). Both cameras oﬀer similar colour sensing ca-
pabilities with both featuring 1920 px × 1080 px RGB im-
age resolution. The depth sensor of the RealSense device
features 1280 px × 720 px resolution which is almost double
compared to the Pico Zense camera (640 px × 480 px). The
depth FOV for RealSense is 86° × 57° which covers slightly
larger area than Pico Zense (69° × 51°). The RealSense de-
vice uses a stereo infra-red sensor pair together with the pro-
jected pattern for depth estimation allowing sensing in range
of 0.1 m to 10.0 m. The sensing range of the Pico Zense
depth sensor is 0.2 m to 5.0 m. In our application, the maxi-
mum sensing distance is restricted to 0.8 m due to the small
size of the strawberry fruit which is within the sensing range
of both sensors.
All of these sensors provide depth information which
can be de-projected into point clouds for a complete spa-
tial information (x,y,z). We can however keep the organisa-
tion of points given by their depth map indices reducing the
complexity of clustering the points. These organised point
clouds can be then used as inputs to our segmentation algo-
rithms, and other easily computed (or captured) features can
be added to the points coordinates, such as their correspond-
ing surface normals or colour. We present our proposed seg-
mentation method in the following section, which is using
the data captured by such devices.
3.2. CNN3D for organised point clouds
For the semantic segmentation task, we chose a clas-
sic auto-encoder architecture inspired by U-Net Ronneberger
et al. (2015), with the encoder part responsible for extracting
relevant features and the decoder part for transforming them
into the correct class prediction. We use skip connections
between the encoding and decoding part of the architecture
to make use of multi-scale features in the segmentation pro-
cess 1 (see Tab. 2). The input is composed of 6 features
({X,Y,Z} position of each 3D point and their 3-component
normals { ˆX, ˆY,ˆZ} as presented in Fig. 6), which are com-
pressed into a 512 × 푊× 퐻feature map in the latent space
of the network, before being decoded into the segmentation
mask. We use a standard VGG16 architecture, saving the
feature maps and pooling indices at the end of four diﬀer-
ent convolution blocks. We use these indices in the decoder
part of the network to up-sample the feature maps. Using
un-MaxPool instead of traditional up-sampling, allows us to
have a per point propagation of features, instead of interpo-
lation in the grid. The saved feature maps are added to de-
coded feature maps in the decoder, to introduce multi-scale
features and improve the extraction of point clusters corre-
sponding to strawberries. The decoder blocs are inspired by
the one proposed in SegNet Badrinarayanan et al. (2017),
where each convolutions are followed by BatchNormalisa-
tions and ReLu. Due to the compact nature of the CNNs, the
inference time exceeds real time. A similar architecture was
used in our previous work for the problem of 3D broccoli de-
tection Le Louedec et al. (2020b). This architecture diﬀers
from other 3D segmentation techniques by using 2D convo-
lutions directly over organised 3D information and the use
of multi-scale feature maps combination approach. Using an
organised version of the point cloud, makes the clustering of
points faster and more eﬃcient than methods such as Point-
Net. Indeed points from the same object will be in the same
region of the grid, which is faster and easier to run through
than ﬁnding points directly in space. We use feature maps
at diﬀerent stages of their encoding (diﬀerent size and scale
of features), in the decoding part of the architecture. This
allows us to take in consideration diﬀerent size and scale of
features and objects to separate strawberries from the back-
ground. We can also add colour as an extra feature to the in-
put resulting in 9 dimensions {X,Y,Z, ˆX, ˆY,ˆZ,R,G,B} (points
coordinates, normal and colour). We use colours as a third
feature input as a mean to compare the importance of shape
and colour information for the segmentation of strawberries.
For training we use as a loss function a weighted Cross en-
tropy loss, with the Adam optimiser Kingma and Ba (2014).
We use the percentage of points belonging to strawberries
in each point clouds to compute the weight for each classes
used with Cross entropy loss. We use the same training strat-
egy to train the baselines architectures.
3.3. Baseline architectures
We use a modiﬁed PointNet++ architecture Qi et al. (2017b)
as the 3D baseline for comparisons to CNN3D. The archi-
tecture can process point clouds directly by grouping points
using algorithms such as K-Nearest Neighbours (KNN) or
ball query before applying simple convolutions on features
from these clusters. PointNet++ can be separated into two
main layers. First the set Abstraction layer (SA), extracts fea-
tures from the point cloud by considering for each point their
neighbourhood using a predeﬁned radius. Secondly the Fea-
1We provide the code for all the methods at : https://github.com/
lelouedec/PhD_3DPerception/
Le Louëdec, Cielniak: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 4 of 14

3D shape sensing and deep learning-based segmentation of strawberries
Encoder
Input : Points coord. + Normals
6-conv3-64
64-conv3-64
MaxPool-2-2
64-conv3-128
128-conv3-128
MaxPool-2-2
128-conv3-256
256-conv3-256
256-conv3-256
MaxPool-2-2
512-conv3-512
512-conv3-512
512-conv3-512
MaxPool-2-2
512-conv3-512
512-conv3-512
512-conv3-512
Decoder
Output: Point classes pred.
64-Tconv3-2
64-Tconv3-64
UnMaxPool-2-2
128-Tconv3-64
128-Tconv3-128
UnMaxPool-2-2
256-Tconv3-128
256-Tconv3-256
256-Tconv3-256
UnMaxPool-2-2
512-Tconv3-256
512-Tconv3-512
512-Tconv3-512
UnMaxPool-2-2
512-Tconv3-512
512-Tconv3-512
512-Tconv3-512
Table 1: The CNN3D architecture used for semantic segmentation. For standard convolutions and transpose convolutions
the format is: input size −kernel size −output size. For maxpooling and un-maxpooling: kernel size −stride. The arrows
indicate skip layer connections between encoder and decoder.
ture Propagation (FP) layer, interpolates features and learns
decoding into the dimension of the targeted SA layer all the
way up to the same size as the input point cloud. For a seg-
mentation task, the latent space is fed into a succession of FP
layers up to the original point cloud size, to decode for each
point the class it belongs to. This can be seen as a classical
encoder/decoder architecture with the SA layer succession
being the encoding part and the FP layers succession the de-
coding part. Colour is added as a feature which is concate-
nated to points spatial information in the ﬁrst SA layers. We
provide the architecture summary for PointNet++ in Table 2
with Abstraction layer (SA) and Feature Propagation (FP)
layers details.
Since the majority of vision systems for agriculture em-
ploy standard colour cameras, we also propose to compare
our 3D system to a 2D baseline. As a potential limit for seg-
mentation algorithms we use the superior results achieved
through the use of a classic SegNet architecture Badrinarayanan
et al. (2017) which is based on an encoding/decoding princi-
ple. The encoding part creates latent feature maps extracted
from the input whilst the decoder transforms the features into
a segmentation mask, attributing for each pixel its predicted
class. Our implementation uses batch normalisation Ioﬀe
and Szegedy (2015), ReLU as an activation function and
max pooling for dimensionality reduction and compression
into the latent space. In the decoding part of the architecture,
up-sampling is done using an un-max pooling function with
the indices taken from the encoding part of the architecture.
Finally a softmax function is used to transform the output of
the network to a per-class probability for each pixel.
encoder
layer
#points
radius
mlps
SA
4096
0.1
[16, 16, 32]
SA
2048
0.1
[32,32,32]
SA
1024
0.1
[32,32,64]
SA
256
0.2
[64,64,128]
SA
64
0.4
[128,128,256]
SA
16
0.8
[256,256,512]
decoder
layer
features
FP
256,256
FP
256,256
FP
256,128
FP
128,128,128
FP
128,128,64
FP
128,128,64
MLP
[64,128]
MLP
[128,2]
Table 2: The PointNet++ conﬁguration.
3.4. Simulated benchmarking environment
To fully assess the limitations of the current 3D sensing
technology and the proposed segmentation method, we pro-
pose to introduce a realistic simulated environment featuring
a 3D sensor with characteristics and parameters similar to
the real devices but allowing for control of the depth sens-
ing quality. The inherent part of the simulation is a realistic
environment, which in our case is based on a real strawberry
farm (see Fig. 5) and implemented in the Unity game en-
Le Louëdec, Cielniak: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 5 of 14

3D shape sensing and deep learning-based segmentation of strawberries
gine Engine (2008). Unity oﬀers an integrated physics and
3D graphics simulator allowing for realistic renderings of
natural scenes, diﬀerent light conditions, shadows, textures
together with a number of tools streamlining the develop-
ment and data annotation process. The simulated device im-
plements a colour (i.e. RGB) and depth sensor with the same
resolution of 871 px×530 px and a ﬁeld of view of 60°. The
selected parameters result in a number of 3D points simi-
lar to both real sensors. The depth sensing range was set to
0.3 m to 2.0 m.
Simulating physically accurate depth sensors requires prior
manual measurements of the objects of interest as illustrated
in Bulczak et al. Bulczak et al. (2018). The presented ap-
proach provides a physically accurate simulation of a ToF
camera, mainly through the measurement of the Bidirectional
Reference Distribution Function (BRDF), describing how
light is reﬂected at this opaque surface, in this case near-
infra red light, which is mostly used for ToF cameras. How-
ever, BRDF data for diﬀerent materials and objects is ac-
quired through a very complex process explained in Dana et
al. Dana et al. (1999). Due to the lack of precise data avail-
able for strawberries and plants, we focus on approximating
the behaviour of reﬂectance through the normal information
and insight from Liu et al. Liu et al. (2014b). The reported
reﬂectance between 70% and 80% in the infrared wavelength
([750, 900]푛푚) used by most ToF cameras. Furthermore,
Kolb et al. Kolb et al. (2010) describe over-reﬂective ma-
terial to be leading to saturation and low reﬂective mate-
rial to produce low signal. The inﬂuence of the reﬂectance
on the eﬀectiveness of LiDAR sensors is evaluated in sim-
ulated environments by Muckenhuber et al. Muckenhuber
et al. (2020).
We model the reﬂectance of the soft fruit based on the
information from Liu et al. (2014b); Kolb et al. (2010), and
add surface distortion based on surface normal and incidence
direction of the camera’s emitted light. The disturbance Δ푃
is expressed as
Δ푃= Δ푣
(
1 −
휃+ 휋
2
휋
)
(1)
where Δ푃is the amount of change over the point position,
Δ푣a ratio to the distance from the camera (points further
away receive less distortion as the saturation is lower), and 휃
is the angle between the surface normal at this point and the
ray of light from the camera. We normalise this angle be-
tween 0 and 1, to have the distortion dependant on the direc-
tion faced by the surface (surface facing directly the camera
are more prone to higher saturation) with higher changes for
angles close to 0 (parallel to light direction), and lower for
angles close to 휋
2 . We illustrate this reﬂectance in Fig. 2
We also use an additive zero mean Gaussian noise (0, 휎2)
to simulate imperfections in depth reconstruction. This noise
is meant to simulate electronics and sensor noise, with a
global illumination. It smooths out the very linear depth cap-
tured, adding randomness over surfaces and rendering it less
perfect but keeps shapes close to the original models. We
Figure 2: The inﬂuence of the angle of incidence 휃and dis-
tance from the camera on the surface reﬂectance values.
Figure 3: Eﬀect of the reﬂectance added to the simulation:
the normal change rate with zero mean Gaussian noise (left),
and the same scene with the reﬂectance added (right).
a
b
c
d
Figure 4: A side view of the strawberry farm as seen through
the simulated sensor including colour image (a), depth image
(b), curvature map (c) and ground truth annotation (d).
show the diﬀerence made by the reﬂectance over the noise
in Fig. 3.
Our simulation environment features a mock-up straw-
berry farm consisting of a single 35 m long row of table tops
and strawberry plants with ﬂowers and berries attached to
the stems using 9 diﬀerent commercially available 3D mod-
els augmented by realistic scans of real strawberries from He
et al. (2017). The individual plants are multiplied and ran-
domly positioned along the tabletop row creating realistic
overlaps between leaves, stems, plants and berries. The straw-
berries are also grouped into clusters to simulate the appear-
ance of real varieties used in our experiments.
A snapshot of an example scene from the simulated farm
as perceived by the sensor, together with an automated se-
mantic segmentation annotation can be seen in Fig. 4.
4. Evaluation Methodology
We evaluate shape and depth produced by the previously
presented sensors, through the impact on semantic segmen-
tation as well as a quantitative and qualitative study of fruit
shape. We ﬁrst present in Sec. 4.1 the diﬀerent datasets used
for these various analysis and in Sec. 4.2 the diﬀerent metrics
Le Louëdec, Cielniak: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 6 of 14

3D shape sensing and deep learning-based segmentation of strawberries
Figure 5: The realistic simulation of a table top strawberry
farm implemented in the Unity engine.
Figure 6: A coloured point cloud from the ToF sensor (left
column) and corresponding normal map (right column) used
as an input for our CNN3D algorithm. The three normal
components are mapped to the RGB format.
Figure 7: The strawberry farm, with a robot roaming in the
tabletop rows collecting data (left). The sensor set-up used
for data collection (right).
used to evaluate semantic segmentation. Finally we present
various shape quality indicators for the berries in Sec. 4.3,
from roundness and average ellipsoid shape to the use of
spherical harmonics coeﬃcients. We also introduce the nor-
mal surface change indicator, used in Sec. 5.4, to oﬀer a vi-
sual analysis of the shape captured in diﬀerent datasets.
4.1. Datasets
To evaluate the selected 3D sensing devices for the task
of segmentation of strawberry fruit, we used them to col-
lect datasets from a real environment. To that end, we have
deployed our data acquisition system at a mini version of a
real strawberry farm, located at the Riseholme campus of
the University of Lincoln. The farm features two polytun-
nels of 6 tabletop rows, 24 m long with an industrial variety
of strawberries (everbearer Driscoll’s Amesti) as depicted in
Fig. 7.
The data capture setup, featuring the stereo and ToF sen-
sors, was mounted on an agricultural robot Thorvald Grim-
stad and From (2017). The robot autonomously navigated
the polytunnel rows, stopping every 20 cm to collect a snap-
shot from both views (see Fig. 7). The capturing session
took place in October 2019 and resulted in colour images and
point clouds representing diﬀerent growth stages of plants
and fruit. The datasets were then manually annotated to indi-
cate the location of strawberry fruits resulting in 132 labelled
point clouds with around 1574 instances of ripe strawberries
for ToF data and 57 point clouds for around 750 instances for
stereo data (see Table 3). The simulated dataset was created
to mimic the captured data described above. We automati-
cally captured a number of point clouds with the attributes
and parameters similar to the real cameras used in the ﬁeld.
The noise parameter was experimentally tested for diﬀerent
levels of 휎in range of [0.5−1.0] and due to its negligible in-
ﬂuence on the segmentation performance set to 휎= 0.5 cm.
The reﬂectiveness value was set to Δ푣= 0.2 for a distur-
bance between 0.7 cm for the closest and perpendicular sur-
faces and 0.0 cm for the farthest and perpendicular surfaces.
To assure a comparable size of the datasets, we balanced out
the total number of points for each sensor. The stereo and
ToF dataset were manually annotated by creating pixel-level
annotation in RGB images which were then projected into
the aligned point clouds. Annotation of the simulated data
was also performed at per pixel-level, but thanks to its na-
ture, was performed fully automatically. The summary of
the datasets collected for the experiments is presented in Ta-
ble 3.
sensor
stereo
ToF
simu
# point clouds
57
132
134
# points
∼300k
∼300k
∼400k
range
20cm-65m
20cm-70cm
20cm-80cm
# instances
∼750
∼1574
∼1200
% straw points
4.9%
3.0%
4.5%
Table 3: The summary of datasets collected.
For shape evaluation, we select a subset of 10 strawberry
samples from He et al. (2017) which were used to create the
realistic simulated fruit models described in Sec. 3.4. Fi-
nally we use two examples from the fuji dataset Gené-Mola
et al. (2020) and broccoli dataset Kusumam et al. (2017b);
Le Louedec et al. (2020b). These datasets oﬀer diﬀerent
capturing techniques, and focus on larger fruits/vegetables.
They allow us for a comparison of potential goals for shape
capture quality in Sec. 5.4.
For all the dataset we use 80% for training and the re-
maining 20% for testing for the segmentation task. For the
simulated data, we also use data augmentation, by randomly
rotating the point clouds around the z-axis, between -180 and
180 degrees.
4.2. Evaluation metrics for segmentation
To evaluate our trained models, we use standard seman-
tic segmentation metrics including Accuracy, mean Inter-
section over Union (mean IoU) and Cohen’s Kappa Cohen
Le Louëdec, Cielniak: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 7 of 14

3D shape sensing and deep learning-based segmentation of strawberries
(1960). The Accuracy 퐴푐푐= 푇푃+푇푁
푃+푁
measures how accu-
rate the prediction is compared to the ground truth, without
taking into account the class imbalance. The mean 퐼표푈=
푇푃
(푇푃+퐹푃+퐹푁) is the overlap of the output predicted by the al-
gorithm with the ground truth and averaged for every class
and samples. The Cohen’s Kappa coeﬃcient is particularly
useful for unbalanced data, where one class is more repre-
sented than the others - in our case, background represents
the majority of points when compared to strawberries. This
measure provides a better assessment of the real discrimina-
tory power of the classiﬁer and takes the observed and ex-
pected accuracies into account: 휅=
(퐴푐푐표푏푠−퐴푐푐푒푥푝)
1−퐴푐푐푒푥푝
. The Ob-
served Accuracy 퐴푐푐표푏푠is the number of instances correctly
classiﬁed, and the Expected Accuracy 퐴푐푐푒푥푝is what any
random classiﬁer should be expected to achieve. We ﬁnally
use the area under the precision-recall curve (AUC) as addi-
tional metric for comparisons between diﬀerent methods.
4.3. Shape quality indicators
To evaluate the quality of shape information in our sce-
nario, we propose to use several metrics which are adequate
for the shape of the strawberry. We use a roundness metric
from Cruz-Matías et al. (2019), which is expressed as the de-
viation from the minimum volume ellipsoid holding which
holds all the points. We add a 1mm precision margin to the
ellipsoid to ﬁlter out the noise and outliers. For each point of
a strawberry point cloud, we compute the distance from the
intersection between the ray passing by the point and the el-
lipsoid surface. This distance is Δ푘in Eq. 2. In this formula,
a b and c are the ellipsoid parameters, and n the number of
points.
푅= 1 −
∑푘
1 Δ푘
푛(푎푏푐)
1
3
(2)
In that case 1 means a perfect ellipsoid with lower values
indicating sharper and irregular shape. Furthermore as our
sensor data is collected from a single view, we compensate
for partial views by using only half of the ellipsoid; for the
SFM data, both sides are taken into account. The roundness
values, due to their averaging characteristics, are not aﬀected
by the partial visibility. We also align all the points along
the z axis based on their longer axis, which should always
correspond to the vertical axis of the berry.
We randomly select 40 strawberries from each dataset
presented in Table 3 and use all 10 high-quality strawberries
from He et al. (2017). For the simulated berries, we consider
two cases with and without the reﬂectance added. For all of
the instances, we manually clean up the point clouds to re-
move potential discrepancies due to misalignment of colour
and depth images and noisy outliers, to only keep the points
being part of the strawberry shape/surface.
Due to its averaging characteristics, the roundness met-
ric does not express all the perturbations and spikes of noise,
nor small surface deformations. We propose to use the same
technique as in Le Louedec and Cielniak (2020) to obtain a
more precise description of the shape and its surface. We
compute spherical harmonics coeﬃcients as well as round-
ness values and ellipsoid raddii and present the results in
Sec. 5.3.
To illustrate the ability of the RGBD cameras to render
shape information, we compare them against two other sens-
ing techniques and strategies using normal change rate in-
formation. This feature is a good visual indicator to evaluate
smoothness of surfaces, or in case of sensing failure, noisy
or too ﬂat areas indicating troubles to capture surface and
shape information correctly. The normal change rate 푁in-
dicates the gradient in the local surface around each point,
expressed as
푁= 푚푖푛(푒1, 푒2, 푒3)
∑3
푖=1 푒푖
(3)
with 푒1, 푒2, 푒3 being the three eigen values from the covari-
ance matrix of the local neighborhood of each point.
5. Results
5.1. Segmentation results
Table 4 contains results for diﬀerent variants of the al-
gorithms run on the three datasets representing stereo, ToF
and simulated sensors. We compare our proposed algorithm
CNN3D to the 3D PointNet++ baseline (PNet) and 2D base-
line (SegNet). We also consider additional network conﬁg-
urations combining 3D and colour information resulting in
CNN3DC and PNetC variants respectively.
The 2D baseline which we use as an ultimate reference is
characterised by the exceptional performance in our applica-
tion thanks to its reliance on context-rich visual features such
as colour or texture, enabling superior segmentation results.
Whilst using 3D information only for segmentation of soft
fruit cannot match the 2D baseline, our proposed CNN3D ar-
chitecture bridges the performance gap between SegNet and
PointNet++ by doubling the AUC metrics for each type of
dataset. The particularly poor results for PNet are consis-
tent with our initial ﬁndings reported in Le Louedec et al.
(2020a). For the simulated dataset, where the quality of 3D
data is unaﬀected by the imperfections of sensing technol-
ogy, we can see that the performance diﬀerence between
SegNet and CNN3D disappears almost completely (0.01 of
AUC) indicating a good discriminative potential of the shape
information for our segmentation task. The results also in-
dicate that the overall quality of 3D information from the
ToF sensor is superior to that of the stereo (e.g. 0.08 AUC
diﬀerence for CNN3D).
Adding reﬂectance to the simulation bring down the re-
sults obtained with all the algorithms, to levels closer to those
found with ToF dataset. It shows with the previous shape
study that taking into account the high reﬂectance of these
fruits help us understand part of the problem with sensing
technologies.
The importance of colour information for our applica-
tion, is highlighted in the performance of the extended vari-
ants of the presented 3D networks (i.e. CNN3DC and PNetC).
The AUC metric is boosted by more than 0.22 for CNN3DC
Le Louëdec, Cielniak: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 8 of 14

3D shape sensing and deep learning-based segmentation of strawberries
Model
Camera
Acc [%]
휅
mean IoU
AUC
SegNet
stereo
98.55
0.87
0.77
0.89
PNet
89.35
0.45
0.19
0.31
CNN3D
92.11
0.62
0.42
0.62
PNetC
94.74
0.69
0.52
0.72
CNN3DC
97.45
0.87
0.78
0.87
SegNet
ToF
99.17
0.87
0.78
0.92
PNet
81.78
0.42
0.19
0.29
CNN3D
95.66
0.72
0.54
0.70
PNetC
92.36
0.71
0.58
0.78
CNN3DC
98.68
0.91
0.85
0.92
SegNet
simu −reﬂectance
99.56
0.96
0.92
0.98
PNet
96.61
0.63
0.39
0.57
CNN3D
99.55
0.95
0.92
0.96
PNetC
97.50
0.74
0.60
0.82
CNN3DC
99.72
0.98
0.95
0.99
SegNet
simu 푤∕reﬂectance
99.56
0.96
0.92
0.98
PNet
95.77
0.43
0.11
0.19
CNN3D
99.11
0.92
0.86
0.93
PNetC
97.45
0.60
0.32
0.48
CNN3DC
99.27
0.94
0.93
0.98
Table 4: Performance of the proposed CNN3D architecture compared to 2D and 3D baselines.
and more than 0.41 for PNetC when compared to 3D only
networks. CNN3DC matches and, especially in the simu-
lated case, slightly exceeds the performance of the SegNet
baseline. Whilst the use of the proposed combined 3D and
colour architecture does not bring dramatic changes in seg-
mentation performance, it can be exploited in systems which
estimate other properties of soft fruit such as their 3D pose
and shape quality.
The proposed CNN3D architecture, due to its nature, is
computationally eﬃcient with inference times (∼22 ms per
point cloud) comparable to those of SegNet (∼20 ms per im-
age). This is an order of magnitude less than the process-
ing times required by PointNet++ (∼200 ms). The addi-
tional step of normal computation can be implemented eﬃ-
ciently using integral images resulting in processing times of
<10 ms, depending on the complexity of the scene. The re-
ported times are for the parallelised variants of the networks
running on an NVidia GPU GTX 1080 Ti.
Fig. 8 presents the output examples of the proposed CNN3D
method applied to the three datasets. The examples illustrate
the overall good quality of the predictions and suitability of
3D information for the segmentation task. The problematic
regions match closely the observations made in Sec. 3.1. The
relatively high number of False Negatives for the stereo data
is corresponding to ﬂat surfaces whilst the higher noise pro-
ﬁle for the ToF sensor results in increased False Positives. In
the simulated data, the areas most susceptible to wrong seg-
mentation are those heavily occluded and those correspond-
ing to fruits with very particular pose and shape not present
in the training set.
We present zoomed-in examples in Fig. 9, for each sen-
sors. The same characteristics of errors appear, with stereo
data lacking shape and increasing False Negatives, ToF cre-
ating noisier areas increasing False Positives, and the noise
added to the simulated data, blurring areas around the straw-
berries creating less precise object contours.
5.2. CNN3D ablation
We study the model improvement we added, with the
study of the conv transpose eﬀect and normal features added
as an input. We train CNN3D with a conv and transpose con-
volution (in decoder part) variation on simulated data with
and without reﬂectance, with points as only inputs and points
and surface normals combined. We present the results in
Tab. 5.
Using normals as extra input feature, consistently im-
prove the results across simulation variations. conv trans-
pose on the other hand struggle with noisier inputs with re-
ﬂectance added. This is logical with the nature of conv trans-
pose, as with reﬂectance, local information becomes more
unreliable and spread feature maps less an advantage. How-
ever with stereo and ToF dataset, conv transpose proves to be
more suited and improving the results compare to standard
convolutions.
5.3. Quantitative shape evaluation
We study the shape of the strawberries across our four
captured datasets (simu −reﬂectance,simu 푤∕reﬂectance,ToF,stereo),
and for comparison the high quality data captured in He et al.
(2017). For this purpose we propose studying roundness of
their shape, their bounding ellipsoid characteristics, as well
as their spherical harmonics characteristics.
We report the results in Table 6, which denotes the round-
ness values (average with std) and average ellipsoid radii/parameters
for each data set. The ellipsoid parameters are normalised for
Le Louëdec, Cielniak: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 9 of 14

3D shape sensing and deep learning-based segmentation of strawberries
model
Camera
Acc
휅
mean IoU
AUC
pts푐
stereo
90.78%
0.61
0.40
0.63
pts푡
91.00%
0.60
0.36
0.61
pts+normc
92.11%
0.62
0.36
0.61
pts+normt
91.39%
0.62
0.42
0.62
pts푐
ToF
92.25%
0.57
0.32
0.48
pts푡
93.67%
0.63
0.39
0.58
pts+normc
95.07%
0.70
0.53
0.70
pts+normt
95.66%
0.72
0.54
0.70
ptsc
simu −reﬂectance
99.09%
0.91
0.84
0.92
ptst
98.54%
0.86
0.76
0.88
pts+normc
99.21%
0.92
0.86
0.93
pts+normt
99.55%
0.95
0.92
0.96
ptsc
simu 푤∕reﬂectance
98.78%
0.88
0.79
0.90
ptst
98.71%
0.87
0.78
0.89
pts+normc
99.16%
0.92
0.86
0.93
pts+normt
99.11%
0.92
0.86
0.93
Table 5: Ablation study of the eﬀect inputs : pts (points coordinates) and norm (normals), and conv transpose (t) instead of
convolutions (c)
direct comparison between the diﬀerent datasets. The ToF
and simulation (without reﬂectance) produce similar round-
ness values and ellipsoid shapes, which conﬁrms overall bet-
ter shape quality obtained with ToF sensing. On the other
hand the stereo sensor produces very ﬂat surfaces, which are
also visible in the simulated results including the reﬂectance
(due to surface saturation).
We compute the backward transformation of the spheri-
cal harmonics for all the berries and average the coeﬃcients
obtained to create an overall spectral proﬁle for each set (see
Fig. 10). With Gaussian noise only, the simulation spectrum
is relatively close to that of the SFM data. We see similar
spectra for the simulation and ToF with higher perturbations
for ToF. Spectral proﬁle for the stereo data is characterised
by a far greater noise level and deformed shape. Once re-
data
roundness
ellipsoid radii
stereo
0.23 ± 0.11
[0.15, 0.62, 0.77]
ToF
0.51 ± 0.10
[0.38, 0.56, 0.73]
simu −reﬂectance
0.52 ± 0.07
[0.42, 0.55, 0.72]
simu 푤∕reﬂectance
0.29 ± 0.12
[0.29, 0.49, 0.82]
He et al. (2017)
0.80 ± 0.02
[0.47, 0.53, 0.70]
Table 6: The average shape characteristics for each data set.
ﬂectance is added, the simulation proﬁle becomes closer to
the ToF proﬁle indicating higher noise levels.
Figure 8: The segmentation results for CNN3D trained on data from the stereo (top row), ToF (middle row) and simulated
data (bottom row). The colours correspond to TP (green), FP (orange), FN (purple), TN (gray) and no data (black). Left
column is an underneath view while the right side is a side view (except for the simulation, where both are side view).
Le Louëdec, Cielniak: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 10 of 14

3D shape sensing and deep learning-based segmentation of strawberries
Figure 9: The ﬁne detail of segmentation results for partic-
ularly diﬃcult cases for CNN3D trained on data from the
stereo (left), ToF (centre) and simulated data (right). The
colours correspond to TP (green), FP (orange), FN (purple),
TN (gray) and no data (black).
5.4. Qualitative shape evaluation
The ﬁnal shape evaluation we oﬀer is qualitative and re-
lies on the normal change rate information. For this purpose
we compare crops from two other datasets with data capture
using stereo and ToF sensors on strawberries. We also look
at the inﬂuence of external light by capturing data indoor
with both sensors.
We present in Fig. 11 a point cloud shape comparison
from 4 diﬀerent datasets captured using diﬀerent methods.
The ﬁrst example is from the Fuji apple dataset Gené-Mola
et al. (2020), where a point cloud representing an apple or-
chard was created using RGB images and the structure-from-
motion (SFM) algorithm. The second example is from a
broccoli dataset Kusumam et al. (2017b), captured using the
Kinect sensor, and an enclosing box set-up reducing the in-
ﬂuence of the sun on the crop. The two last examples are
respectively from the Intel RealSense stereo camera and the
Pico Zense ToF camera, captured at the same time with sen-
sors stacked on top of each other to oﬀer the same capturing
conditions. Both the Fuji apple and broccoli datasets oﬀer
a diﬀerent perspective on the sensing of objects in agricul-
tural context. The former does not rely on any 3D camera to
get spatial and shape information but rather large amount of
RGB images, while the later minimises sun exposure through
a pseudo-controlled environment to enhance the quality of
the data collected. These choices improve largely the qual-
ity of the sensed shape of the objects of interest, but also
come with additional limitations, which are not easily appli-
cable in soft fruit scenarios. Firstly using SFM requires large
amount of images and processing power to register them into
a point cloud, which limits the use of SFM in real time appli-
cations. Concerning the broccoli dataset, the solution relies
on the fact that broccoli plants grow on the ground where
using box enclosures is fairly straightforward. This is much
more diﬃcult for strawberries, which are vertically hanging
from table-tops where any enclosure would need block the
sun oﬀfrom all sides resulting in signiﬁcant size of the en-
closure.
The other factors which should be considered are both
the size and reﬂectiveness of the strawberry compared to
crops such as apples or broccoli. These are directly observ-
able in the two examples presented in Fig. 11. The data com-
ing out of the stereo camera is lacking details, becoming very
ﬂat with a clear lack of shape features and with the fruit often
indistinguishable from the background. The ToF data better
represents the shape, but reﬂectiveness becomes a problem
resulting in noisier information with additional noise on the
surface and a slightly deformed shape, while having better
boundary deﬁnition between the objects leading to a better
chance for distinguishing the fruits from the background.
To assess the inﬂuence of the changing light conditions,
we have also captured a snapshot of the same strawberry
plants in an indoor, controlled environment where the amount
of sunlight is reduced to a minimum using both cameras (see
Fig. 12). In this setup, the characteristic projected pattern is
clearly visible in the infra-red image from the stereo cam-
era. The majority of large surfaces are covered uniformly
by the pattern but the reﬂective and small surfaces of the
plant create very high distortion and blend the projected dots
resulting in greatly reduced accuracy of depth estimation.
The resulting irregularities in depth estimation are of simi-
lar scale and shape as the object of interest (i.e. strawberry
fruit) and therefore might negatively impact the discrimina-
tive capabilities of the object detector. The major challenge
for the ToF sensor are reﬂective surfaces such as the plas-
tic tarpaulins or growing bags and plant parts which saturate
and blend together aﬀecting the quality of the reconstructed
depth.
We show the normal change rate of the point cloud in
Fig. 13, which again demonstrates the same characteristics
as outdoor data. Even without the inﬂuence of the sun, the
size and reﬂectance of the fruits seems to be impacting the
shape information in the depth images created by the cam-
eras.
Both examples indicate potential challenges in deploying
3D vision systems for detection of small objects in agricul-
ture. These are not only limited to the external ﬂuctuations
of infra-red light from the sun but also include reﬂective ob-
jects such as strawberry fruit which are particularly sensitive
to infra-red light. The projected pattern of the stereo camera
is particularly prone to side eﬀects and poor results in depth
estimation. For both sensors, the small scale surfaces are dif-
ﬁcult since these do not oﬀer enough features and variation
for an accurate depth reconstruction. Getting the cameras
closer to the objects could potentially help, but the current
technology does not allow for measuring at distances less
than 20-30 cm.
6. Conclusion
Capturing and utilising 3D information for object detec-
tion, segmentation or classiﬁcation is a challenging task es-
pecially in the agricultural context presented in this paper.
Our study evaluated two 3D sensing technologies, oﬀered a
study of the shape produced by them, proposed an eﬃcient
Le Louëdec, Cielniak: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 11 of 14

3D shape sensing and deep learning-based segmentation of strawberries
Stereo
ToF
Simu−reﬂectance
Simu푤∕reﬂectance
He et al. (2017)
Figure 10: Spectral proﬁles of strawberry point clouds for each dataset.
A
B
C
D
Figure 11: Comparison between diﬀerent fruits/plants and
sensing techniques, with their pointcloud and RGB image,
and the normal change rate for shape and surface analysis:
(A) Fuji apple dataset, (B) broccoli dataset, (C) strawberry
stereo, (D) straberry ToF.
network segmentation architecture and compared its perfor-
stereo
ToF
stereo
ToF
Figure 12: A side view of the strawberry plants in controlled
environment (1st row) as seen through the stereo and ToF
sensors including the infra-red (bottom left) and depth (bot-
tom right) images.
mance to 3D and 2D variants of state-of-the-art neural net-
works trained on the data collected from a real strawberry
farm and its realistic representation in simulation. These
results show encouraging performance but also allow us to
highlight the limitations of current technologies and algo-
rithms. Time-of-Flight technology, despite its superior qual-
ity of point clouds and shape information, struggles with re-
ﬂective surfaces resulting in a large number of false segmen-
tations, while stereo technology, lacking detail in acquired
Le Louëdec, Cielniak: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 12 of 14

3D shape sensing and deep learning-based segmentation of strawberries
stereo
ToF
Figure 13: Normal change rate of a strawberry cluster show-
ing detail from Fig. 12 for the stereo (left) and ToF (right)
sensors.
depth, fails to detect numerous fruits. On the other hand,
the proposed CNN3D network narrows the gap between tra-
ditional 2D image-based convolutional neural networks and
3D architectures for the segmentation task and demonstrates
comparable performance in simulated scenarios indicating
future promise of employing 3D information for such appli-
cations. Using 3D information for detection and segmenta-
tion is becoming a very important approach to consider in the
agricultural domain. And sensing good shape quality is an
important factor to consider when deploying robots into the
ﬁeld. It could alleviate problems such as occlusions, clusters
and very close objects, faced while considering only colour
images for detection. Implementing reliable transfer learn-
ing between realistic simulation and real world sensor data,
is the ultimate goal and the subject of our future work. First
understanding completely the challenges faced by the sens-
ing technologies and adapting the simulation to solve them,
before trying to bridge the gap between simulation and real
world. This work should encourage researchers and compa-
nies to develop more accurate and robust 3D sensing tech-
nologies beneﬁting future applications in agriculture.
References
Guillem Alenyà, Sergi Foix, and Carme Torras.
Using tof and rgbd
cameras for 3d robot perception and manipulation in human environ-
ments. Intelligent Service Robotics, 7:211–220, 10 2014. doi: 10.1007/
s11370-014-0159-5.
I. Armeni, A. Sax, A. R. Zamir, and S. Savarese. Joint 2D-3D-Semantic
Data for Indoor Scene Understanding. ArXiv e-prints, February 2017.
V. Badrinarayanan, A. Kendall, and R. Cipolla. Segnet: A deep convo-
lutional encoder-decoder architecture for image segmentation.
IEEE
Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, 39(12):
2481–2495, 2017.
Ehud Barnea, Rotem Mairon, and Ohad Ben-Shahar.
Colour-agnostic
shape-based 3d fruit detection for crop harvesting robots. Biosystems
Engineering, 146:57 – 70, 2016. ISSN 1537-5110. doi: https://doi.org/
10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2016.01.013. URL http://www.sciencedirect.
com/science/article/pii/S1537511016000131. Special Issue: Advances in
Robotic Agriculture for Crops.
David Bulczak, Martin Lambers, and Andreas Kolb. Quantiﬁed, interactive
simulation of amcw tof camera including multipath eﬀects. Sensors, 18
(1), 2018. ISSN 1424-8220. doi: 10.3390/s18010013. URL https:
//www.mdpi.com/1424-8220/18/1/13.
Jacob Cohen.
A coeﬃcient of agreement for nominal scales.
Educational and Psychological Measurement, 20(1):37–46, 1960.
doi: 10.1177/001316446002000104.
URL https://doi.org/10.1177/
001316446002000104.
Irving Cruz-Matías, Dolors Ayala, Daniel Hiller, Sebastian Gutsch, Margit
Zacharias, Sònia Estradé, and Francesca Peiró. Sphericity and roundness
computation for particles using the extreme vertices model. Journal of
Computational Science, 30:28–40, 2019. ISSN 1877-7503. doi: https:
//doi.org/10.1016/j.jocs.2018.11.005. URL https://www.sciencedirect.
com/science/article/pii/S1877750318304757.
Angela Dai, Angel X. Chang, Manolis Savva, Maciej Halber, Thomas
Funkhouser, and Matthias Nießner. ScanNet: Richly-annotated 3D Re-
constructions of Indoor Scenes. In Proc. Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition (CVPR), IEEE, page 0, 2017.
Kristin J. Dana, Bram van Ginneken, Shree K. Nayar, and Jan J. Koen-
derink. Reﬂectance and texture of real-world surfaces. ACM Trans.
Graph., 18(1):1–34, January 1999. ISSN 0730-0301. doi: 10.1145/
300776.300778. URL https://doi.org/10.1145/300776.300778.
Tom Duckett, Simon Pearson, Simon Blackmore, and Bruce Grieve.
Agricultural Robotics: The Future of Robotic Agriculture. UK-RAS
White Papers. UK-RAS Network, 6 2018.
Unity Game Engine.
Unity game engine-oﬃcial site.
Online][Cited:
October 9, 2008.] http://unity3d. com, pages 1534–4320, 2008.
Pål Johan From, Lars Grimstad, Marc Hanheide, Simon Pearson, and Grze-
gorz Cielniak. RASberry - Robotic and Autonomous Systems for Berry
Production. Mechanical Engineering Magazine Select Articles, 140, Jun
2018. doi: http://dx.doi.org/10.1115/1.2018-JUN-6.
Jordi Gené-Mola, Ricardo Sanz-Cortiella, Joan R. Rosell-Polo, Josep-
Ramon Morros, Javier Ruiz-Hidalgo, Verónica Vilaplana, and Eduard
Gregorio.
Fuji-sfm dataset: A collection of annotated images and
point clouds for fuji apple detection and location using structure-from-
motion photogrammetry. Data in Brief, 30:105591, 2020. ISSN 2352-
3409.
doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dib.2020.105591.
URL https:
//www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352340920304856.
Lars Grimstad and Pål Johan From. The Thorvald II Agricultural Robotic
System.
Robotics, 6(4), 2017.
ISSN 2218-6581.
doi: 10.3390/
robotics6040024.
Georg Halmetschlager-Funek, Markus Suchia, Martin Kampel, and Markus
Vincze. An empirical evaluation of ten depth cameras. IEEE Robotics
and automation magazine, 2018.
Samiul Haque, Edgar Lobaton, Natalie Nelson, G. Craig Yencho, Ken-
neth V. Pecota, Russell Mierop, Michael W. Kudenov, Mike Boyette,
and Cranos M. Williams.
Computer vision approach to charac-
terize size and shape phenotypes of horticultural crops using high-
throughput imagery. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 182:
106011, 2021. ISSN 0168-1699. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.
2021.106011.
URL https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/
pii/S0168169921000296.
Joe Q. He, Richard J. Harrison, and Bo Li. A novel 3d imaging system for
strawberry phenotyping. In Plant Methods, page 0, 2017.
Yu He and Shengyong Chen. Advances in sensing and processing methods
for three-dimensional robot vision. International Journal of Advanced
Robotic Systems, 15(2):1729881418760623, 2018.
doi:
10.1177/
1729881418760623. URL https://doi.org/10.1177/1729881418760623.
Sergey Ioﬀe and Christian Szegedy.
Batch normalization: Accelerat-
ing deep network training by reducing internal covariate shift.
In
Proceedings of the 32nd International Conference on International
Conference on Machine Learning - Volume 37, ICML’15, page
448–456. JMLR.org, 2015.
T. Ishikawa, A. Hayashi, Shiro Nagamatsu, Y. Kyutoku, I. Dan, Takuya
Wada, K. Oku, Y. Saeki, T. Uto, T. Tanabata, Sachiko Isobe, and
N. Kochi. Classiﬁcation of strawberry fruit shape by machine learn-
ing. ISPRS - International Archives of the Photogrammetry, Remote
Sensing and Spatial Information Sciences, XLII-2:463–470, 05 2018.
doi: 10.5194/isprs-archives-XLII-2-463-2018.
Mingyang Jiang, Yiran Wu, Tianqi Zhao, Zelin Zhao, and Cewu Lu.
PointSIFT: A SIFT-like Network Module for 3D Point Cloud Seman-
tic Segmentation. arXiv e-prints, art. arXiv:1807.00652, Jul 2018.
Wajahat Kazmi, Sergi Foix, Guillem Alenyà, and Hans Jørgen Ander-
sen.
Indoor and outdoor depth imaging of leaves with time-of-ﬂight
and stereo vision sensors: Analysis and comparison. ISPRS Journal
of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, 88:128 – 146, 2014. ISSN
Le Louëdec, Cielniak: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 13 of 14

3D shape sensing and deep learning-based segmentation of strawberries
0924-2716. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.isprsjprs.2013.11.012. URL
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0924271613002748.
Diederik P Kingma and Jimmy Ba. Adam: A method for stochastic opti-
mization. arXiv preprint arXiv:1412.6980, 2014.
A. Kolb, E. Barth, R. Koch, and R. Larsen.
Time-of-ﬂight cameras in
computer graphics. Computer Graphics Forum, 29(1):141–159, 2010.
doi: https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-8659.2009.01583.x.
URL https:
//onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1467-8659.2009.01583.x.
Keerthy Kusumam, Tomáš Krajník, Simon Pearson, Tom Duckett, and
Grzegorz Cielniak. 3D-vision based detection, localization, and sizing
of broccoli heads in the ﬁeld. Journal of Field Robotics, 34(8):1505–
1518, 2017a.
Keerthy Kusumam, Tomáš Krajník, Simon Pearson, Tom Duckett, and
Grzegorz Cielniak.
3d-vision based detection, localization, and siz-
ing of broccoli heads in the ﬁeld.
Journal of Field Robotics, 34(8):
1505–1518, 2017b. doi: https://doi.org/10.1002/rob.21726. URL https:
//onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/rob.21726.
Justin Le Louedec and Grzegorz Cielniak. Determining shape of strawberry
crops with spherical harmonics. UKRAS 2020, pages 122–124, 05 2020.
doi: 10.31256/Mc8Hl1A.
Justin Le Louedec, Bo Li, and Grzegorz Cielniak. Evaluation of 3d vi-
sion systems for detection of small objects in agricultural environments.
In Proceedings of the 15th International Joint Conference on Computer
Vision, Imaging and Computer Graphics Theory and Applications -
Volume 5: VISAPP,, pages 682–689. INSTICC, SciTePress, 2020a.
ISBN 978-989-758-402-2. doi: 10.5220/0009182806820689.
Justin Le Louedec, Hector A. Montes, Tom Duckett, and Grzegorz Ciel-
niak.
Segmentation and detection from organised 3d point clouds:
A case study in broccoli head detection.
In Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR) Workshops, page 0, June 2020b.
Chris Lehnert, Andrew English, Chris McCool, Adam Tow, and Tristan
Perez. A Sweet Pepper Harvesting Robot for Protected Cropping Envi-
ronments. arXiv e-prints, art. arXiv:1810.11920, Oct 2018.
Bo Li. 3d fully convolutional network for vehicle detection in point cloud.
In 2017 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and
Systems (IROS), pages 1513–1518. IEEE, 2017.
Hua li, Yan Qian, Peng Cao, Wenqing Yin, Fang Dai, Fei Hu, and Zhijun
Yan. Calculation method of surface shape feature of rice seed based
on point cloud. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 142:416–
423, 2017. ISSN 0168-1699. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.
2017.09.009.
URL https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/
pii/S0168169917300091.
Yangyan Li, Rui Bu, Mingchao Sun, and Baoquan Chen. PointCNN: Con-
volution On 푋-Transformed Points. arXiv preprint arXiv:1801.07791,
2018.
Guichao Lin, Yunchao Tang, Xiangjun Zou, and Chenglin Wang. Three-
dimensional reconstruction of guava fruits and branches using instance
segmentation and geometry analysis.
Computers and Electronics in
Agriculture, 184:106107, 2021. ISSN 0168-1699. doi: https://doi.org/
10.1016/j.compag.2021.106107. URL https://www.sciencedirect.com/
science/article/pii/S0168169921001253.
Changhong Liu, Wei Liu, Xuzhong Lu, Fei Ma, Wei Chen, Jianbo Yang,
and Lei Zheng. Application of multispectral imaging to determine qual-
ity attributes and ripeness stage in strawberry fruit. PloS one, 9:e87818,
02 2014a. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0087818.
Changhong Liu, Wei Liu, Xuzhong Lu, Fei Ma, Wei Chen, Jianbo Yang,
and Lei Zheng. Application of multispectral imaging to determine qual-
ity attributes and ripeness stage in strawberry fruit. PloS one, 9:e87818,
02 2014b. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0087818.
Huajian Liu, Brooke Bruning, Trevor Garnett, and Bettina Berger. Hyper-
spectral imaging and 3d technologies for plant phenotyping: From satel-
lite to close-range sensing. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture,
175:105621, 2020.
ISSN 0168-1699.
doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/
j.compag.2020.105621. URL https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/
article/pii/S0168169919318848.
Efthimia Mavridou, Eleni Vrochidou, George A. Papakostas, Theodore
Pachidis, and Vassilis G. Kaburlasos. Machine vision systems in pre-
cision agriculture for crop farming.
Journal of Imaging, 5(12):89,
Dec 2019. ISSN 2313-433X. doi: 10.3390/jimaging5120089. URL
http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/jimaging5120089.
Stefan Muckenhuber, Hannes Holzer, and Zrinka Bockaj. Automotive lidar
modelling approach based on material properties and lidar capabilities.
Sensors, 20(11), 2020. ISSN 1424-8220. doi: 10.3390/s20113309. URL
https://www.mdpi.com/1424-8220/20/11/3309.
Shiro Nagamatsu, Masao Tsubone, Takuya Wada, Koichiro Oku, Miyuki
Mori, Chiharu Hirata, Atsushi Hayashi, Takanari Tanabata, Sachiko
Isobe, Kinuko Takata, and Katsumi Shimomura. Strawberry fruit shape:
quantiﬁcation by image analysis and qtl detection by genome-wide asso-
ciation analysis. Breeding Science, 02 2021. doi: 10.1270/jsbbs.19106.
Charles R Qi, Hao Su, Kaichun Mo, and Leonidas J Guibas. PointNet:
Deep learning on point sets for 3d classiﬁcation and segmentation. Proc.
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), IEEE, 1(2):4, 2017a.
Charles Ruizhongtai Qi, Li Yi, Hao Su, and Leonidas J Guibas. Point-
Net++: Deep hierarchical feature learning on point sets in a metric
space. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, pages
5099–5108, 2017b.
Tahir Rabbani, Frank Van Den Heuvel, and George Vosselmann. Segmenta-
tion of point clouds using smoothness constraint. International archives
of photogrammetry, remote sensing and spatial information sciences, 36
(5):248–253, 2006.
Olaf Ronneberger, Philipp Fischer, and Thomas Brox. U-net: Convolu-
tional networks for biomedical image segmentation.
In International
Conference on Medical image computing and computer-assisted
intervention, pages 234–241. Springer, 2015.
Qinghua Su, Naoshi Kondo, Minzan Li, Hong Sun, Dimas Firmanda Al
Riza, and Harshana Habaragamuwa. Potato quality grading based on
machine vision and 3d shape analysis. Computers and Electronics in
Agriculture, 152:261–268, 2018. ISSN 0168-1699. doi: https://doi.org/
10.1016/j.compag.2018.07.012. URL https://www.sciencedirect.com/
science/article/pii/S016816991830067X.
Yonglin Tian, Xuan Li, Kunfeng Wang, and Fei-Yue Wang. Training and
testing object detectors with virtual images.
IEEE/CAA Journal of
Automatica Sinica, 5(2):539–546, 2018.
Manuel Vázquez-Arellano, Hans Griepentrog, David Reiser, and Dimitris
Paraforos. 3-D Imaging Systems for Agricultural Applications—A Re-
view. Sensors, 16(5):618, Apr 2016. ISSN 1424-8220. doi: 10.3390/
s16050618. URL http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/s16050618.
Wang, Chen, Zhu, Liu, Li, and Zheng. A survey of mobile laser scanning
applications and key techniques over urban areas. Remote Sensing, 11
(13):1540, Jun 2019a. ISSN 2072-4292. doi: 10.3390/rs11131540. URL
http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/rs11131540.
Li Wang, Ruifeng Li, Hezi Shi, Jingwen Sun, Lijun Zhao, Hock Soon Seah,
Chee Kwang Quah, and Budianto Tandianus. Multi-channel convolu-
tional neural network based 3d object detection for indoor robot envi-
ronmental perception. Sensors, 19(4), 2019b. ISSN 1424-8220. doi:
10.3390/s19040893. URL https://www.mdpi.com/1424-8220/19/4/893.
Yawei Wang and Yifei Chen. Fruit morphological measurement based on
three-dimensional reconstruction. Agronomy, 10(4), 2020. ISSN 2073-
4395. doi: 10.3390/agronomy10040455. URL https://www.mdpi.com/
2073-4395/10/4/455.
K. Wlodarska, J. Szulc, I. Khmelinskii, and Sikorska E. Non-destructive
determination of strawberry fruit and juice quality parameters using ul-
traviolet, visible, and near-infrared spectroscopy. Journal of the Science
of Food and Agriculture, 2019. doi: 10.1002/jsfa.9870.
Gang Wu, Bin Li, Qibing Zhu, Min Huang, and Ya Guo.
Using color
and 3d geometry features to segment fruit point cloud and improve fruit
recognition accuracy. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 174:
105475, 2020. ISSN 0168-1699. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.
2020.105475.
URL https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/
pii/S0168169920300843.
Takeshi Yoshida, Takanori Fukao, , and Takaomi Hasegawa. Fast Detection
of Tomato Peduncle Using Point Cloud with a Harvesting Robot. Journal
of Robotics and Mechatronics, 30(2):180–186, 2018. doi: 10.20965/
jrm.2018.p0180.
Le Louëdec, Cielniak: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 14 of 14
