Spatio-Temporal Metric-Semantic Mapping for Persistent Orchard
Monitoring: Method and Dataset
Jiuzhou Lei, Ankit Prabhu, Xu Liu, Fernando Cladera, Mehrad Mortazavi,
Reza Ehsani, Pratik Chaudhari, Vijay Kumar
Abstract— Monitoring orchards at the individual tree or
fruit level throughout the growth season is crucial for plant
phenotyping and horticultural resource optimization, such as
chemical use and yield estimation. We present a 4D spatio-
temporal metric-semantic mapping system that integrates
multi-session measurements to track fruit growth over time.
Our approach combines a LiDAR-RGB fusion module for 3D
fruit localization with a 4D fruit association method leveraging
positional, visual, and topology information for improved data
association precision. Evaluated on real orchard data, our
method achieves a 96.9% fruit counting accuracy for 1,790
apples across 60 trees, a mean fruit size estimation error of
1.1 cm, and a 23.7% improvement in 4D data association
precision over baselines. We publicly release a multimodal
dataset covering five fruit species across their growth seasons.
https://4d-metric-semantic-mapping.org/
I. INTRODUCTION
Persistent orchard monitoring is vital for farmers to op-
timize cultivation and maximize yield. By monitoring fruit
growth, farmers can make informed decisions, such as apply-
ing chemical thinning based on fruit size, adjusting irrigation
according to growth rates, and optimizing labor for harvest
through yield estimation. Spatio-temporal (4D) mapping of
an orchard can also help enhance plant phenotyping [2],
[3] by monitoring important traits of plants and providing
insights into how they change over the entire growth season.
Hence, this motivates the problem of 4D orchard mapping,
which in this context is defined as 3D orchard mapping with
temporal information. The actionable information obtained
from 4D orchard mapping is that each fruit is associated
with a timestamp, and its state is monitored across its
growth season. In our 4D metric-semantic map, the semantics
involve detecting the presence of fruits, while metrics such
as fruits’ counts, sizes, and positions can be obtained.
We gratefully acknowledge the support of the IoT4Ag Engineering
Research Center funded by the National Science Foundation (NSF) under
NSF Cooperative Agreement Number EEC-1941529, ARL DCIST CRA
W911NF-17-2-0181, NSF Grant CCR-2112665, NIFA grant 2022-67021-
36856, and NVIDIA. We thank Prof. Drew Wilkerson, and the owners of
Hands on Earth and Shaw Orchards for their support in data collection.
J. Lei, A. Prabhu, F. Cladera, P. Chaudhari, and V. Kumar are
with the GRASP Laboratory, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
PA, 19104, USA {jiuzl, praankit, fclad, pratikac,
kumar}@seas.upenn.edu. X. Liu is with the Department of
Aeronautics and Astronautics, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305,
USA
(e-mail: xuliu@stanford.edu).
M.
Mortazavi
and
R.
Ehsani
are
with
the
Department
of
Mechanical
Engineering,
Uni-
versity of California, Merced, CA, 95343, USA {smortazavi3,
rehsani}@ucmerced.edu.
This work has been submitted to the IEEE for possible publication.
Copyright may be transferred without notice, after which this version may
no longer be accessible.
Fig. 1: A 4D metric-semantic map of an apple orchard from April to
August. Each row represents a time session. The first panel shows
the metric-semantic map. The middle panel zooms in on the 6th tree,
while the right panel presents its raw RGB image. Tree skeleton
meshes [1] are for visualization only.
While previous works, like [4], [5], [6], have demonstrated
impressive accuracy in fruit localization for a single time
session, they fall short in monitoring fruit growth over time.
Extending 3D fruit tracking to a 4D monitoring framework
requires data association of fruits across time, which remains
a challenge due to their positional changes and variations in
appearance. Existing methods, such as point cloud registra-
tion [7], feature-based image registration [8], [9], and hybrid
2D-3D approaches [10], have shown success in tracking plant
growth but lack the granularity needed for individual fruit
instances.
To address the challenges in 4D metric-semantic mapping
in orchards, we developed a 3D fruit localization module
taking LiDAR points and RGB images for fruit localization
and absolute size estimation. A two-stage data association
algorithm leveraging positional, visual, and topological in-
formation is proposed to associate fruits from different time
sessions under temporal changes. In addition, a dataset is
collected from real-world, natural orchards and made avail-
able for public access during our experiments. The dataset,
containing high-resolution RGB images and LiDAR point
clouds, could facilitate other branches of agricultural research
in small fruit detection[11], flower counting[12], tree branch
modeling[13]. Unlike most existing datasets such as [14],
arXiv:2409.19786v3  [cs.RO]  6 May 2025

[15], [16], [17], [18], which typically capture only a single
growth stage, our dataset spans the entire growth cycle, from
the bud stage through to harvest.
Our contributions can be summarized as follows:
1) We develop a mapping framework that takes in mea-
surements across multiple time sessions and constructs
a 4D metric-semantic map, along with the estimation of
the count and size of fruits, bridging the gap between
3D fruit localization and 4D fruit growth monitoring.
2) We introduce a 4D fruit association algorithm for track-
ing fruits throughout their growth season, achieving per-
formance that significantly surpasses baseline methods.
3) We publicly release a multimodal dataset capturing
LiDAR point clouds, RGB images, GPS, and IMU
measurements across an entire growth season for five
different fruits, complementing existing datasets with
extended temporal coverage.
II. RELATED WORK
3D Fruit Localization and Counting. To enable 4D
spatio-temporal data association of fruits, an accurate mea-
surement of fruits from a single time session is crucial. In
[4], [5], deep learning algorithms were used to directly count
fruits from images and obtain a yield estimate. In [6], fruits
were tracked frame by frame robustly using a combination of
the Hungarian Assignment algorithm, Kalman Filter, optical
flow [21], and Structure for Motion (SfM) algorithm for data
association and outlier rejection. To count fruits from both
sides of a row of trees and accelerate computation, Liu et
al. [22] used the fruit instances as features to replace SIFT
[23] features, which directly constructed a map of fruits and
estimated the camera trajectory. Meyer et al. [24] modeled an
orchard using NeRF, taking into consideration fruit instance
information, from which the fruits can be counted directly
in 3D space and localized. Although these works focus on
fruit localization and counting during a single time session
and demonstrate impressive fruit-counting accuracy, they fall
short of monitoring fruits across multiple time sessions. Our
work aims to bridge the gap between 3D fruit localization
and 4D fruit monitoring.
Spatial-Temporal Mapping for Agriculture. The key
component extending 3D mapping to 4D mapping is the
temporal (4D) data association. In [7], Carlone et al. regis-
tered the point clouds of crops via expectation-maximization.
Dong et al. in [8] and Nived et al. in [9] both proposed to
extract 2D image features that are robust to seasonal variation
for image registration. [10] combined both 2D and 3D visual
features to find temporal correspondences. In more recent
works, [25] and [26] proposed to match the skeletons or key
points extracted from high-precision point clouds of plants
for growth tracking and phenotyping. While these approaches
successfully monitor changes in a plot of crops or individual
plants, they lack the granularity needed in tracking fruit
instances that are subject to occlusions from canopy and
changes in position, size, and appearance.
As for applications in fruits, Riccardi et al. in [27] used
terrestrial laser scanners to obtain colored and precise fruit
point clouds. For each fruit instance, a descriptor encoding
both positions and neighboring fruit layouts was designed
for fruit matching. Fusaro et al. in [28] took colored and
high-resolution point clouds as input for fruit instance seg-
mentation. For each fruit instance, the point clouds within
a range of the fruit instance were used to extract descrip-
tors with Minkowski convolutional neural networks [29].
The extracted descriptors were then used as input to an
attention-based matching network for temporal fruit associa-
tion. However, fruit segmentation on point clouds is subject
to extensive labeling. Additionally, acquiring high-precision
point clouds can be slow compared to sensors such as RGB
cameras and lower-density LiDARs. Freeman and Kantor
[30] proposed a transformer-based model for associating
apple fruitlets over time using stereo images. Given two
stereo images of the same fruitlet cluster at different times,
shape and positional descriptors are extracted from each
fruitlet’s point cloud using a encoder-decoder architecture
based on MinkowskiEngine [29]. A transformer encoder
then refines these features, enabling fruitlet association based
on feature scores and matchability. However, this approach
assumes prior knowledge of fruitlet-cluster assignments and
focuses solely on temporal association.
When integrating 3D fruit localization with 4D fruit as-
sociation, challenges arise, including duplicated fruit counts,
missed detections, occlusion of previously seen fruits, and
the emergence of new fruits between time sessions. Our
work aims to achieve temporal fruit association under those
outlier conditions. Unlike learning-based methods for 4D
fruit association, our approach leverages pre-trained models
and heuristically derived features, eliminating the need for
neural network training.
III. PROPOSED APPROACH
The objective is to monitor the growth of fruits over time,
given the point cloud and images collected during the ego-
motion of a robot or sensor platform. The objective is divided
into solving two sub-problems: fruit localization in 3D space
and temporal tracking across multiple time sessions, which
range from weeks to months. We use time sessions to refer
to different times from June to August when the data were
collected.
In this section, we describe each module of our framework
for 4D metric-semantic mapping. A visualization of the
framework is shown in Fig. 2.
A. Spatial (3D) Localization
3D localization of fruits aims to associate fruit detections
between image frames and estimate their 3D positions in
each time session. We take the following steps:
1) Fruit Instance Point Cloud Extraction: To obtain point
clouds belonging to each fruit instance, we use LiDAR
for depth estimation and RGB images for fruit instance
segmentation. A fine-tuned YOLOv8 [20] is used for in-
stance segmentation to obtain the instance mask of each
fruit. Faster-LIO [31] is used to estimate the pose of the
sensor. Our LiDAR and RGB camera are time synchronized,

Fig. 2: System Diagram. Module 1 (green box): Our system takes in sensor data from the LiDAR, RGB camera, and Inertial Measurement
Unit (IMU). Module 2 (blue box): Object detection and odometry. First, we use Faster-LIO [19], a LiDAR-inertial odometry (LIO)
algorithm for pose estimation and point cloud motion undistortion. Meanwhile, YOLO-v8, an instance segmentation model [20], is used
on the RGB images to detect and segment fruits. Module 3 (orange box): LiDAR-RGB fusion for fruit localization. The point cloud is
back-projected into the segmentation mask to estimate the depth of a fruit. Fruit detections from different image frames are tracked using
the Hungarian assignment algorithm with mask IoU as the cost. Then, we minimize the reprojection error of fruit centroids to optimize the
fruit positions. Module 4 (purple box): 4D Data Association takes optimized 3D fruit landmarks and images as input. Fruits are associated
across sessions using our two-stage matching algorithm, with a cost function based on position, visual, and topology information. Module
5 (cyan box): 4D metric-semantic map generation. Using the 4D data association, we can construct a 4D metric-semantic map, acquiring
actionable information such as fruit counts, sizes, and positions throughout the entire growth season.
and their extrinsic (rigid body transformation) and intrinsic
parameters are calibrated before the experiments. Based on
such information, each image’s corresponding camera pose
is obtained. We then project the point clouds onto the image
plane to obtain each fruit instance’s point cloud. However,
the point cloud from a single scan is sparse. To remedy
this, we accumulate point clouds for 1.5 seconds in our
implementation. The position of each fruit is then simply the
centroid of the point cloud projected inside the segmentation
mask.
2) Tracking across Image Frames: Let fruits from two
consecutive image frames be Il = {oi, i = 1, 2, ..., m}
and Il+1 = {oj, j = 1, 2, ..., n}. To match fruits across
consecutive image frames, we seek to find an injective
mapping between the two sets of fruits that minimizes the
matching cost C(Il, Il+1). This matching problem can be
solved using the Hungarian assignment algorithm. Given the
availability of each fruit’s depth in the camera frame and the
corresponding camera poses, we compute the matching cost
using the mask Intersection over Union (IoU) as follows:
maski,l+1 = proj(T l+1
l
, pi,l)
(1)
c(oi,l, oj,l+1) = 1 −IoU(maski,l+1, maskj,l+1)
(2)
pi,l refers to the point cloud of fruit i detected at frame l,
T l+1
l
is the relative transformation from frame l to frame
l+1, maski,l+1 is the image coordinates of maski at frame
l + 1, and proj() projects 3D points into image frames. c()
calculates the assignment cost between each association pair.
To take into account the fact that not all fruits masks at
frame l can be assigned to a fruit mask at the next frame
(example in the event of a false-negative detection), the cost
matrix consists of two parts: CIoU ∈Rm×n with CIoU,ij =
c(oi,l, oj,l+1) and Cu ∈Rm×m in which all element equals
to 1 −u. u is the minimal IoU threshold to consider two
masks matched as one. Cu allows a fruit not to be matched
with any fruit detected in the next frame.
C(Il, Il+1) = [CIoU
Cu]
(3)
From this step, we obtain a set of tracks. For clarity, a
“track” refers to a sequence of associated fruit detections
across multiple image frames. To avoid overcounting due to
potential false positive detections, we only count the fruits
that have been observed in more than three consecutive
frames.
3) Re-projection Error Minimization: There are multiple
sources of errors in the aforementioned steps. The fruit
instance point clouds may include noisy points that do
not belong to the fruit, and different parts of the fruit are
observed from multiple views, leading to small variations
in position estimation. Hence, we minimize the reprojection
error of fruit positions across all image frames to improve
depth estimation. Given n camera poses and m fruit posi-
tions, we solve the following nonlinear least squares problem
to obtain optimized fruit positions and camera poses.

Date
4.4
6.3
8.2
10.1
6/23
7/7
7/21
8/4
Fruit 1
Fruit 2
Fruit 3
Fruit 4
Fruit 5
Fruit 6
Fruit 7
Fruit 8
Fruit 9
Fruit 10
Fruit 11
Fruit 12
Fruit 13
Fruit 14
Fruit 15
Fruit 16
Fruit 17
Mean
Fruit size (cm)
Fig. 3: Precise monitoring of fruit growth. The left panel shows examples of our 4D spatio-temporal fruit tracking results. The right panel
quantitatively shows how these fruits grow over time. The X-axis shows the date, and the Y-axis shows fruit sizes in cm. Different colors
represent different fruits. Fruit sizes increase over time, with varying but generally similar growth rates reflected by the slope of their
trendlines. The average fruit sizes are shown in a black dashed line with triangle markers. Our method automatically generates fruit tracks
across multiple seasons, providing users with detailed information on each fruit, such as size, color, shape, and position over time.
min
X,R,t
n
X
i=1
m
X
j=1
aij(xij −proj(Ri, ti, Xj))2
s.t.
Xj,0 −d ≤Xj ≤Xj,0 + d
(4)
where xij is the jth fruit’s pixel coordinates in the ith image
frame, Xj is the jth fruit position, Ri and ti represents the
rotational and translational components of the ith camera
pose respectively. The binary variable aij indicates whether
fruit j is present in frame i. We also constrain the problem
such that Xj is within a certain distance d from its initial
value Xj,0 to avoid optimized positions being too far away
from the initial position due to outliers.
Because of canopy occlusions and missing detections
from the instance segmentation model, some fruits may be
initially tracked, lost, and then re-tracked again in later
frames, resulting in double counts of the same fruit. It is
thus necessary to re-identify such previously tracked fruits.
Therefore, for each track and its nearby tracks within a
certain distance threshold, we project their 3D point cloud
into the same image plane. Two conditions must then be
met to re-associate the two tracks as one: (1) IoU between
the two masks is higher than a predefined threshold. (2) The
detections in each track must occur in distinct image frames.
More formally, for any two tracks, Tracki and Trackj,
representing sequences of image frame indices where the
same fruit is detected, Tracki ∩Trackj = ∅, for i̸ = j.
The 3D localization module will output the fruit counts
and their positions with each fruit assigned a unique index.
B. Spatio-temporal (4D) Tracking
4D tracking aims to find fruit correspondences between
two consecutive time sessions. Given the output of the 3D
localization and the images from two time sessions, we
match fruits from different times in two stages. In the first
stage, for each image Ia from time session A, we find
an image Ib from time session B with the most similar
view. Then Hungarian assignment algorithm with a cost
function Cost = Cvisual +Cposition considering both visual
similarities and Euclidean distance is applied to associate
fruits detected in Ia and Ib. Each fruit instance fi from
time session A could be associated with one or multiple
fruit instances appearing in different image frames from
time session B. We denote the association results using
M(fi) = {fj,b}, where fi is the fruit index in time session
A, and fj,b is the fruit fj’s index in time session B and
it appears in image Ib. (eg. M(fi = 2) = {fj=0,b=0 =
0, fj=0,b=1 = 0, fj=1,b=1 = 1}). Fruits with the same
subscript j mean they are the same fruit instance, but we add
subscript b to indicate that they are associated with fi when
fj is detected in image Ib. A fruit instance in time session
A may be associated with different fruits in different image
frames in time session B due to missing detections (caused
by canopy occlusion or the instance segmentation model
failing to detect fruits), duplicated fruit counts (resulting
from unsuccessful re-tracking in 3D tracking), and temporal
position changes.
The purpose of the first stage of matching is to extract
a subset of fruits from both time sessions to serve as
reference points in the images, which will be used to quan-
tify topological similarities for the next stage of matching.
These reference points must be reliably and consistently
matched across different images, analogous to how SIFT
image features are used for feature registration between two
images. We select reliable reference fruits by thresholding
the entropy H(M(fi)) for each fruit instance in time session
A. Lower entropy means one fruit tends to be associated
with another fruit consistently across different views. In the
implementation, we set the threshold to be 0.8.
In the second stage, the matching process is repeated
except for the cost function which also takes into account
the topology information, Cost = Cvisual + Cposition +
Ctopology. The cost between matched reference fruits will
be 0. For each fruit instance fi in time session A, a majority
vote is taken on M(fi) to determine its final matched fruit
in time session B. Refer to Algorithm 1 for the matching
process described above.
Different sources of information are leveraged in the
above-mentioned cost function, and this is done as follows:
Position cost: The position cost is the Euclidean distance
between two fruits. However, the fruits positions from dif-
ferent time sessions may not be expressed in the same coor-
dinate frames. We obtain the precise relative transformation
between the coordinate frames by aligning the point clouds
from two successive temporal sessions using Iterative Closest
Point (ICP) algorithm [32]. Fruit positions are transformed
into the same reference frame before computing the position
cost.
Visual cost: For each fruit detected in image ia, we crop
a sub-image surrounding the detected fruit with it in the

Algorithm 1 Two-Stage 4D Data Association
Require: Images IA, IB and counted fruits {fi}, {fj} from
two time sessions A and B.
1: Initialize M(fi) as an empty dictionary.
2: for each image Ia in session A do
3:
Ib ←arg minb∈B ||Dino(Ia)−Dino(IB)||2, to find
the image Ib of the most similar view in time session B.
4:
Apply Hungarian assignment between the fruits
{fi,a} and {fj,b} detected in Ia and Ib using Cost =
Cvisual + Cposition. Add fi as the key and fj,b as the
value into M.
5: Select reliable matches {(fi, most common(M(fi)))}
where entropy H(M(fi)) < θthres.
6: Repeat step 1 to 4 using Cost = Cvisual + Cposition +
Ctopology
7: return Set of matches {(fi, most common(M(fi)))}.
center. The backbone of DINOv2 [33] is used to extract
visual features from the sub-image. The visual feature is a
h × w × n matrix. The visual cost between fruits fi and fj
would be
Cvisual(fi, fj) = ∥Dino(fi) −Dino(fj)∥2
(5)
Topology cost: Topology information, which refers to
the spatial relationship between fruits in the same image
frame, also remains consistent under temporal changes. As
presented in [27], [34], this information is encoded by dis-
cretizing the space around a target and counting the number
of surrounding objects within each discretized cell to con-
struct a histogram descriptor. However, the effectiveness of
these features depends on the resolution of the discretization.
A resolution that is too coarse may reduce descriptiveness,
while an overly fine resolution can introduce noise due to
occlusions and temporal fruit position changes. Instead of
discretization, we use detected fruits as the feature points
in an image. The topology descriptor comprises n vectors
pointing from the target fruit to reference fruits in the image
coordinate frame. For two fruits with their corresponding
topology descriptors⃗ak,⃗bk, k = 0, 1, 2, ..., n −1,
Ctopology(fi, fj) =

n
(⃗ak,⃗bk),
cos−1
 ⃗
ak ·⃗bk
∥⃗ak∥∥⃗bk∥
!
> θthres
o
(6)
The cost is the number of pairs of vectors between which
the angle is larger than a threshold. In the implementation,
the angle threshold is set to be 10◦.
For the topology cost and visual cost to be effective, the
two images used in the cost computation must be captured
from a similar viewpoint. To ensure this, we compare their
DinoV2 latent features to identify viewpoint similarity. Ad-
ditionally, we normalize the position cost and visual cost to
bring them to the same scale, while keeping the topology
cost unchanged. This allows the topology cost to function as
a penalty term, rejecting false matches that violate topology
consistency.
IV. 4D MULTI-MODAL DATASETS IN ORCHARDS
This section gives more details on the collected data. The
data was collected by scanning the sides of a row of fruit
trees as shown in the object detection and odometry module
of Fig. 2. It includes LiDAR point clouds, RGB images,
RGB-D data, IMU, and GPS measurements collected from
April to August 2024 across 284 trees: 120 apple trees, 63
pear trees, 50 peach trees, 34 cherry trees, and 17 pistachio
trees.
Sensor Suite Our sensor suite is shown in the leftmost
(inputs) panel of Fig. 2. It consists of an Ouster OS0-128
LiDAR along with a FLIR Chameleon global-shutter RGB
camera and an Intel RealSense D435i RGB-Depth (RGB-D)
camera. It also consists of a high-quality VectorNav VN-
100 IMU and UBlox ZED-F9P for GPS measurements. We
compute the extrinsic calibration between the LiDAR and
the global shutter RGB camera by using an initial estimate
from the sensor tower’s CAD model. We further refine the
calibration by manually aligning the projected point cloud
with an RGB image using a calibration board. Such sensors
can be deployed on a quadrotor as shown in Fig. 2
Orchard Overview Data was collected every two or three
weeks from the start of the growing season (early April) until
late August.
The types of orchards from which we collected datasets
include apple, peach, pear, cherry, and pistachio orchards.
The sites where we collected apple and pear datasets are
located at the Hands on Earth Orchard, Lititz, Pennsylvania,
USA. The apple, peach, and cherry datasets were collected
from the Shaw Orchards, Harford, Maryland, USA. Finally,
the pistachio dataset was collected at Merced, California,
USA.
V. RESULTS AND ANALYSIS
This section presents our results and analysis. We evaluate
our approach in terms of 3D fruit counting error, 4D fruit as-
sociation precision, and the accuracy of fruit size estimation
for downstream tasks, such as estimating fruit growth rate. In
each subsection, we first describe how the ground truth data
is obtained, followed by an explanation of the evaluation
metrics, and conclude with an analysis of the quantitative
results.
A. 3D Fruit Counting
Accurately obtaining ground truth by counting fruits in
an orchard is challenging due to the possibility of double-
counting. To address this, fruits are manually counted from
images extracted from video streams, aided by digital mark-
ers to track counted fruits. However, double-counting may
still occur when the same tree appears in multiple frames.
While image stitching can create panoramas for counting,
it may introduce artifacts that blur fruits. Instead, images,
where each tree is fully visible and centered, are selected

25
50
75
100
125
1, 2
3,4,5
6, 7
8, 9
10, 11
12, 13
14, 15
16, 17, 18
19, 20, 21
22, 23, 24
25, 26, 27
28, 29, 30
31, 32, 33
34, 35, 36
37, 38, 39
40, 41, 42
43, 44, 45
46, 47, 48
49, 50, 51
52, 53, 54
55, 56, 57
58, 59, 60
Ground Truth Fruit Count
Estimated Fruit Count
Per-Tree-Batch Counts
Fig. 4: Fruit count ground truth vs. estimated (Y-axis) per tree batch (X-axis). The X-axis represents the IDs of trees included in each
batch, with batches containing 2 to 3 trees. For each batch, the estimated counts closely align with the human-labeled ground truth,
demonstrating the accuracy of our system. Detailed statistics are provided in Table I.
Stats. (Total Count)
Results
Estimated / Ground Truth
1846 / 1790
Absolute (Abs.) Error (Err.)
56 / 3.1%
Stats. (Per Tree Batch Counts)
Results
Mean of Abs. Err.
6.0 / 8.0%
Std Dev of Abs. Err.
5.0 / 6.4%
TABLE I: Total count and per-tree-batch count statistics. Our
method can accurately estimate the yield, as indicated by the 3.1%
error on the total count over 1790 fruits. The mean and standard
deviation of per-tree-batch counts are calculated from all 22 batches.
with careful marking and boundary tracking to prevent
duplication.
The 3D localization is evaluated using the counting error.
Our 3D fruit counting results are detailed in Table I. For
a total of 60 apple trees, the 3D tracking method gives
a 3.1% total count error. We estimate 1846 apples from
our algorithm, and when compared to the ground truth of
1790 apples, it gives us an absolute total count error of
56 apples. Compared to ground truth, our method tends to
overestimate counts, primarily due to (1) double counting
some fruits due to noisy fruit instance point clouds and (2)
counting fruits fallen on the ground, which are excluded
when we generate the ground truth. In particular, noisy fruit
instance point clouds are obtained because some small and
partially occluded fruits cannot accurately be fused from the
RGB detections and the point clouds. Hence, they contain
noisy background point clouds, which induce errors in their
estimated 3D positions.
Fig. 4 shows a per tree-batch count estimation compared to
the corresponding ground truth. A total of 22 batches, each
with two or three trees, was created from 60 apple trees,
and their per-batch fruit count was compared with the per-
batch ground truth. Trees were separated into these batches
based on how easily human annotators can distinguish tree
boundaries to generate accurate ground truth counts. We
decided to use tree batches for method evaluation instead of
individual trees because, when trees are very close together,
it is challenging to accurately assign fruits to one or the other.
As seen from Fig. 4, our method consistently estimates fruit
counts for trees despite the varying fruit densities. Similarly,
the low standard deviation of absolute count error (5 apples)
and the small mean of absolute count error (6 apples) shown
in Table I demonstrates the counting accuracy of our method.
B. 4D Fruit Association
To get the 4D fruit association ground truth, we manually
match the fruits from five trees using images for each of the
Fruit index
4.0
6.0
8.0
10.0
12.0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Estimated Sizes
Ground Truth Sizes
Fruit size (cm)
Fig. 5: Fruit size ground truth vs. estimated. The mean and standard
deviation of absolute errors in fruit size estimates are 1.10 cm (0.43
inch) and 0.45 cm (0.18 inch).
Fig. 6: 4D Fruit Association Evaluation in terms of Precision and
F1 Score. From left to right, the first two bars are the results from
baselines; the remaining bars represent ablation study results.
Fig. 7: Effect of removing data on the F1 scores for 4D fruit
association.
three consecutive time sessions—June 12th to July 4th, July
4th to July 19th, and July 19th to August 13th. We exclude
a minority (less than 5 percent) of fruits that are ambiguous
to match for humans. The 4D data association is evaluated
based on two metrics: precision and F1 score. Higher pre-
cision means fewer incorrect fruit matches, while higher
recall indicates that fewer correct matches were missed.
However, F1 score is reported instead of recall for more
meaningful evaluation because of two reasons: 1) Recall
in our experiment is also affected by the matching range

Fig. 8: 4D Fruit Matching. The left panel illustrates the fruit matching between June 12th and July 4th, the middle panel between July
4th and July 19th, and the right panel between July 19th and August 13th. Red dots are fruits detected in the image frame from one time
session. Blue dots are the fruits detected in the image frame from another time session. Matched fruits are linked with a line.
(eg. fruits from different time sessions that are 0.3 m away
are not considered for matching.) A larger matching range
tends to give a higher recall. 2) Failure to match fruits that
should be matched usually has minimal effect on fruit growth
monitoring. We usually have enough samples/matches to
estimate the fruit growth rate, while falsely matching two
fruits would lead to errors. Precision and F1 scores are
calculated from the number of true positives (TP), false
positives (FP), and false negatives (FN). We define TP to
be correctly matched fruits, FP to be incorrectly matched
fruits, FN to be the fruits that should be matched but are
predicted to have no available fruits to match with.
Refer to Fig. 6 for the results on our approaches against
the two baselines. The first baseline is to match fruits based
on 3D positions only and associate them using the Hungarian
assignment algorithm. The second baseline is a modified
version of the algorithm proposed by Riccardi et al. in
[27], where a histogram descriptor is designed to perform
Hungarian assignment. Since the code of [27] is not open-
sourced, we re-implemented the algorithm and made the
following modifications: 1) normalized the position cost and
the cost based on histogram descriptors for them to be on
the same scale which gives better performance than without
normalization; 2) we excluded the use of fruit radius in the
cost function as radius estimation of occluded fruits is not
reliable in our case. Similarly, we used Optuna[35] on a
subset of the fruits to tune the hyperparameters required by
the baseline method. The average precision of our approach
over the 4 time sessions is 93.5%. The average F1 score is
92.1%. Our approach improves the 4D fruit association by
23.7% in precision and 11.9% in F1 score in comparison
with the second baseline.
We conduct an ablation study to assess the contribution
of different costs to 4D fruit association. Refer to Fig. 6 for
quantitative results. Combining position and visual informa-
tion achieves comparable results to baselines. The inclusion
of topology information further enhances matching precision
by reducing false positives. However, the topology cost could
mistakenly reject fruits that should be matched. We analyze
the handling of FP by the topology cost to demonstrate
the effectiveness: 43.2% of the reduced FP are correctly
rejected, 28.4% are corrected to be TP, but 28.4% of the
reduced FP are incorrectly rejected when they should be
TP. Furthermore, we compare the F1 scores of our methods
against two baseline approaches by simulating real-world
challenges such as occlusion, missed detections, and the
emergence of new fruits, achieved by removing a percentage
of fruits from the input to the 4D association method. As
shown in Fig. 7, the proposed 4D fruit association method
consistently outperforms baseline methods, even when up
to 50% of the fruits are removed, highlighting its superior
reliability to occlusion and missing data.
C. Fruit Change Tracking and Size Estimation
In Fig. 5, we show that we can accurately estimate the
size (diameter) of fruits up to a mean absolute error of
1.1 cm. For this experiment, we created a physical, real-
world simulation of an apple tree in an orchard by manually
attaching 19 apples to a similar tree. This was done since
hand measuring and obtaining ground truth sizes of fruits in
orchards is challenging due to difficulties in establishing a
one-to-one association between ground truth and estimates.
The fruits were hand-measured using a Vernier caliper to
obtain their size ground truths. As seen from Fig. 5, the size
estimates closely follow the ground truth measurements. The
errors induced in the size measurements are mainly due to
the presence of background points such as leaves and stems
in the segmentation mask of the fruits, which in turn inflates
the extracted 3D fruit point clouds, leading to slightly larger
size estimates compared to the ground truth. Further, we also
show results on using our method to track the changes in the
growth of fruits in uncontrolled orchards over multiple time
sessions, as shown in the right panel of Fig. 3.
A visualization of our 4D tracking results on one example
tree is shown in Fig. 8. Spatio-temporal tracking of fruits
allows for close monitoring of fruit size and appearance
changes. An example of this can be seen in the left panel of
Fig. 3 where each individual fruit is tracked and visualized
across its growth progress. The resulting 4D metric-semantic
map of the orchard, shown in Fig. 1, illustrates how fruit
sizes, canopy structure, and the overall appearance of both
fruits and trees change over time.
VI. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
This paper presents methods and datasets for 4D metric-
semantic mapping of orchards. Real-world experiments
demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach,
achieving a 3.1% counting error in 3D fruit tracking and
localization, a mean size estimation error of 1.10 cm for
metric mapping, and a 23.7% improvement in tracking
precision over baseline methods. However, the proposed

method also has some limitations. LiDAR sparsity limits
the localization and size estimation of small fruits. In 4D
fruit association, reliable reference point selection is enforced
by a strict threshold, but outliers can still be chosen when
computing topology cost.
Furthermore, we aim to enable autonomous robots like
UAVs for agricultural robotics. While a hand-carried sensor
stack is currently used to map orchards, it can readily be
mounted on robots, allowing them for autonomous data
collection and orchard monitoring.
REFERENCES
[1] S.
Du,
R.
Lindenbergh,
H.
Ledoux,
J.
Stoter,
and
L.
Nan,
“Adtree: Accurate, detailed, and automatic modelling of laser-scanned
trees,” Remote Sensing, vol. 11, no. 18, 2019. [Online]. Available:
https://www.mdpi.com/2072-4292/11/18/2074
[2] F. Fiorani and U. Schurr, “Future scenarios for plant phenotyping,”
Annual review of plant biology, vol. 64, no. 1, pp. 267–291, 2013.
[3] M. Watt, F. Fiorani, B. Usadel, U. Rascher, O. Muller, and U. Schurr,
“Phenotyping: new windows into the plant for breeders,” Annual
review of plant biology, vol. 71, no. 1, pp. 689–712, 2020.
[4] S. W. Chen, S. S. Shivakumar, S. Dcunha, J. Das, E. Okon, C. Qu,
C. J. Taylor, and V. Kumar, “Counting apples and oranges with deep
learning: A data-driven approach,” IEEE Robotics and Automation
Letters, vol. 2, no. 2, pp. 781–788, 2017.
[5] S. Bargoti and J. P. Underwood, “Image segmentation for fruit
detection and yield estimation in apple orchards,” Journal of Field
Robotics, vol. 34, no. 6, pp. 1039–1060, 2017.
[6] X. Liu, S. W. Chen, S. Aditya, N. Sivakumar, S. Dcunha, C. Qu,
C. J. Taylor, J. Das, and V. Kumar, “Robust fruit counting: Combining
deep learning, tracking, and structure from motion,” in 2018 IEEE/RSJ
international Conference on intelligent robots and systems (IROS).
IEEE, 2018, pp. 1045–1052.
[7] L. Carlone, J. Dong, S. Fenu, G. Rains, and F. Dellaert, “Towards
4d crop analysis in precision agriculture: Estimating plant height
and crown radius over time via expectation-maximization,” in ICRA
Workshop on Robotics in Agriculture, 2015, pp. 1–8.
[8] J. Dong, J. G. Burnham, B. Boots, G. Rains, and F. Dellaert, “4d crop
monitoring: Spatio-temporal reconstruction for agriculture,” in 2017
IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA).
IEEE, 2017, pp. 3878–3885.
[9] N. Chebrolu, T. L¨abe, and C. Stachniss, “Robust long-term registration
of uav images of crop fields for precision agriculture,” IEEE Robotics
and Automation Letters, vol. 3, no. 4, pp. 3097–3104, 2018.
[10] L. Lobefaro, M. V. R. Malladi, O. Vysotska, T. Guadagnino,
and C. Stachniss, “Estimating 4d data associations towards spatial-
temporal mapping of growing plants for agricultural robots,” in 2023
IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems
(IROS), 2023, pp. 4212–4218.
[11] X. Mai, H. Zhang, and M. Q.-H. Meng, “Faster r-cnn with classifier
fusion for small fruit detection,” in 2018 IEEE International Confer-
ence on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2018, pp. 7166–7172.
[12] G. Farjon, O. Krikeb, A. B. Hillel, and V. Alchanatis, “Detection
and counting of flowers on apple trees for better chemical thinning
decisions,” Precision Agriculture, vol. 21, pp. 503–521, 2020.
[13] C. Zhang, G. Yang, Y. Jiang, B. Xu, X. Li, Y. Zhu, L. Lei, R. Chen,
Z. Dong, and H. Yang, “Apple tree branch information extraction from
terrestrial laser scanning and backpack-lidar,” Remote Sensing, vol. 12,
no. 21, p. 3592, 2020.
[14] J. Gen´e-Mola, E. Gregorio Lopez, F. Auat Cheein, D. J. Guevara,
J. Llorens Calveras, R. Sanz, A. Escol`a, and J. Rosell-Polo, “Lfuji-air
dataset: Annotated 3d lidar point clouds of fuji apple trees for fruit
detection scanned under different forced air flow conditions,” Data in
Brief, vol. 29, p. 105248, 02 2020.
[15] J. Gen´e-Mola, R. Sanz-Cortiella, J. R. Rosell-Polo, J.-R. Morros,
J. Ruiz-Hidalgo, V. Vilaplana, and E. Gregorio, “Fuji-sfm dataset:
A collection of annotated images and point clouds for fuji apple
detection and location using structure-from-motion photogrammetry,”
Data in Brief, vol. 30, p. 105591, 2020. [Online]. Available: https:
//www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352340920304856
[16] S. Bargoti and J. Underwood, “Deep fruit detection in orchards,”
in 2017 IEEE international conference on robotics and automation
(ICRA).
IEEE, 2017, pp. 3626–3633.
[17] N. H¨ani, P. Roy, and V. Isler, “Minneapple: A benchmark dataset for
apple detection and segmentation,” IEEE Robotics and Automation
Letters, vol. 5, no. 2, pp. 852–858, 2020.
[18] Y. Lu and S. Young, “A survey of public datasets for computer
vision tasks in precision agriculture,” Computers and Electronics in
Agriculture, vol. 178, p. 105760, 2020. [Online]. Available: https:
//www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168169920312709
[19] C. Bai, T. Xiao, Y. Chen, H. Wang, F. Zhang, and X. Gao, “Faster-
lio: Lightweight tightly coupled lidar-inertial odometry using parallel
sparse incremental voxels,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters,
vol. 7, no. 2, pp. 4861–4868, 2022.
[20] G. Jocher, A. Chaurasia, and J. Qiu, “YOLO by Ultralytics,” Jan.
2023. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/ultralytics/ultralytics
[21] B. D. Lucas and T. Kanade, “An iterative image registration technique
with an application to stereo vision,” in Proceedings of the 7th
International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence - Volume
2, ser. IJCAI’81.
San Francisco, CA, USA: Morgan Kaufmann
Publishers Inc., 1981, pp. 674–679.
[22] X. Liu, S. W. Chen, C. Liu, S. S. Shivakumar, J. Das, C. J. Taylor,
J. Underwood, and V. Kumar, “Monocular camera based fruit counting
and mapping with semantic data association,” IEEE Robotics and
Automation Letters, vol. 4, no. 3, pp. 2296–2303, 2019.
[23] D. G. Lowe, “Distinctive image features from scale-invariant key-
points,” International journal of computer vision, vol. 60, pp. 91–110,
2004.
[24] L. Meyer, A. Gilson, U. Schmid, and M. Stamminger, “Fruitnerf: A
unified neural radiance field based fruit counting framework,” 2024.
[Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.06190
[25] F. Magistri, N. Chebrolu, and C. Stachniss, “Segmentation-based 4d
registration of plants point clouds for phenotyping,” in 2020 IEEE/RSJ
International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS),
2020, pp. 2433–2439.
[26] N. Chebrolu, T. L¨abe, and C. Stachniss, “Spatio-temporal non-rigid
registration of 3d point clouds of plants,” in 2020 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2020, pp. 3112–
3118.
[27] A. Riccardi, S. Kelly, E. Marks, F. Magistri, T. Guadagnino, J. Behley,
M. Bennewitz, and C. Stachniss, “Fruit tracking over time using high-
precision point clouds,” in 2023 IEEE International Conference on
Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2023, pp. 9630–9636.
[28] D. Fusaro, F. Magistri, J. Behley, A. Pretto, and C. Stachniss, “Hor-
ticultural temporal fruit monitoring via 3d instance segmentation and
re-identification using point clouds,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.07799,
2024.
[29] C. Choy, J. Gwak, and S. Savarese, “4d spatio-temporal convnets:
Minkowski convolutional neural networks,” in Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition,
2019, pp. 3075–3084.
[30] H. Freeman and G. Kantor, “Transformer-based spatio-temporal
association of apple fruitlets,” 2025. [Online]. Available: https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2503.03200
[31] C. Bai, T. Xiao, Y. Chen, H. Wang, F. Zhang, and X. Gao, “Faster-
lio: Lightweight tightly coupled lidar-inertial odometry using parallel
sparse incremental voxels,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters,
vol. 7, no. 2, pp. 4861–4868, 2022.
[32] S. Rusinkiewicz and M. Levoy, “Efficient variants of the icp algo-
rithm,” in Proceedings Third International Conference on 3-D Digital
Imaging and Modeling, 2001, pp. 145–152.
[33] M. Oquab, T. Darcet, T. Moutakanni, H. Vo, M. Szafraniec,
V. Khalidov, P. Fernandez, D. Haziza, F. Massa, A. El-Nouby,
M. Assran, N. Ballas, W. Galuba, R. Howes, P.-Y. Huang, S.-W. Li,
I. Misra, M. Rabbat, V. Sharma, G. Synnaeve, H. Xu, H. Jegou,
J. Mairal, P. Labatut, A. Joulin, and P. Bojanowski, “Dinov2:
Learning robust visual features without supervision,” 2024. [Online].
Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.07193
[34] A. Sadeghian, A. Alahi, and S. Savarese, “Tracking the untrackable:
Learning to track multiple cues with long-term dependencies,” 2017.
[Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/1701.01909
[35] T. Akiba, S. Sano, T. Yanase, T. Ohta, and M. Koyama, “Optuna:
A next-generation hyperparameter optimization framework,” in Pro-
ceedings of the 25th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on
Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, 2019.
