Robust Fruit Counting: Combining Deep Learning, Tracking, and Structure
from Motion
Xu Liu, Steven W. Chen, Shreyas Aditya, Nivedha Sivakumar, Sandeep Dcunha,
Chao Qu, Camillo J. Taylor, Jnaneshwar Das, and Vijay Kumar
Abstract— We present a novel fruit counting pipeline that
combines deep segmentation, frame to frame tracking, and
3D localization to accurately count visible fruits across a
sequence of images. Our pipeline works on image streams
from a monocular camera, both in natural light, as well
as with controlled illumination at night. We ﬁrst train a
Fully Convolutional Network (FCN) and segment video frame
images into fruit and non-fruit pixels. We then track fruits
across frames using the Hungarian Algorithm where the
objective cost is determined from a Kalman Filter corrected
Kanade-Lucas-Tomasi (KLT) Tracker. In order to correct the
estimated count from tracking process, we combine tracking
results with a Structure from Motion (SfM) algorithm to
calculate relative 3D locations and size estimates to reject
outliers and double counted fruit tracks. We evaluate our
algorithm by comparing with ground-truth human-annotated
visual counts. Our results demonstrate that our pipeline is able
to accurately and reliably count fruits across image sequences,
and the correction step can signiﬁcantly improve the counting
accuracy and robustness. Although discussed in the context of
fruit counting, our work can extend to detection, tracking, and
counting of a variety of other stationary features of interest
such as leaf-spots, wilt, and blossom.
I. INTRODUCTION
The ability to obtain fruit counts from videos allows
growers to better optimize management and harvest decisions
such as labor allocation, storage, packaging, and harvest
scheduling. Despite recent progress in using deep learning
to improve fruit detection from static images, counting from
videos still remains a challenge due to outliers originating
from fruit tracking and localization errors [1], [2], [3]. The
problem of getting the fruit counts from a video can be
addressed using the framework tracking by detection [4] con-
sisting of two phases: fruit detection, followed by tracking
and counting (Fig. 1).
Applying this framework to the fruit counting problem
is challenging for a variety of reasons. First, the algorithm
needs to generalize across different fruit types and environ-
ments that can vary greatly based on illumination conditions,
tree shapes, orchard arrangements, etc. While, most previous
algorithms use hand-engineered features for each speciﬁc
scenario to detect the fruit [5], recent works exploit deep
learning algorithms that perform well across a variety of
conditions [2], [6], [7]. Second, after obtaining detections
for each image frame, these individual detections must be
The
authors
are
with
GRASP
Lab,
University
of
Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA, {liuxu, chenste, ashreyas,
nivedha, sdcunha, quchao, cjtaylor, djnan,
kumar}@seas.upenn.edu.
Fig. 1: Fruit tracking by detection: The top two panels show oranges
during the day, and the bottom two panels show green apples at
night. The count obtained by our detection and tracking algorithm
is corrected by using 3D locations and relative size estimates of the
fruits to remove outliers and double counted fruit tracks.
tracked across the frames in order to prevent over-counting
of the same fruit. This step is also challenging in unstructured
environments, as double-counting of fruit can still result from
occlusion or illumination variation.
This paper introduces a pipeline that expands upon our
previous works on tracking and counting in 2D with a hand-
designed detection algorithm [1], and accurate detection
using deep segmentation models [2]. The ﬁrst step of our
pipeline uses a sample set of human-generated ground-truth
labels to train a Fully Convolutional Network (FCN) that
segments individual frame images into fruit and non-fruit
pixels. The next step uses the Hungarian Algorithm with
an objective cost computed from using a Kalman Filter
corrected KLT tracker. The third step localizes the fruit in 3D
using a Structure from Motion (SfM) algorithm that tracks
Scale-Invariant Feature Transform (SIFT) features that are
located near the fruit regions. This last stage corrects the
fruit count by eliminating double counted fruits and potential
arXiv:1804.00307v2  [cs.CV]  2 Aug 2018

Fig. 2: Our fruit counting pipeline consists of detection, tracking, and 3D localization stages. The segmentation stage uses an FCN to
segment image into fruit and non-fruit pixels. The tracking stage then tracks the fruits based on the FCN outputs. The 3D localization
stage uses SfM reconstruction to estimate fruit 3D locations and size. Finally, based on these localization and size estimation results, we
correct the total fruit count from tracking stage, and obtain the corrected fruit count.
outliers in terms of size and location. In addition, these size
estimates are useful in estimating yield and analyzing crop
growth. We evaluate our algorithm by comparing with human
annotated ground-truth visual count on orange and apple
data and report accuracy both before and after correction.
These results demonstrate accuracy and consistency of our
algorithm in counting fruits across image sequences.
The main contributions of our paper are: (1) to the best
of our knowledge, the ﬁrst application of a deep learning
segmentation network into a pipeline that counts fruits across
an image sequence obtained from a monocular camera; and
(2) the introduction of a count correction based on 3D
localization and size distribution estimates that signiﬁcantly
improves the accuracy and error standard deviation of the
count estimates by rejecting false positives. A video of
our algorithm can be found at: https://youtu.be/
5pSemkmVMRc or http://label.ag/iros18.mp4.
II. RELATED WORK
Deep learning techniques have recently replaced tradi-
tional hand-engineered computer vision techniques as the
state of the art for fruit detection, segmentation and counting
in a single image. The Faster Regions with Convolutional
Neural Networks (Faster R-CNN) architecture has been used
for detection of mangoes, almonds, apples, and a variety
of other fruits [8], [6], [7]. Chen et al. use the Fully
Convolutional Network (FCN) to segment the image into
candidate regions and CNN to count the fruit within each
region [2]. Rahnemoonfar and Sheppard train an Inception
style architecture to directly count the number of tomatoes in
an image, demonstrating that in some scenarios these deep
networks can even be trained using synthetic data [9]. Barth
et al. also generate synthetic data to train deep neural net-
works to segment pepper images [10]. Our work differs from
these previous works by expanding the counting problem
from a single image to an image sequence. This extension
is more challenging since it requires tracking of the fruits
across image frames.
Most approaches that track fruits across image frames use
some combination of Structure from Motion (SfM), Hungar-
ian algorithm, Optical Flow, and Kalman Filters to provide
the corresponding assignments of fruits across frames. Roy
and Isler [11] use apple contours in an SfM pipeline to
generate dense matches and reconstruct the apples in 3D.
They use this 3D reconstruction to count and measure the
apple diameters. Das et al. use a Support Vector Machine
(SVM) to detect fruits, and use optical ﬂow to associate the
fruits in between frames [1]. Wang et al. use stereo cameras
to count red and green apples by taking images at night in
order to control the illumination to exploit specular reﬂection
features [12]. They get the 3D locations of each apple in
order to merge multiple detections of the same fruit, and use
these 3D locations to count the total number of fruit.
These previous tracking approaches differ from our work
because they use traditional computer vision techniques to
segment the fruit from the images. As a result, they must rely
on controlled illumination of the orchards, which previous
work has noted as a limitation [1]. Thus, our primary
contribution is the integration of deep learning methods for
fruit segmentation with SfM techniques for fruit tracking,
resulting in a generalizable and robust monocular pipeline
that removes double-counted fruits by exploiting 3D loca-
tions and relative size distribution estimation.
III. PROBLEM FORMULATION
Consider a sequence of n images I = (Ik)n
k=1 of trees
containing fruit of the same type. The image sequence I has
a state z ∈N representing the count of visible fruit in this
image sequence I.
Visible
Fruit
Counting: Given a set of m image
sequences {I(j)}m
j=1, our goal is to ﬁnd the mapping
f : I(j) →z(j) ∈N to produce visual count from the image
sequence set. The discrepancy between this estimate z(j) and
the true visual count ˆz(j) is captured through the L1 loss,
deﬁning the metric used for the evaluation of our algorithm.
m
X
j=1
|f(I(j)) −ˆz(j)|
(1)
IV. PROPOSED APPROACH
We break the overall visible fruit counting problem into
three sub-problems: (1) Segmentation of candidate fruit
regions, (2) Tracking of regions between frames, and (3)
3D reconstruction in order to detect false positives generated
during the segmentation and tracking steps. As depicted
in Fig. 2, our approach addresses each subproblem and
combines the individual outputs together in order to generate
the estimated fruit count of the entire image sequence. Use

Fig. 3: Segmentation Results for daytime orange (top), and night-
time green apples (bottom). The FCN network is able to detect most
fruits, including highly occluded ones, in both datasets.
in low-resource setting is a potential future scope of our
pipeline, where the imagery may only be obtained from off-
the-shelf cameras. As a result, we limit our sensor inputs
only to RGB images generated by a monocular camera.
A. Segmentation with Deep Learning
Many recent fruit detection and segmentation works have
shown state-of-the-art performance with various deep learn-
ing algorithms [6], [7], [13]. We expand on our previous
work [2] by employing the same Fully Convolutional Net-
work (FCN) architecture [14] used in segmenting candidate
fruit regions.
Obtaining
ground
truth:
Our
previous
work
has
noted that after utilizing standard data augmentation tech-
niques [15], training the FCN for fruit segmentation using
only a few labeled images as data, achieves reasonable
performance due to the high similarity in fruit appearances.
However, obtaining large amounts of labeled data is still
important to increase generalization ability and to perform
evaluation.
In our previous work, we developed a web-based labeling
framework called label.ag to quickly collect and store
ground truth labels from a team of human labelers. Instead
of pixel-wise label masks, the labels are represented in the
vector based Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) format that
stores locations and radii of circles. This SVG representation
is a more ﬂexible representation since the circles can be used
to generate other label representations such as label masks,
and fruit counts.
Fruit segmentation network: Our neural network ar-
chitecture is an FCN that segments the image into fruit
pixels and non-fruit pixels. The FCN differs from classical
convolutional networks because it does not utilize any fully
connected layers. Utilizing only convolutional and deconvo-
lutional layers allows the network to perform segmentation
tasks instead of classiﬁcation or regression.
Fig. 4: Tracking result: (Lines: fruit trajectories. Boxes: green:
counted fruits, cyan: tracked fruits, blue: new detections). The ar-
row shows the opposite direction of camera motion. The trajectories
show that the tracking process is stable. Most fruits are recorded
as counted fruits before disappearing, and most false positives are
either new detections or tracked fruits. Since we only count counted
fruits, such false positives have no negative inﬂuence in ﬁnal count.
The FCN takes in an image and outputs a score map of
size h × w × n, where h and w are the height and width of
the image, and n is the number of classes. Every pixel has
its own score of class participation. For example, the score
for pixel (i, j) belonging to class k is represented by xijk
element in the score map. Our FCN has the same structure
as the original FCN [14], which is based on the VGG
Network architecture used in image classiﬁcation [16]. The
main difference is that our network has 2 classes (fruit and
not-fruit) rather than the original 21 classes. Using the same
architecture allows for quick training as we can initialize
weights as the VGG network weights. An example of our
segmentation results is illustrated in Fig. 3.
B. Tracking between frames
The fruit candidate region output from our deep learning
fruit segmentation stage is used as the input into the tracking
stage. This part of our pipeline is used to obtain association
across the image frames, and is a necessary step to obtain
fruit counts for the entire image sequence as opposed to an
individual image.
The tracking task is essentially a Multiple Hypothesis
Tracking (MHT) problem [17], which is extensively dis-
cussed in a variety of contexts, including fruit tracking [1].
The input to our MHT problem is a sequence of binary
image masks representing pixel-wise classiﬁcation of fruit
and non-fruits, and the output are fruit objects parameterized
by spatial location u and v in pixel space and frame k.
The ﬁrst step is to convert pixels into fruit objects. Since
the pixel-wise outputs of the FCN will have fruit pixels that
are naturally clustered together; this step is simpliﬁed as
we can perform contour analysis. The region inside every

contour represents our initial guess for the fruit.
We now need to assign the fruits from image Ik to the
next image Ik+1. We can formulate our problem as a graph
problem. Supposing we have a complete bipartite graph
G = (S, T ; E) where the vertices s ∈S represent the
candidate fruit regions in image Ik, and the vertices t ∈T
are the candidate fruit regions in image Ik+1. Since the graph
is complete, there is an edge (s, t) ∈E ∀s ∈S, t ∈T .
Each edge (s, t) has an associated cost c(s, t) which can
be arbitrarily chosen. Finding the perfect matching with
minimum cost of graph G will yield the corresponding tracks
across the frames that minimizes our chosen cost function.
The Hungarian Algorithm [18] is the standard algorithm used
to solve this problem.
In our context, the interesting choice is in designing the
cost function c(s, t) between candidate fruit regions for Ik
and Ik+1. Suppose vertex s corresponds to fruit i in frame k,
and vertex t to fruit j in frame k +1. Let pi,k = [ui,k, vi,k]T
represent the row ui,k and column vi,k position of fruit region
i in the image coordinate space of image Ik. One simple cost
function would be the Euclidean distance between the centers
c(s, t) = ||pi,k −pj,k+1||2
2. However, since the fruit objects
are dense and the camera is moving, the fruit region in image
Ik and its corresponding closest fruit region in image Ik+1
may represent different fruits. Therefore, this approach will
frequently yield wrong matches.
Instead, we deﬁne a different cost function based on a
Kalman ﬁlter corrected optical ﬂow estimate. The optical
ﬂow tracker we use is the Kanade-Lucas-Tomasi (KLT)
feature tracker [19]. The KLT tracker takes in images
(Ik, Ik+1) along with the desired fruit center to track
pi,k in image Ik, and determines the optical ﬂow di,k =
[d(u)
i,k , d(v)
i,k ]T at point pi,k. If we just use the optical ﬂow
with no Kalman Filter correction, our cost function would be
c(s, t) = ||(pi,k + di,k) −pj,k+1||2
2. Notice that the optical
ﬂow step only uses the FCN segmentation in image Ik, and
the new FCN segmentation in image Ik+1 is only introduced
in the Hungarian Algorithm cost function.
Just using the KLT algorithm will sometimes yield noisy
ﬂow where different fruits can be predicted to move in very
different directions. This is not desirable when the fruits are
stationary and the camera is moving sideways, which is the
most common case for fruit counting videos. As a result, the
directions of optical ﬂow should be similar between fruits.
We address this problem using the following two tech-
niques. First, we use the Kalman Filter [20], also known as
the Linear Quadratic Estimator (LQE), to correct the optical
ﬂow estimates. Second, we use the velocity of every fruit as
an initial guess of its optical ﬂow for the KLT tracker. This
velocity is part of the state vector in the Kalman Filter, and
is designed to account for the motion of the camera.
Deﬁne the expanded 4×1 state vector xi,k for fruit center
i at frame k as:
xi,k =
pi,k
˙pi,k

=


ui,k
vi,k
˙ui,k
˙vi,k

,
where we now include ˙ui,k the pixel row velocity, and ˙vi,k
the pixel column velocity.
We use the following discrete-time time-invariant linear
system model
xi,k+1 = Axi,k + ω
zi,k+1 = Hxi,k + ν
(2)
where A is the state transition matrix, H is the observation
matrix, ω the process noise, and ν the measurement noise.
Both ω and ν are random variables assumed to be drawn
from a Gaussian zero-mean distribution. Speciﬁcally, the
parameters of this model are deﬁned as
A =


1
0
1
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
1

,
H =


1
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
1


ω ∼N(0, Q)
ν ∼N(0, R)
where Q and R are user-deﬁned 4 × 4 covariance matrices.
Since the major movement of fruits is along the u (row)
direction, we set larger noise values for variables in the u
direction. Our optical ﬂow estimates constitute our noisy
observation variable as follows
zi,k+1 =


ui,k + d(u)
i,k
vi,k + d(v)
i,k
1
m
Pm
l=1 d(u)
l,k−1
1
m
Pm
l=1 d(v)
l,k−1


,
where m is the total number of candidate fruit regions in
image Ik−1. In other words, to measure the predicted state at
frame k +1 we use the optical ﬂow predicted locations from
the current frame k as the measured position variables, and
the average of the optical ﬂow in the previous frame k −1
as the measured velocity variable. This averaging helps to
smooth out the noisy ﬂow problem we highlighted before.
Thus, given a state xi,k, using the process model in
Eqn (2), we will get an a priori estimate ˆx−
i,k+1 for frame
k+1 given knowledge of the process prior to step k+1. Using
the measurement zi,k+1, we perform the standard Kalman
Filter prediction and update steps detailed in [20] to compute
the a posteriori state estimate ˆxi,k+1, and then extract the po-
sition variables to get estimate of ˆpi,k+1 = [ˆui,k+1, ˆvi,k+1]T .
The cost function is then c(s, t) = ||ˆpi,k+1 −pj,k+1||2
2.
The above cost function only takes into account the
distance between the predicted center and the next center.
We make a few modiﬁcations to also take into account the
fruit size measured by its bounding box and the overlap
between bounding boxes. When we determine the fruit
correspondences, we care about the center distance relative
to the size of the bounding boxes. In addition, we would like
the bounding boxes to overlap, as this indicates that they are
more likely to be a good match.
Suppose that ai,k and aj,k+1 are the areas of the bounding
boxes for fruit i in image Ik and fruit j in image Ik+1.
In addition, let λk+1(i, j) be the proportion overlap of the
bounding box of fruit i after it’s center has been estimated
to move to ˆpi,k+1 from the Kalman Filter corrected Optical

Fig. 5: Fruits 3D localization result before (left) and after (right) rejecting outliers and double counted tracks. The red dots are estimated
fruit locations and the blue dots are camera centers for every frame image. Note how the fruits from the tree behind the target row are
removed due to the knowledge of 3D fruit locations. Double counted fruit tracks are very close in 3D (ideally, they should totally overlap),
but they are projected from different sequence images, thus being hard to detect in a 2D image plane.
Flow step, with the bounding box of fruit j in Ik+1. Our
ﬁnal cost function is:
c(s, t) = ||ˆpi,k+1 −pj,k+1||2
2
ai,k + aj,k+1
+ (1 −λk+1(i, j))
After performing the Hungarian Algorithm assignment,
we re-initialize the Kalman Filter model with all the new
candidate regions in the next frame where for fruit i in Ik+1:
xi,k+1 =


ui,k+1
vi,k+1
1
m
Pm
l=1 d(u)
l,k
1
m
Pm
l=1 d(v)
l,k


and the covariance matrices are re-initialized accordingly.
The ﬁnal step is to determine which fruit tracks to count.
Rather than counting all fruit tracks, we instead select a
subset of the fruit tracks based on their age, i.e., the total
number of frames that the fruit has been tracked. Only fruit
tracks with an age above the predeﬁned threshold will be
counted, and are counted when we lose track of them. In our
implementation, to achieve a good trade-off between false
positive and false negative tracks, this threshold is deﬁned
to be one third of the number of frames which have overlap.
Differentiating fruit tracks according to their age can make
our counting more robust.
C. 3D Fruit Localization and Relative Size Estimation
The previous detection and tracking steps will provide an
initial count of the number of fruits in an image sequence.
However, as depicted in the reconstruction result in Fig. 6
and the fruit localization result in Fig. 5, this count is still
susceptible to fruits that are double counted, and fruits from
trees in other rows behind the one being counted, but still
visible to the camera. To account for these pitfalls, this count
can thus be further corrected by localizing the fruit in 3D
and estimating the relative sizes.
We obtain our 3D reconstruction using an incremental
Structure from Motion (SfM) algorithm. SfM matches fea-
tures across image frames to estimate camera poses. A com-
mon feature to track are Scale Invariant Feature Transform
(SIFT) features [21]. Instead of tracking all SIFT features,
we only track SIFT features located close to our detected
fruit regions. The intuition for this modiﬁcation is that tree
environments are highly textured, and as a result the best
features to track are those close to the objects of interest.
Fig. 6: Top view of 3D Reconstruction of Trees. We can see the
distribution of tree canopy is consistent with the distribution of
fruits in Fig. 5, and combine the two we can intuitively see how
fruits from another row are removed.
We found that this reduction of features not only decreases
computation time, but also improves the overall quality of
the 3D reconstruction.
In order to only detect SIFT features near fruit, we ﬁrst
identify the fruit bounding boxes and add a margin of 25
pixels to each side. We then use a 5 × 5 window to apply
an average blur around the edge. This blur helps to avoid
false positives from an artiﬁcially high contrast. Next, we
set the background pixels to be the average pixel intensity
value of the lower third region of all the images in the
dataset. This constant color choice removes the features that
are not close to fruit centers. In addition, it approximates
the color of the leaves which reduces false positives by
approximating the color of leaves. Compared with using all
visual features, only using features near fruits signiﬁcantly
reduces the total number of matched features, provides a
even spread of matched features throughout the image, and
maintains the number of features lying on fruits. We found
that this not only saves the computation power, but also
improves the quality of our reconstruction.
However, one limitation with this approach is that occa-
sionally, there are not enough features around fruits. The
lack of features around fruits can occur due to few number
of fruits appearing in some frames and the smoothness of
the areas around some fruits. When such scenarios occur,
the 3D reconstruction based on features around fruits will
be unstable. To increase robustness, if enough features are
not detected near fruits, we allow the SfM algorithm to use
all visible features.
After the 3D SfM reconstruction, we will have the 3D
locations of each SIFT feature. To compute the 3D location
of the fruit centers, we average the 3D locations of each
feature associated with that fruit. Once these fruit centers
have been located, we can compute the relative depth by
projecting the 3D fruit center from the global frame to the

Measure
Oranges (Uncorrected)
Oranges (Corrected)
Apples (Uncorrected)
Apples (Corrected)
Count / Ground Truth
4049 / 3456
3449 / 3456
8622 / 7949
8215 / 7949
L1 Loss
593
203
673
322
Error Mean
17.2%
-0.2%
8.5%
3.3%
Error Std Dev
26.3%
7.8%
4.7%
4.1%
Fig. 7: Error mean and standard deviation of our algorithm on the orange and apple datasets: The correction from the 3D fruit localization
signiﬁcantly improves the algorithm performance by reducing both the error mean and standard deviation. The correction is effective
especially for the orange data set, in which the environment is not as carefully controlled, and the fruits have more variation in depth.
local camera frame. The relative sizes can then be estimated
by multiplying the fruit area in image pixels with the square
of the relative depth.
The 3D fruit locations and relative sizes can now be used
to correct the initial fruit count. First we can remove double
counted fruits. Due to occlusion and illumination variation,
not every fruit will be tracked in all the frames they appear
in. As a result, some fruits that are initially tracked, then
lost, and then detected and tracked again at a later frame,
will be counted as different fruits and appear twice in our
initial count. After localizing these fruit tracks in 3D, we can
easily detect these double counted fruits since they will be
close in 3D space.
In addition, we can remove fruit outliers in terms of size.
These outliers can be detected by comparing the relative
size distribution, where both too large and too small fruits
can be regarded as false positives. For example, in some
datasets, signs can sometimes be classiﬁed as a fruit. This
step will detect and eliminate these false positives since the
estimated size will be large. The size-based outliers rejection
is also depicted in Fig. 9, fruits with sizes smaller than lower
threshold (blue line) and upper threshold (red line) are all
regarded as outliers.
We can also reject fruits that do not lie in the row we
are counting. Such a scenario is illustrated in Fig. 5, when
a further row of trees is visible due to a gap in the tree
row we are counting. Since fruits’ 3D locations will be
estimated, we can then project them from world coordinate to
camera frame, and set a threshold to the z coordinate which
represents the depth.
V. RESULTS AND ANALYSIS
In this section, we compare the results of applying our
counting pipeline on two different data sets versus human-
annotated ground truth counts. We present the count accuracy
metrics before and after correction to quantify the beneﬁts
of the 3D reconstruction step. These results demonstrate
the accurate performance of our algorithm, especially after
applying the correction step.
We collected the orange fruit data set during the day with
no artiﬁcial lighting at Booth Ranch LLC in California. The
orange trees were in a non-trellis arrangement. We acquire
images of size 1280 × 960 using a Bluefox USB 2 camera
at 10Hz. We collected the apple fruit data set at night using
an external ﬂash setup at Washington State. The apple trees
were in a trellis arrangement. We acquired images of size
1920 × 1200 using a PointGrey USB 3 camera at 6Hz. The
orange images were collected with our sensor package [1]
mounted on a steady cam and carried by human operator
at walking speed. The apple images were collected using a
utility vehicle driving down the row at around 1 m/s. The
reason for our choice in the two data sets is that they differ
in illumination condition, stability of the camera, and fruit
occlusion. As a result, they represent different types of data
conditions and test the generalizability of our algorithm.
Our FCN is implemented in Tensorﬂow. We use the
COLMAP package [22] to generate SfM reconstruction
with our preprocessed images and speciﬁed feature match-
ing scheme. To measure the performance of our counting
pipeline, as well as the effectiveness of our localization
and size estimation based count correction, we labeled and
counted visual fruits in our two datasets. Based on the ground
truth labels and our algorithm outputs, we calculate the count
accuracy and standard deviation before and after correction
for every tree in our orange dataset. We calculate the similar
metrics for every row (approximately 100 frames) in our
apple data set since the trees were in a trellis arrangement
and were difﬁcult to differentiate.
Fig. 7 displays the count error metrics for both the orange
and apple datasets. For the orange dataset, the uncorrected
model has an L1 loss of 593, an error mean of 17.1% and a
standard deviation of 26.3%. After the 3D reconstruction cor-
rection step, the model has an L1 loss of 203, an error mean
of −0.2% and a standard deviation of 7.8%, demonstrating
a large performance gain in both accuracy and consistency.
Fig. 8 depicts the various counts for each orange tree for the
corrected model, and illustrates the algorithm is obtaining
close counts per tree, and not just an accurate average count.
Fig. 8 also qualitatively highlights how the 3D reconstruc-
tion step corrects for over-counted fruit by removing visible
oranges that are in the background. Displayed on the left and
right of the chart are the corresponding images of two trees
whose uncorrected estimates are inconsistent with the ground
truth. In both cases, the trees in another row are visible, a
common situation in unstructured farm environments, thus
causing our uncorrected counting pipeline to over count.
After the correction step, the number of oranges over counted
for these two trees is reduced from 57 to 2 (ground truth

Fig. 8: Count of oranges per tree from the corrected model. The algorithm is able to accurately count the number of oranges in each image
sequence. The two green circles in the count chart highlight the two trees in the left and the right images. Our correction signiﬁcantly
improves the count for these two trees since the uncorrected detection and tracking algorithm picks up visible oranges in the background.
Fig. 9: Relative size distribution and outliers rejection for oranges.
The X-axis is the fruit size divided by the mean size of all fruits,
and the Y-axis is the count for the corresponding size. The size
distribution is concentrated around 1. The blue line and red line
are thresholds for size outliers rejection, where all fruits with a
relative size out of the 0.5 - 4 range are rejected.
206), and 101 to 9 (ground truth 78) respectively. These
situations are difﬁcult to identify when only using 2D images,
but become easy once the fruit are localized in 3D.
Fig. 9 demonstrates that the size distribution of fruits is
concentrated, which is expected. Note that these are not sizes
in terms of 2D pixel areas, but relative sizes in 3D. The
blue and red vertical lines are the lower threshold (0.5) and
upper threshold (4) respectively, which are used to reject
size outliers and are chosen heuristically. We also set the
threshold for depth outliers (fruits from another row of trees)
to be 1.5 times the mean depth of all fruits.
For the apple dataset, the uncorrected model has an L1
error of 673, an error mean of 8.5% and standard deviation
of 4.7%. After the correction step, the model has an L1
error is 322, an error mean of 3.3% and a standard deviation
of 4.1%. Fig 10 displays the various counts for each 100
frames of the apple dataset. While the standard deviation
Fig. 10: Count of apples per row (a row contains approximately 100
frame images). While the uncorrected count performs well due to
the controlled environment, the 3D reconstruction correction still
improves performance. However, the effect of this correction is
much more muted, due to the fact that the structured environment
for the apple dataset makes the tracking problem easier.
and accuracy of original estimation are already quite good,
the 3D correction still further improve results.
The effect of the 3D reconstruction step on the orange
dataset is more signiﬁcant compared with the apple dataset.
The apple dataset is cleaner since the apples are arranged
on a trellis resulting in less occlusion, the illumination is
artiﬁcially controlled at night, and the trees are arranged so
that there is less variation in the fruits’ distance to camera
and less displacement between trees.
On the other hand, the orange trees are not in a trellis
arrangement, so there is much more occlusion and varia-
tion in distance. In addition, the videos are taking during
the day with natural lighting, so there are more shadows
and variations in illumination. Finally, the distance between
neighboring trees varies, so many trees in background rows
are visible from the camera. As a result, there many more
outliers and double counted fruit for oranges, and the effect
of the 3D reconstruction step is much more pronounced. In
many real world orchards, we would expect an unstructured
environment where growers will want to use the algorithm

without having to speciﬁcally control the video settings.
Having an algorithm that can handle these variabilities makes
it more widely practical for real-world scenarios.
VI. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
We have presented a pipeline consisting of segmentation,
tracking, and localization that accurately counts visible fruits
across image sequences. To the best of our knowledge, this is
the ﬁrst application of a deep neural network in an algorithm
that counts fruit across an image sequence. We evaluated
its performance on both an orange data set which features
high level of occlusions, depth variation, and uncontrolled
illumination, as well as an apple data set which features high
color similarity between fruit and foliage.
In the ﬁrst stage of our pipeline, we use an FCN to obtain
accurate fruit segmentations. We then used the Hungarian
Algorithm with the Kalman Filter corrected KLT tracker
to track the fruit across image frames. Finally, we localize
the fruit in 3D using SfM in order to correct the count by
rejecting false positives. We reported an L1 error of 203,
error mean of −0.2% and an error standard deviation of 7.8%
for the orange dataset, and and L1 error of 322, error mean of
3.3%, and standard deviation of 4.1% for the apple dataset.
Our 3D reconstruction correction step improves orange count
more signiﬁcantly compared to the apple dataset since the
orange dataset was collected under natural illumination fea-
turing high occlusion and depth variation. Most orchards and
farms feature similar uncontrolled conditions, indicating the
beneﬁts of our algorithm in practical use scenarios.
One direction of future work is to obtain absolute depth
and size. A natural way to obtain these absolute measure-
ments is by fusing IMU measurements. However, another
interesting approach is to estimate the average size of the
fruit in the physical world, and use this size information
to convert the relative size and depth into absolute size
and depths while still only using a monocular camera. This
approach would be useful when an IMU is not available,
which can occur for some types of commodity cameras.
While we have demonstrated the accuracy of our pipeline
on apples and oranges, a second direction of future work
would be to evaluate the performance on a variety of other
fruits or other objects in the farm. Demonstrating the general
counting performance of our algorithm in unstructured envi-
ronments using only monocular camera images would allow
us to explore real-world applications of our algorithms in
farms, especially low-resource settings, around the world.
VII. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
This work was supported by USDA NIFA grant 2015-
67021-23857 under the National Robotics Initiative. We
gratefully acknowledge Anurag Makineni, Andrew Block,
and members of the GRASP Laboratory at the University of
Pennsylvania for their help with data-collection and anno-
tations. We acknowledge Jim Meyers, and the Washington
State Tree Fruit Research Commission for supporting data
collection for apples, and Booth Ranches, California for
oranges.
REFERENCES
[1] J. Das, G. Cross, C. Qu, A. Makineni, P. Tokekar, Y. Mulgaonkar, and
V. Kumar, “Devices, systems, and methods for automated monitoring
enabling precision agriculture,” in Automation Science and Engineer-
ing (CASE), 2015 IEEE International Conference on.
IEEE, 2015,
pp. 462–469.
[2] S. W. Chen, S. S. Shivakumar, S. Dcunha, J. Das, E. Okon, C. Qu,
C. J. Taylor, and V. Kumar, “Counting apples and oranges with deep
learning: A data-driven approach,” IEEE Robotics and Automation
Letters, vol. 2, no. 2, pp. 781–788, April 2017.
[3] P. Roy and V. Isler, “Surveying apple orchards with a monocular
vision system,” in 2016 IEEE International Conference on Automation
Science and Engineering (CASE), Aug 2016, pp. 916–921.
[4] B. Leibe, K. Schindler, and L. Van Gool, “Coupled detection and
trajectory estimation for multi-object tracking,” in Computer Vision,
2007. ICCV 2007. IEEE 11th International Conference on.
IEEE,
2007, pp. 1–8.
[5] Z. S. Pothen and S. Nuske, “Texture-based fruit detection via images
using the smooth patterns on the fruit,” in Proceedings of the IEEE
International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA). IEEE,
May 2016, pp. 5171–5176.
[6] S. Bargoti and J. Underwood, “Deep fruit detection in orchards,” in
Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2017 IEEE International Conference
on.
IEEE, 2017, pp. 3626–3633.
[7] I. Sa, Z. Ge, F. Dayoub, B. Upcroft, T. Perez, and C. McCool,
“Deepfruits: A fruit detection system using deep neural networks,”
Sensors, vol. 16, no. 8, p. 1222, 2016.
[8] S. Bargoti and J. P. Underwood, “Image segmentation for fruit
detection and yield estimation in apple orchards,” Journal of Field
Robotics, vol. 34, no. 6, pp. 1039–1060, 2017.
[9] M. Rahnemoonfar and C. Sheppard, “Deep count: fruit counting based
on deep simulated learning,” Sensors, vol. 17, no. 4, p. 905, 2017.
[10] R. Barth, J. IJsselmuiden, J. Hemming, and E. Van Henten, “Data syn-
thesis methods for semantic segmentation in agriculture: A capsicum
annuum dataset,” Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, vol. 144,
pp. 284–296, 2018.
[11] P. Roy and V. Isler, “Surveying apple orchards with a monocular vision
system,” in Automation Science and Engineering (CASE), 2016 IEEE
International Conference on.
IEEE, 2016, pp. 916–921.
[12] Q. Wang, S. Nuske, M. Bergerman, and S. Singh, “Automated
crop yield estimation for apple orchards,” in Experimental robotics.
Springer, 2013, pp. 745–758.
[13] W. Li, H. Fu, L. Yu, and A. Cracknell, “Deep learning based oil
palm tree detection and counting for high-resolution remote sensing
images,” Remote Sensing, vol. 9, no. 1, p. 22, 2016.
[14] J. Long, E. Shelhamer, and T. Darrell, “Fully convolutional networks
for semantic segmentation,” in Proceedings of the IEEE Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition.
IEEE, Jun 2015, pp.
3431–3440.
[15] A. Krizhevsky, I. Sutskever, and G. E. Hinton, “Imagenet classiﬁcation
with deep convolutional neural networks,” in Advances in neural
information processing systems, 2012, pp. 1097–1105.
[16] K. Simonyan and A. Zisserman, “Very deep convolutional networks
for large-scale image recognition,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1409.1556,
2014.
[17] D. Reid, “An algorithm for tracking multiple targets,” IEEE transac-
tions on Automatic Control, vol. 24, no. 6, pp. 843–854, 1979.
[18] J. Munkres, “Algorithms for the assignment and transportation prob-
lems,” Journal of the society for industrial and applied mathematics,
vol. 5, no. 1, pp. 32–38, 1957.
[19] B. D. Lucas and T. Kanade, “An iterative image registration technique
with an application to stereo vision,” in Proceedings of the 7th
International Joint Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence - Volume
2, ser. IJCAI’81.
San Francisco, CA, USA: Morgan Kaufmann
Publishers Inc., 1981, pp. 674–679.
[20] R. E. Kalman, “A new approach to linear ﬁltering and prediction
problems,” Journal of basic Engineering, vol. 82, no. 1, pp. 35–45,
1960.
[21] D. G. Lowe, “Distinctive image features from scale-invariant key-
points,” International journal of computer vision, vol. 60, no. 2, pp.
91–110, 2004.
[22] J. L. Sch¨onberger and J.-M. Frahm, “Structure-from-motion revisited,”
in IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR), 2016.
