A comprehensive review on
acquisition of phenotypic
information of Prunoideae
fruits: Image technology
Xuan Liu 1†, Na Li 1†, Yirui Huang 2, Xiujun Lin 1
and Zhenhui Ren 1*
1College of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering, Hebei Agricultural University, Baoding, China,
2College of Information Engineering, Hebei GEO University, Shijiazhuang, China
Fruit phenotypic information reﬂects all the physical, physiological,
biochemical characteristics and traits of fruit. Accurate access to phenotypic
information is very necessary and meaningful for post-harvest storage, sales
and deep processing. The methods of obtaining phenotypic information
include traditional manual measurement and damage detection, which are
inefﬁcient and destructive. In the ﬁeld of fruit phenotype research, image
technology is increasingly mature, which greatly improves the efﬁciency of
fruit phenotype information acquisition. This review paper mainly reviews the
research on phenotypic information of Prunoideae fruit based on three
imaging techniques (RGB imaging, hyperspectral imaging, multispectral
imaging). Firstly, the classiﬁcation was carried out according to the image
type. On this basis, the review and summary of previous studies were
completed from the perspectives of fruit maturity detection, fruit quality
classiﬁcation and fruit disease damage identiﬁcation. Analysis of the
advantages and disadvantages of various types of images in the study, and try
to give the next research direction for improvement.
KEYWORDS
Prunoideae fruits, spectral image, phenotypic information, nondestructive
techniques, image technology
1 Introduction
Fruit phenotype describes the expression of fruit traits. Research on fruit traits can be
done at multiple levels, including cells, tissues, organs, individual fruits, whole plant
fruits, and even entire orchards (Dhondt et al., 2013). Phenotypic information of fruit
includes but is not limited to geometric size, biomass content, moisture content, and skin
color (Shakoor et al., 2017; Choudhury et al., 2019). The variation of phenotypic
Frontiers in Plant Science
frontiersin.org
01
OPEN ACCESS
EDITED BY
Zhanyou Xu,
Agricultural Research Service (USDA),
United States
REVIEWED BY
Naveen Kumar Mahanti,
Dr.Y.S.R. Horticultural University, India
Ebrahiema Arendse,
Agricultural Research Council of South
Africa (ARC-SA), South Africa
*CORRESPONDENCE
Zhenhui Ren
renzh68@163.com
†These authors have contributed
equally to this work
SPECIALTY SECTION
This article was submitted to
Technical Advances in Plant Science,
a section of the journal
Frontiers in Plant Science
RECEIVED 31 October 2022
ACCEPTED 21 December 2022
PUBLISHED 26 January 2023
CITATION
Liu X, Li N, Huang Y, Lin X and Ren Z
(2023) A comprehensive review on
acquisition of phenotypic
information of Prunoideae fruits:
Image technology.
Front. Plant Sci. 13:1084847.
doi: 10.3389/fpls.2022.1084847
COPYRIGHT
© 2023 Liu, Li, Huang, Lin and Ren. This
is an open-access article distributed
under the terms of the Creative
Commons Attribution License (CC BY).
The use, distribution or reproduction
in other forums is permitted, provided
the original author(s) and the
copyright owner(s) are credited and
that the original publication in this
journal is cited, in accordance with
accepted academic practice. No use,
distribution or reproduction is
permitted which does not comply with
these terms.
TYPE Systematic Review
PUBLISHED 26 January 2023
DOI 10.3389/fpls.2022.1084847

information is closely related to the market value of fruits.
Therefore, it is of great signiﬁcance to obtain accurate fruit
phenotype information for maximizing the economic value of
fruits (Mahlein, 2016). Fruit harvesting is an important part of
agricultural production. The completion of harvesting at the
appropriate fruit harvesting window is the basis for ensuring
consumers to obtain high quality fruits. By obtaining phenotypic
information such as fruit hardness and SSC (Sohaib Ali Shah
et al., 2020), the fruit harvesting window can be accurately
grasped, thus guiding the fruit harvesting work. In addition,
the research on fruit quality evaluation (Qin et al., 2013; Su and
Sun, 2018), fruit disease and damage (Ali et al., 2019) based on
phenotypic information is also very meaningful.
In traditional methods, digital calipers and electronic scales
were used to measure the size and weight of fruits (Zhang et al.,
2014), and Folin-Ciocalteu method (total polyphenol content) and
hand-held refractometer (sugar content) (Pissard et al., 2013;
Kopjar et al., 2017) were used to determine the polyphenol and
sugar content of fruits respectively. These methods are meaningful,
but the disadvantages are also obvious, such as the measurement
process is time-consuming and damages the integrity of the fruit.
With the rapid technological advancement in electronics and
computers sectors different technologies were developed to obtain
fruit phenotypic information efﬁciently, accurately and non-
destructively. Compared with the traditional detection technology,
the phenotypic information detection research based on spectral
technology realizes the non-destructive detection of fruit according
to the difference between the light absorption rate and the
reﬂectivity inside the fruit (Toivonen et al., 2017). Due to the rich
spectral data and image information contained in the images
(Fernández-Novales et al., 2019), multispectral and hyperspectral
imaging devices have signiﬁcantly improved the efﬁciency of fruit
phenotype acquisition, and have been widely used by researchers in
the related research of fruit phenotype information. The wide
applicability of RGB imaging equipment makes the study of
phenotypic information based on RGB images a new research
hotspot (Blasco et al., 2017). In addition, thermal imaging
technology was used in the study of fruit temperature (Osroosh
and Peters, 2019; Ranjan et al., 2022), and computer tomography
technology (Kritzinger et al., 2017; Karmoker et al., 2018) and laser
backscatter imaging technology (Adebayo et al., 2016; Mozaffari
et al., 2022) were used in the study offruit internal quality detection.
The phenotypic information acquisition technology based on image
technology avoids the measurement error caused by subjective
factors in traditional detection methods (Fu et al., 2020), and
further improves the accuracy of phenotypic information
acquisition. As shown in Table 1, the advantages and
disadvantages of imaging techniques in the acquisition of fruit
phenotypic information and related research were summarized.
The expression of phenotypic information in fruits may
change at different stages of ripening and different kinds of
diseases. The researchers found that fungal infection caused an
abnormal increase in water content due to the breakdown of
carbohydrates (Sun et al., 2018) and a subsequent decrease in
chlorophyll content during fruit ripening (Muhua et al., 2007;
Lleó et al., 2009). The changes of fruits are closely related to the
phenotypic information they present. Therefore, researchers
have completed the relevant research on fruits while obtaining
phenotypic information based on different types of images.
This paper reviews the phenotypic information acquisition
and related research based on RGB images, hyperspectral
images, and multispectral images, of Prunoideae fruits. The
chapter classiﬁcation is completed according to the image
type, and the relevant literature is reviewed and summarized
according to the research purposes of fruit quality classiﬁcation
(Pu et al., 2015), disease damage identiﬁcation (Shao et al., 2019),
and maturity detection (Sohaib Ali Shah et al., 2020). The
advantages and disadvantages of the completed studies were
discussed. Finally, the future trends and challenges of
phenotypic information acquisition based on image technology
were prospected. Based on the high-frequency words of the cited
papers, the word frequency distribution map of the references is
drawn. It can be seen from the color degree of the key words in
the ﬁgure that the related research based on hyperspectral
TABLE 1 Summary table of imaging technology in the acquisition of fruit phenotypic information and related research.
Research object
Imaging technology
Imaging environment
Portability
Ref.
Cherry
Commercial thermal-RGB sensor
Outdoor environment
Portability
(Ranjan et al., 2022)
Plum
Laser backscattering imager
Closed darkroom t
Non-portability
(Rezaei Kalaj et al., 2016)
Apricot
Laser backscattering imager
Closed darkroom
Non-portability
(Mozaffari et al., 2022)
Peach
Multispectral image system
Closed darkroom
Non-portability
(Herrero-Langreo et al., 2011)
Cherry
UAV Multispectral Imager
Outdoor environment
Portability
(Karydas et al., 2020)
Plum
Hyperspectral imaging system
Laboratory environment
Non-portability
(Li et al., 2018a)
Nectarine
Hyperspectral imaging system
Closed darkroom
Non-portability
(Munera et al., 2018)
Plum
Mobile phones, cameras
Outdoor environment
Portability
(Ahmad et al., 2020)
Cherry
Digital camera
Laboratory environment
Non-portability
(Momeny et al., 2020)
Liu et al.
10.3389/fpls.2022.1084847
Frontiers in Plant Science
frontiersin.org
02

images and RGN images accounts for the majority in quantity.
As shown in Figure 1, the keyword frequency distribution map
of the references in this paper.
2 Phenotypic information
acquisition and related applications
based on RGB image
RGB mode is a color standard, by changing the red (R),
green (G), blue (B) three color channels and their superposition
to get a variety of colors. RGB mode is one of the most widely
used color systems, and RGB images can provide data
information such as color features, texture features, and
geometric shapes of fruits (Kaur et al., 2018). Compared with
multispectral images and hyperspectral images, RGB images can
be acquired by smartphones, cameras and other means, and the
acquisition methods are more diversiﬁed and universal. At the
same time, the image acquisition equipment has low
requirements on the acquisition environment, even in cloudy
days, sunshine or indoor environment (Miragaia et al., 2021).
In recent years, researchers have completed many related
studies based on fruit RGB images. This section reviews the
research progress of fruit maturity detection, disease damage
identiﬁcation and fruit quality classiﬁcation based on
RGB images.
FIGURE 1
Reference keyword frequency distribution map.
Liu et al.
10.3389/fpls.2022.1084847
Frontiers in Plant Science
frontiersin.org
03

2.1 Fruit maturity detection based on
RGB image
As the fruit gradually mature chlorophyll degradation,
anthocyanins or carotenoids and other new pigments began to
synthesize, resulting in fruit color began to change. Therefore,
consumers usually associate color with the ripening stage of
fruits (Blasco et al., 2017).
In 2015, S. Taghadomi et al. completed the determination of
color parameters during cherry ripening (Taghadomi-Saberi
et al., 2015). A CCD camera (PROLINE UK, Model 565s with
510 by 492 pixels resolutions, London, United Kingdom) was
used to acquire cherry images. Threshold segmentation
technology and Otus algorithm are used to extract cherry
image. After screening 37 common features using PCA, 7
features were obtained as input vectors. The relationship
between the L* a* b* value measured by the colorimeter and
the color features extracted from the cherry image was modeled
and analyzed based on the artiﬁcial neural network (ANN) using
MATLAB. The Levenberg-Marquardt algorithm and trainbr
function were used to train the network. The results showed
that the ANN with structure of 7-14-11-3 had the best modeling
effect on L* a* b* color parameters during cherry ripening (R2 =
0.9999). In 2018, Indian scholar Kaur et al. completed a study on
the evaluation of fruit maturity based on RGB images of plums
(Kaur et al., 2018). The plum images were captured using a
digital camera (Nikon Coolpix S3200, Resolution-4608 × 3456,
and Format-JPEG) under natural light. In their research, the
uniform threshold operator in MATLAB image processing
toolbox is used to complete image segmentation.The average
RGB value is used to extract color features, and entropy, local
binary pattern and discrete cosine transform are used to extract
texture features. Based on the multi-attribute decision making
(MADM) theory, the decision of maturity level is completed.
The results show that the developed system accurately
determines the maturity level of plums. The correlation
strength between color features and texture features and
maturity at different stages is shown in the article (Kaur
et al., 2018).
In the following year, researcher Mostafa Khojastehnazhand
et al. completed maturity detection and volume estimation based
on RGB images of apricot fruit (Khojastehnazhand et al., 2019).
They obtained seven kinds of feature information of apricot
images, and ﬁnally selected G channel, gray value, L* and b* as
input features. Discriminant analysis models based on LDA and
Quadratic Discriminant Analysis (QDA) are compared. The
results show that R2 values of LDA and QDA are 0.904 and
0.923 respectively.
There are many ways to obtain RGB images, and the
requirements for the environment are not high. However,
different acquisition environment and acquisition equipment
will make the image have some differences, such as the impact of
light conditions, image quality differences. Miragaia et al.
completed the research of deep learning algorithm based on
convolutional neural network (CNN) to analyze plum maturity
detection in real environment (Miragaia et al., 2021). The
method of obtaining plum fruit images used in this study is
not limited. Plum fruit images obtained by devices such as
smartphones and cameras can be used for maturity
recognition. The inﬂuence of different image quality is solved,
so that the obtained images can be used for the detection of fruit
maturity. The results show that the developed system has good
robustness. Even if the image has different illumination
conditions and focus, it can correctly complete the
classiﬁcation of plum fruit maturity, and the efﬁciency is above
94%. Table 2 summarizes the studies on fruit maturity detection
based on phenotypic information using RGB images.
It can be concluded from Table 2 that the related research on
maturity detection and classiﬁcation completed by researchers
using RGB images has achieved good research results. The
reason for the analysis is that the plum fruits studied are all
varieties with strong correlation between maturity and fruit
color changes, and RGB images can better reﬂect the color
characteristics of fruits at different maturity stages.
2.2 Fruit quality detection based on
RGB image
In the ﬁeld of fruit quality detection, the quality detection
based on RGB images is more focused on the phenotypic
information obtained from the fruit surface. This is because
the fruit RGB images only contain surface phenotypic
information such as color features, geometric features, and
texture features. We try to give the steps followed by common
image processing in target detection based on RGB images
(Figure 2). It should be pointed out that the processing steps
mentioned are not necessarily used, and the speciﬁc methods are
related to the actual needs.
Iranian researcher Esehaghbeygi et al. used a high-resolution
CCD (PROLINE UK, Model 565s with 510 by 492 pixels
resolution) camera to obtain RGB images of peach fruit, and
completed the study of color grading and size evaluation of
peach fruit (Esehaghbeygi, 2010). An edge detection algorithm
was developed to estimate the volume of peach fruit, and the
Mesh function in MATLAB software was used to obtain the hue,
saturation and value of peach image and complete the
classiﬁcation of peach fruit color and the detection of surface
spots. The results show that the detection rate of white spots is
96.7%, the detection rate of brown spots is 85%, the accuracy of
size classiﬁcation is 96%, and the accuracy of color classiﬁcation
is 90%. It is an unavoidable problem to eliminate the inﬂuence of
other light in the detection of fruit quality in outdoor
environment. Wang et al. completed a study on the color
Liu et al.
10.3389/fpls.2022.1084847
Frontiers in Plant Science
frontiersin.org
04

evaluation of sweet cherry (Wang et al., 2012). The acquisition of
cherry images was completed by a digital camera (Nikon D5000
Nikon Inc., Melville, NY, USA). The acquisition environment
was an outdoor environment with sufﬁcient light. The cherry
images of direct sunlight, bright shadow and dark shadow were
obtained respectively. The distance between the camera and the
cherry was 0.5 m. Using image processing technology to
eliminate the strong light spots caused by light, mainly
includes two steps: (1) using the green channel of color
grading area to detect the image pixels with dazzling
FIGURE 2
Image processing steps in target recognition.
TABLE 2 Review on fruit maturity detection based on phenotypic information using RGB images.
Research
object
Preprocessing
Method
Imaging
device
Result
Ref.
Cherry
Thresholding and Otsu’s algorithm
techniques
ANN
CCD camera
R2 = 0.9999
(Taghadomi-Saberi
et al., 2015)
Plum
Uniform thresholding operator
MADM
Digital camera
Correlation between Acidity and Green:
R2 = 0.9966;
Correlation between R/G and SSC: R2 =
0.8464
(Kaur et al., 2018)
Apricot
Averaging ﬁlter
LDA and
QDA
Digital camera
LDA: R2 = 0.904.
QDA: R2 = 0.923
(Khojastehnazhand
et al., 2019)
Plum
Mean image subtraction, mean pixel
subtraction
Deep
Learning
Mobile phone,
camera
Maturity recognition accuracy>94%
(Miragaia et al.,
2021)
Liu et al.
10.3389/fpls.2022.1084847
Frontiers in Plant Science
frontiersin.org
05

reﬂection; (2) Eliminate detected pixels from the color rating
area of the image. In the study, a color rating system was
successfully developed to complete the color rating of cherry
images. The results showed that the overall accuracy of color
rating was more than 85%.
Taghadomi-Saberi ‘s team combined image processing
technology and ANN to complete the evaluation of
antioxidant activity and anthocyanin content of sweet cherries
(Taghadomi-Saberi et al., 2014). A color CCD camera
(PROLINE UK, Model 565S, London, United Kingdom) was
used to obtain the cherry image. The Otsu method is used to
complete the cherry image segmentation. Two prediction
models based on ANN and adaptive neuro-fuzzy inference
system (ANFIS) were established and compared, and the
accuracy of the two models for antioxidant activity and
anthocyanin content was evaluated. The results showed that
the prediction models with the structure of 11-14-9-1 and 11-6-
20-1 based on ANN had the highest correlation coefﬁcients with
antioxidant activity and anthocyanin content, which were R =
0.93 and R = 0.98, respectively. Meanwhile, the ANFIS
prediction model obtained the best prediction results (R = 0.87
and R = 0.90) when using triangular and two-term Gaussian
membership functions. Cherry fruit skin color as an important
indicator to measure its maturity and quality has become a
research hotspot. Researchers (Wang et al., 2012; Taghadomi-
Saberi et al., 2014; Taghadomi-Saberi et al., 2015) have studied
color as an important indicator in their studies, but have
neglected the effect of cherry shape appearance on its quality.
In 2020, Mohammad Momeny ‘s team completed the analysis of
cherry quality from the perspective of cherry shape appearance
(Momeny et al., 2020). They used an improved CNN to detect
the appearance shape of cherries. The classiﬁcation algorithm
completed the classiﬁcation of regular and irregular cherries
with an accuracy of 99.4%. By using mirroring, rotation and
other methods to expand the data set, 14,380 images are ﬁnally
obtained. It is necessary to establish a perfect data set to obtain
higher classiﬁcation accuracy. In the study, the deep CNN based
on hybrid pooling was compared with KNN, ANN, Fuzzy, and
integrated decision tree methods based on histogram of gradient
and local binary pattern feature extraction methods. The results
show that the improved CNN method is suitable for the
detection of cherry appearance (regular and irregular shaped).
In the review of reported studies, we found that building a
complete and sufﬁcient image data set is a prerequisite for
obtaining accurate prediction results. Villacrés, a researcher in
Chile, installed an RGB camera on a tractor through a self-
stabilized pan-tilt for image acquisition. The camera is 1m away
from the cherry tree, and a total of 15,000 images are obtained
for the construction of the data set, which greatly improves the
efﬁciency of image acquisition (Villacrés and Cheein, 2020).
Four different color borders were used to label the cherries in
advance and different colors were used to distinguish the size of
the cherries. Faster R-CNN meta-architecture and Inception V2
were used as feature extractors for the detection of cherries. The
results show that the cherries in the image can be identiﬁed with
an accuracy of 85% and the cherries are divided into four sizes
according to the requirements of farmers. The main reason why
cherries are not detected in the study is that the fruit pixels
caused by occlusion are too small to detect (pixels less than 20).
Table 3 summarizes the studies on fruit quality detection based
on phenotypic information using RGB images.
Through the analysis of Table 3, we can conclude that the
current research on fruit color quality grading and fruit size
estimation based on the color features and geometric size
features of RGB images has achieved high accuracy. In the
above research, the recognition and classiﬁcation accuracy
based on CNN is more satisfactory. Researchers have further
improved the research accuracy based on CNN by innovating on
the infrastructure. However, in the research of small fruit
recognition with small fruit volume and complex image
acquisition environment, improving the recognition detection
rate is still the focus of the next research.
TABLE 3 Research summary of fruit quality detection based on phenotypic information using RGB images.
Fruit
types
Imaging envi-
ronment
Research aim
Research
method
Result
Ref.
Peach
Standard Lighting
Room
Color rating; Volume
estimates
Edge
detection
algorithm
Detection rate of white and brown spots: 96.7%, 85%; Size
and Color Classiﬁcation Accuracy: 96%, 90%
(Esehaghbeygi,
2010)
Cherry
Outdoor with
sufﬁcient light
Color rating;
Color Rating
System
Color Rating Accuracy: >85%
(Wang et al.,
2012)
Cherry
Uniform
illumination
environment
Antioxidant activity;
Anthocyanin content
ANN, ANFIS
Triangular: R=0.87; Gaussian membership functions:
R=0.90
(Taghadomi-
Saberi et al.,
2014)
Cherry
Inside the lighting
box
Appearance shape
classiﬁcation
CNN
Classiﬁcation accuracy: 99.4%
(Momeny, et al.,
2020)
Cherry
Outdoor in different
light conditions
Identiﬁcation and size
grading
Faster R-CNN
Recognition rate: 85%
(Villacrés and
Cheein, 2020)
Liu et al.
10.3389/fpls.2022.1084847
Frontiers in Plant Science
frontiersin.org
06

2.3 Fruit disease damage detection based
on RGB image
CNN method widely used in research related to visual
recognition, such as image classiﬁcation (Ahmad et al., 2017),
target detection and recognition (Ahmad et al., 2018b), and
image matching (Ahmad et al., 2018a). In the previous chapters,
some researchers have also reported the use of CNN to complete
related research on fruit quality. This chapter summarizes the
related research on fruit disease image classiﬁcation and
recognition based on RGB image, including fruit disease image
acquisition method, image preprocessing technology and neural
network algorithm. The feature information contained in RGB
images is mostly the phenotypic information existing in the fruit
surface, such as fruit color, size and other feature data.
Therefore, the fruit disease detection based on RGB images is
mainly aimed at the disease and damage of the fruit surface layer.
In a study on plum disease detection reported in 2020,
researcher Ahmad et al. proposed a plum disease detection
framework based on CNN (Ahmad et al., 2020). Four
structures are compared in the study: AlexNet, VGG-16,
Inception and Resnet. The data set is expanded and made
more challenging through data augmentation to achieve robust
model training. The recognition accuracy of the model before
and after data enhancement is compared. The experimental
results show that the performance of the model increases with
the increase of the number and complexity of the data set. The
research on different architectures shows that the disease
identiﬁcation and classiﬁcation results based on Inception-V3
model are the best, reaching 92%. In order to run on resource-
constrained devices, Jamil Ahmad et al. quantized the Inception-
v3 model from FP32 precision to FP16, gaining a 2× speedup
and 2× less memory requirement.
Huang et al. completed a peach fruit RGB image disease
detection method based on asymptotic non-local means
(ANLM) image algorithm and parallel convolutional neural
network fusion in 2020 (Huang et al., 2020). Firstly, ANLM is
used to remove the interference of complex background in the
image, and then parallel convolutional neural network is used to
identify peach disease features. In the research, the improved elu
activation function is used to replace the traditional Eelu
activation function, and the linear particle swarm optimization
ELM proposed in the research is used to replace the traditional
softmax layer. Through the improvement of the algorithm, the
convergence speed and accuracy of the network are signiﬁcantly
improved. The results showed that the accurate detection rates of
brown rot, black spot, anthracnose, scab and normal peach were
all above 85%, indicating that the improved parallel
convolutional neural network algorithm was an effective
method for peach disease detection.
The segmentation algorithm greatly affects the segmentation
accuracy, and accurately obtaining the region of interest is the
premise of accurately identifying the type of disease defects.
Therefore, Alosaimi et al. proposed a new CNN model for
detecting peach disease categories (Alosaimi et al., 2021). In
the study, Mask R-CNN was used to complete the segmentation
of the diseased area, and then the VGG-19 architecture was used
to identify the type of the segmented area. The peach disease
database in the study consists of a public database and photos
obtained in the natural environment. The photos obtained in the
natural environment include different types such as direct
sunlight and cloudy days. Finally, the mean Average Precision
(mAP) was used to evaluate the performance of the model. The
results showed that the improved CNN for peach disease
classiﬁcation had mAP = 94%.
Deep learning is widely used in related research using
imaging data to detect disease categories, but it is difﬁcult to
collect a large number of peach disease images, and the sample
images are unbalanced. In response to this problem, Yao et al.
proposed an improved Xception network called L2MXception
(Yao et al., 2021). The network integrates regularization terms of
L2 norm and mean. In the study, the recognition results of seven
deep learning models were compared, and the composition of
the peach disease image dataset included seven disease types.
The results show that the classiﬁcation accuracy of L2MXception
reaches 93.85%, which is 28.48% higher than that of
Xception model.
Based on the above review, we found that various machine
learning algorithms have been applied to the research ﬁeld of
fruit tree disease recognition. Compared with the traditional
technology, the application of new technology greatly improves
the detection speed and recognition classiﬁcation accuracy.
Obtaining rich and complete data sets is necessary for the
establishment of models with excellent performance. This puts
forward higher requirements for the acquisition efﬁciency of
image data sets, and automatic, efﬁcient and reliable data
acquisition equipment becomes very important.
2.4 Other related research based on fruit
RGB image
Based on the feature information obtained from RGB
images, researchers have completed related research on fruit
maturity, quality detection, disease damage and other ﬁelds. In
addition, it was also reported that relevant researchers
completed other related studies based on fruit RGB images.
In 2021, Ropelewska completed the study of cherry variety
discrimination using the acquired cherry images (Ropelewska
et al., 2021). The research proves that the discriminant model
based on texture parameters obtained from different color
channels and texture parameters obtained from different color
spaces has high recognition accuracy for cherry varieties.
Discriminant models based on histogram, co-occurrence
Liu et al.
10.3389/fpls.2022.1084847
Frontiers in Plant Science
frontiersin.org
07

matrix, run-length matrix, autoregressive model and gradient
map are considered in the experiment. The results show that the
accuracy of the model based on the texture parameters selected
from the color space is slightly higher than that of the texture
parameters obtained by inputting the color channel. In the color
channel R, X and color space, the accuracy of the texture
parameters based on histogram and co-occurrence matrix to
distinguish the three sweet cherries reached 100%. In the color
channel, the histogram model based on the color channel L
produces the highest accuracy of 97%. Similar studies have also
been applied to the ﬁeld of peach variety identiﬁcation.
Ropelewska et al. compared the classiﬁcation results of
different color channels and different discriminant models by
acquiring images of peach skin, ﬂesh, stone and seed texture.
(Ropelewska and Rutkowski, 2021). The results show that the
texture features based on different color channels can better
complete the identiﬁcation of peach varieties.
3 Phenotypic information
acquisition and related applications
based on hyperspectral image
Hyperspectral imaging technology has broad application
space in the ﬁeld of agriculture, and has gradually become one
of the important and cutting-edge technical means in
agricultural applications. The application of hyperspectral
images includes crop growth monitoring, crop stress
monitoring (Chattaraj et al., 2013), crop yield primary
estimation (Ye et al., 2006), vegetation coverage monitoring,
and non-destructive monitoring (Huang et al., 2014) of
agricultural products, providing service support for precision
agriculture and agricultural management. Compared with
multispectral images, hyperspectral imaging equipment has a
wider range of imaging wavelengths, which greatly improves the
information richness of hyperspectral images. In the processing
technology and application, the acquisition of rich spectral data
makes more reasonable and more effective analysis possible.
Therefore, hyperspectral image technology has incomparable
development potential. Hyperspectral imaging equipment is
mainly composed of halogen light source, imaging lens,
computer, transmission platform, transmission motor and
other parts.
3.1 Fruit maturity and biochemical
parameters detection based on
hyperspectral image
Hyperspectral imaging equipment obtains spectral data of
hundreds or thousands of samples with nanoscale sampling
resolution. There is inevitably a large amount of redundant
data in the rich spectral data, and more redundant data usually
lead to longer and unreliable prediction of dependent variables.
Therefore, eliminating too much redundant data has become an
inevitable process. Researchers have used many variable
selection methods, such as ANN, partial least squares (PLS),
principal component analysis (PCA), genetic algorithms (GA),
etc. For details on variable selection methods, please refer to
Xiaobo et al. (Xiaobo et al., 2010). There is no accurate range for
the research of fruit quality, and the existing related research
focuses on fruit SSC, acidity, ﬁrmness, etc. These parameters are
directly related to the fruit ﬂavor tasted by consumers.
Munera et al. obtained hyperspectral images of peach fruit
ripening process with a wavelength range of 450-1040 nm using
laboratory hyperspectral imaging equipment (Munera et al.,
2017). Internal Quality Index (IQI) and Ripening Index (RPI)
were introduced to evaluate peach fruit maturity. Variable
Importance in Projection (VIP) was used to complete the
spectral screening of hyperspectral images, and the regression
models of IQI and RPI were established based on PLS regression
analysis. Based on the spectral data of each pixel, the IQI and RPI
prediction values of the peach fruit image were obtained, and the
visualization of the peach fruit maturity distribution map was
realized. The results showed that in the prediction of IQI and
RPI of the two varieties of peach fruit, the R2 values of the two
indexes and the two varieties were greater than 0.87. Li et al.
completed a study on the detection and classiﬁcation of SSC and
PH content and maturity of cherry fruits based on near-infrared
hyperspectral imaging technology (Li et al., 2018e). The
wavelength range of hyperspectral image of cherry fruit is 874-
1734 nm, and the distance between lens and sample is 30.5 cm.
In order to accurately complete the classiﬁcation of cherry
maturity, the samples were classiﬁed by ﬁve orchard owners
according to the principle of majority, and the classiﬁcation
model of cherry maturity was established by supervised learning
method Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA). According to the
spectral characteristic parameters of different maturity
categories, the classiﬁcation of cherry maturity was completed.
The results show that the accuracy of the classiﬁcation model
is 96.4%.
The relevant literature shows that the research methods
based on hyperspectral images have been widely used in the
research of fruit maturity, including the optical index (Lleó et al.,
2011) based on spectral image acquisition for maturity detection
and grading, and the maturity prediction and grading based on
the established prediction model (Munera et al., 2017; Li et al.,
2018e). The summary of related research in recent years is
completed through Table 4.
From the Table 4, we found that the wavelength range used
in the study was mostly concentrated near the chlorophyll
absorption peak and SSC absorption peak. This is because the
content of biochemical substances in the fruit will change with
the change of maturity. The feasibility of fruit maturity
classiﬁcation by detecting the content of biochemical
Liu et al.
10.3389/fpls.2022.1084847
Frontiers in Plant Science
frontiersin.org
08

substances has been veriﬁed by relevant researchers. However,
there are some differences in wavelength selection among
different varieties.
In 2017, Zhu et al. obtained hyperspectral images of different
slices inside peaches using visible and short-wave near-infrared
spectral imaging equipment (380-1030 nm) and long-wave near-
infrared spectral imaging equipment (874-1734 nm) (Zhu et al.,
2017). Savitzky-Golay smoothing and standard normal variate
transformation were used to preprocess the spectral images.
Subsequently, PLSR and LS-SVM modeling methods were
established and compared. In their study, the contents of
protopectin, water-soluble pectin and total pectin were predicted
respectively, and results showed that the prediction model had
better prediction results for protopectin than for water-soluble
pectin. According to this result, it was analyzed that water-soluble
pectin dissolved in the process of destructively obtaining peach
slices. The visualization of peach fruit pectin content distribution
was also completed in the study. Pectin content is considered to be
closely related to maturity. Pectin distribution map can be used as
an indicator to provide guidance for understanding fruit ripening
and post-harvest storage systems. In the subsequent study, Li et al.
completed the detection of non-destructive quality attributes of
plum fruit from three quality indicators: color, ﬁrmness and SSC (Li
et al., 2018a). Two hyperspectral cameras with wavelength ranges of
600-975 nm in visible and near infrared (VNIR) region and 865-
1610 nm in short wave near infrared (SWIR) region were used to
obtain hyperspectral images of two varieties of plum fruits. Because
the surface of plum fruit is smooth and has strong reﬂection, which
is different from peach fruit, the intensity offruit edge in the sample
spectral image is low. They cited the automatic correction method
for light scattering of spherical objects developed by Gomez-Sanchis
et al. to improve this phenomenon (Gómez-Sanchis et al., 2008). At
the same time, a PLSR model was established for the non-
destructive measurement of ﬁrmness, SSC and color components
of two different plum varieties. The results showed that there was a
strong correlation between SSC and SWIR spectra, and the
predicted correlation coefﬁcient rp
2 was greater than 0.8. The
VNIR spectrum has a good correlation with color, and the rp
2
value is greater than 0.7 for L* and a*. Both hyperspectral imaging
systems have low prediction accuracy for hardness.Shen et al.
predicted the SSC of green plum using sparse autoencoder (SAE)
in a study reported in 2020 (Shen et al., 2020). SAE is an
unsupervised machine learning algorithm, which continuously
adjusts the autoencoder parameters and ﬁnally completes the
model training by calculating the error between the autoencoder
output and the original input. The hyperspectral imaging
equipment used in the experiment has a spectral range of 400-
1000 nm and a spectral resolution of 2.8 nm. A multi-layer network
model SAE-PLSR was proposed to predict SSC, and the sparsity
parameter r was set to 0.01 (Tang et al., 2016). At the same time,
BP, SVR, PLSR, SAE-BP, SAE-SVP and SAE-PLSR were compared.
The results showed that SAE-PLSR model had the best prediction
results, r and root mean square error (RMSE) of prediction set were
0.938 and 0.654 respectively.
With the improvement of deep learning theory, Yang et al.
introduced deep learning theory into the prediction of SSC content
of peach, and proposed a SSC estimation method of fresh peach
based on deep features of hyperspectral image fusion information
(Yang et al., 2020). The distance from the peach sample to the lens is
220 mm, the wavelength range is 900-1740 nm, and the spectral
resolution is 5 nm. In the research, the stacked autoencoder is used
for the depth feature of the spectrum and the depth feature
extraction of the image. Unlike the sparse autoencoder used by
Shen et al. (Shen et al., 2020), the stacked autoencoder is a cascade of
multiple autoencoders to complete the task of layer-by-layer feature
extraction. The resulting features are more representative and have
a small dimension. Finally, a stack autoencoder - random forest
peach SSC estimation model based on hyperspectral image fusion
information depth features was established. The results show that
the estimation model with the network structure of 1237-650-310-
130 has the highest accuracy, the training set R2 = 0.9184, and the
validation set R2 = 0.8838. In 2022, Xuan et al. completed the
analysis of SSC, ﬁrmness, diameter, weight and other internal and
external quality of peach fruit based on hyperspectral images (Xuan
et al., 2022). The wavelength range of hyperspectral image is 400-
1000 nm, and the distance between the sample and the lens is set to
47 cm. The CARS and random frog algorithms were used to select
effective wavelengths, and a non-destructive regression model for
TABLE 4 Summary of research on maturity detection based on hyperspectral imaging.
Research Objective
Research
object
Method
Wavelength
coverage
Wavelength
screening
Optical
index
Model
Ref.
Fruit Maturity Detection of
Prunoideae
Peach
Optical
index
640, 675, 680, 720,
730, 800 nm
/
Ind1, Ind2,
Ind3, IAD
/
(Lleó et al.,
2011)
Peach
Forecasting
model
380-1030 nm
SPA, UVE, CARS
/
PLSR, LS-
SVM
(Zhu et al.,
2016)
Peach
450-1040 nm
VIP
/
PLS
(Munera
et al., 2017)
Cherry
874-1734 nm
GA, SPA
/
LDA
(Li et al.,
2018e)
Liu et al.
10.3389/fpls.2022.1084847
Frontiers in Plant Science
frontiersin.org
09

predicting SSC and ﬁrmness was established based on multiple
linear regression (MLR). The results showed that the CARS-MLR
model had a good prediction effect on SSC, and the training set and
validation set were R2
C 0.856 and R2
V 0.841, respectively. In the
study, the estimation information of fruit size and weight was
obtained by extracting pixel diameter and area, the estimation of
peach diameter was completed by using the minimum boundary
rectangle method, and the weight of peach fruit was predicted by
MLR model. The results showed that the maximum error was
3.14 mm, the average absolute error was 0.94 mm and the average
percentage error was 1.01%. The MLR regression model was
established for weight estimation. The training set and validation
set were R2
C = 0.946 and R2
V = 0.957, respectively.
Li et al. completed a study on the detection and classiﬁcation
of SSC and PH content and maturity of cherry fruit based on
near-infrared hyperspectral imaging technology (Li et al.,
2018e). The research content related to maturity detection and
classiﬁcation has been summarized in the previous chapters.
Here, the related research on SSC and PH content is reviewed.
The cherry samples studied completed the establishment of
calibration set and validation set according to the principle of
interval sampling. Principal components regression model and
PLSR model based on full spectrum and GA-MLR model based
on characteristic bands were established. For the prediction
model established by full spectral band, the prediction result of
SSC is better than that of PH, the reason is that the ﬂuctuation
range of PH value is too small, and the PH value only ﬂuctuates
between 3.3 and 4.1. The GA and SPA wavelength selection
algorithm are compared in establishing the prediction model
with characteristic band as input. The results show that the
prediction model of feature wavelength screening by GA has
achieved better results. The prediction evaluation indexes of GA-
MLR model are shown in the article. Table 5 summarizes the
application of fruit quality detection based on phenotypic
information through hyperspectral images in recent years.
Through Table 5, it can be seen that the acquisition
environment of fruit hyperspectral images required by
researchers still stays in a relatively stable acquisition
environment such as laboratory and closed dark box. Such an
environment does not require strong mobility of imaging
equipment, and signiﬁcantly reduces the impact of external
light sources on images.
3.2 Fruit disease damage detection based
on hyperspectral image
Many researchers have focused on the use of hyperspectral
imaging technology to detect fruit phenotype information to
achieve damage detection for fruit diseases, including disease
identiﬁcation, classiﬁcation and quantiﬁcation (Du et al., 2020).
Compared with traditional disease damage detection,
hyperspectral imaging technology provides an efﬁcient non-
destructive detection method (Wang et al., 2015). This section
mainly introduces the application of hyperspectral image in
prunoideae fruit disease damage detection.
The types of fruit disease damage are diverse and complex.
Due to the existence of disease damage, the phenotypic
information expressed by the fruit is abnormal, which reﬂects
the abnormal spectral characteristics on the spectral image. In
2016, Li et al. completed the detection and recognition of nine
defects in a two-color peach based on hyperspectral images (Li
et al., 2016). The wavelength range of the hyperspectral image is
325-1100 nm, the spectral resolution is 2.8 nm, the distance
between the sample and the lens is set to 400 mm, and the image
acquisition environment is a closed darkroom. Principal
component regression and PCA was used to complete the
wavelength selection of hyperspectral image. In the study,
according to the weight coefﬁcient of each band, the spectral
wavelength image corresponding to the maximum difference of
weight coefﬁcient is selected to obtain the dual wavelength ratio
image and complete the detection of disease damage. The results
show that the defect recognition effect of ratio image is better
than that of single wavelength image, and the total detection rate
of nine defects is 96.6%. In the subsequent study, the Li ‘s team
completed the detection of early bruises on peaches (Li et al.,
2018c). Accurate non-destructive testing of early bruises is a
challenging task. Due to being in the early stage of bruises,
peaches have not signiﬁcantly improved in appearance. In the
study, they used two hyperspectral spectrometers for image
acquisition, with spectral ranges of 325-1100 nm and 930-2548
nm, respectively, and used PCA to complete the wavelength
screening of hyperspectral images. They proposed an improved
watershed segmentation algorithm and compared it with the
traditional Ostu segmentation algorithm and global threshold
segmentation method. The results of the study showed that the
accurate recognition rate of damaged peaches reached 96.5%,
and the accurate recognition rate of healthy peaches reached
97.5%. Their proposed method of using hyperspectral images
combined with improved watershed segmentation algorithm to
detect early peach bruises is an effective method that can
accurately and non-destructively detect early peach bruises.
Peach is a perishable fruit, in order to extend the storage
time of peaches, peaches are usually stored at low temperature.
Peaches will suffer from freezing damage due to low temperature
for a long time, resulting in a decrease in their market value. The
symptoms are peach fruit texture deterioration and lack of juice.
Pan et al. established a hyperspectral imaging system based on
laboratory environment to detect cold injury of peach (Pan et al.,
2016). The wavelength range of hyperspectral image used was
400-1000 nm, and the lens was 400 mm above the sample. The
discrimination model of peach fruit cold injury was established
by using multi-layer perception artiﬁcial neural network
(MLPANN). The comparison test of full spectrum input and
eight optimal wavelengths input was completed. The results
showed that the overall classiﬁcation accuracy of MLPANN
Liu et al.
10.3389/fpls.2022.1084847
Frontiers in Plant Science
frontiersin.org
10

peach cold injury discriminant model based on characteristic
wavelength was 92.9%. Pan et al. also proposed the cold injury
(CI) index to quantify the frostbite degree of peach fruit. The
formula for obtaining the cold injury (CI) index is as follows: CI
index = [(CI score) × (number of fruits with this CI score)]/(3 ×
total number of fruits). Sun, a member of the same team, studied
chlorophyll content to detect decayed honey peaches in the
following year (Sun et al., 2017). In this study, the wavelength
range of hyperspectral imaging is 400-1000 nm, and the sample
is 22 cm closer to the lens. For the spectral data of hyperspectral
images, the successive projection algorithm (SPA) is used to
complete the selection of characteristic wavelengths
(617,675,818 nm). The prediction models of chlorophyll
content based on PLS and SPA-PLS were established. The
prediction sets rp of the two models were 0.904 and 0.858,
respectively, and RMSEP were 0.633% and 0.751%, respectively.
Based on the characteristic wavelength ratio image, the
recognition of peach decay area was completed. The results
showed that the classiﬁcation accuracy of healthy peach and
diseased peach was 98.75% by using three characteristic
wavelength ratio images. In the same year, Sun developed a
hyperspectral imaging system with a 360° rotating platform to
detect varying degrees of fungal infection in peaches (Sun et al.,
2018). Such improvements are very helpful for the identiﬁcation
of decay occurring in different locations of peach fruit. In the
study, the disease damage area was quantiﬁed into four
categories, no decay, mild decay, moderate decay, and severe
decay, with recognition rates of 95%, 66.29%, 100%, and 100%,
respectively. The low recognition of mild decay can be attributed
to the fact that the changes of internal physical and chemical
properties of mild decay peaches are less affected by fungal
infection, so they are not easy to be detected and identiﬁed.
Li et al. ‘s research on peach disease damage classiﬁcation
was done from the perspective of time (Li et al., 2021). The
spectral reﬂectance of bruised fruits will decrease due to the
presence of bruises, which is related to the ﬁrmness, density,
titratable acid (TA), vitamin C and moisture after bruises. The
reﬂectance of fruits in different time periods after bruises also
changes, and as time increases, the color of the bruise position
will gradually brown. Based on this, Li et al. used hyperspectral
imaging technology to complete the classiﬁcation of peach
bruises at different time periods (12h, 24h, 36h, 48h). The
TABLE 5 Summary of fruit quality detection based on phenotypic information from hyperspectral imaging.
Research
Object
Biochemical
parameter
Imaging
environment
Wavelength
coverage
Wavelength
screening
Model
Evaluating indicator
Ref.
Peach slices
Protopectin,
Water-soluble
pectin and Total
pectin
Laboratory
environment
380-1030 nm
and 874-1734
nm
SPA, UVE,
CARS
PLSR, LS-
SVM
Protopectin: RPD=2.264;
Water-soluble pectin and Total
pectin are poor predictors
(Zhu et al.,
2017)
Peach
SSC
Sealed black box
325-1100 nm
MC-UVE,
CARS, RF
PLS
Set-I: rp=0.9192, RMSEP=0.3967
Set-III: rp=0.8469,
RMSEP=0.4260
(Li et al.,
2018d)
Plum
Color, ﬁrmness,
SSC
Laboratory
environment
600-975 nm and
865-1610 nm
PCA
PLSR
SSC: rp
2>0.8
L* and a*: rp
2>0.7
(Li et al.,
2018a)
Green plun
SSC
Laboratory
environment
400-1000 nm
SAE
BP, SVR,
PLSR, SAE-
BP, SAE-
SVP, SAE-
PLSR
SAE-PLSR: rp=0.938;
RMSEP=0.654
(Shen et al.,
2020)
Peach
SSC
Sealed black box
900-1740 nm
Stacked
Autoencoder
random
forest
Calibration set R2 = 0.9184;
Validation set R2 = 0.8838
(Yang et al.,
2020)
Cherry
TSS and
ﬁrmness
Dark room
500-1500 nm
VIP
PLSR, GPR
GPR: TSS: RPDT=3.4, R2
T=0.88,
RMSET=0.43%; Firmness:
RPDT=2.54, R2
T=0.60,
RMSET=0.38N; PICP: 0.90-0.97
(Pullanagari
and Li,
2020)
Peach
SSC, ﬁrmness,
diameter, weight
Laboratory
environment
400-1000 nm
CARS and
RF
CARS-MLR;
MLR
SSC: R2
V: 0.841, RMSEV: 0.546;
RPD: 2.51,
Firmness: R2
V: 0.826; RMSEV:
1.008, RPD: 2.401
Weight: R2
v=0.957, RMSEV:
9.203, RPD: 4.819
(Xuan et al.,
2022)
Cherry
SSC and PH
Sealed black box
874-1734 nm
SPR; GA
PCA; PLSR;
GA-MLR;
SPA-MLR
GA-MLR: SSC: RC
2 = 0.897,
RMSEC= 1.054, RP
2 = 0.863,
RMSEP=1.210 RPD=2.700
(Li et al.,
2018e)
Liu et al.
10.3389/fpls.2022.1084847
Frontiers in Plant Science
frontiersin.org
11

wavelength range of hyperspectral imaging technology is 380-
1080 nm, the spectral resolution is 2.8 nm, and the imaging
environment is a closed darkroom environment. In the study,
PCA was used to complete the screening of spectral
characteristic wavelengths, and the average gray value feature
of the bruise position was used as the image feature. A
discriminant classiﬁcation model based on PLS-DA and LS-
SVM was established. The results showed that when the input
variables were spectral features, the classiﬁcation accuracy of
PLS-DA model for peaches at 12,24,36 and 48 h after bruising
was 96.67%, 96.67%, 93.33% and 83.33% respectively, and the
correlation coefﬁcient of training set was rc = 0.928. Based on the
LS-SVM algorithm, the correct classiﬁcation of 12,24,36 and
48 h after bruising was 80%, 96.67%, 100% and 100%. This study
can complete the detection of bruises as soon as possible. When
the damage is softened and visible to the naked eye, the peach
has lost its market value. Early detection of damage is necessary
to reduce the loss. Table 6 summarizes the research on fruit
disease damage detection based on phenotypic information
through hyperspectral images in recent years.
Through the summary of Table 6, we found that the types of
disease damage detected based on hyperspectral images are
abundant, including different types of defects located on the
surface and inside. It is one of the advantages of hyperspectral
imaging technology that the detection of multiple types of
defects in the interior of the fruit is completed by the change
of spectral characteristics presented by the acquired
hyperspectral image, thus ensuring the integrity of the fruit. At
the same time, we can also see that the detection objects in the
reviewed related studies are concentrated on peaches. This may
be because the volume of peaches is easier to complete the
related research in the fruit of Prunoideae, and the peach fruit is
more conducive to the progress of related research due to the low
light reﬂection phenomenon on the surface.
3.3 Other related research based on fruit
hyperspectral image
As a new detection technology, hyperspectral imaging
technology is widely used by researchers because of its high
efﬁciency, non-destructive and accurate detection
characteristics. In addition to the above summary of the
article, there are other applications related reports.
Munera ‘s team used hyperspectral images to identify
nectarine varieties with similar appearance but different
varieties (Munera et al., 2018). The imaging method of
hyperspectral image is reﬂection imaging, and the wavelength
range is 450-1040 nm. In the study, it was found that there were
signiﬁcant differences in the spectra of the two nectarines in the
wavelength range near 680 nm and 970 nm, which indicated that
there were differences in chlorophyll (Herrero-Langreo et al.,
2011) and water content (Lu and Peng, 2006) between the two
nectarines. The regression coefﬁcient vector was used to
determine the 14 optimal wavelengths, and a variety
classiﬁcation model based on PLS-DA was established. The
average spectrum of a single fruit was used as the model input
feature. The results show that the classiﬁcation accuracy reaches
96.3%. The study also compared the variety classiﬁcation based
on hyperspectral images and color visual images. The results
TABLE 6
Summary for the detection of fruit disease and damage based on phenotypic information using hyperspectral imaging.
Research
object
Disease damage type
Wavelength
range (nm)
Feature
extraction
Method
Result
Ref.
Bi-colored
peaches
Skin injury, scarring, insect, damage,
puncture, injury, decay, disease, spots,
dehiscent, scarring and anthracnose
325-1100 nm
PCA
Ratio images
Accuracy: 96.6%
(Li
et al.,
2016)
Peach
Early abrasions
325-1100 nm
and 930-2548
nm
PCA
Image
segmentation
Damage peach: 96.5%
Non-destructive peach: 97.5%
(Li
et al.,
2018c)
Peach
Cold injury
400-1000 nm
/
MLP, ANN
Accuracy of cold-injured peaches: 95.8%
(Pan
et al.,
2016)
Honey
peaches
Peach decay
400-1000 nm
SPA
PLS, SPA-
PLS
PLS: rp=0.904, RMSEP=0.751% SPA-
PLS: rp=0.858, RMSEP=0.633%
(Sun
et al.,
2017)
Peach
Fungal infection
400-1000 nm
SPA
PLS-DA
No decay: 95% Slight decay: 66.29%
Moderate decay: 100% Severe decay:
100%
(Sun
et al.,
2018)
Peach
Bruises
380-1080 nm
PCA
PLS-DA, LS-
SVM
12h, 24h, 36h, 48h after bruising; PLS-
DA: 96.67%, 96.67%, 93.33% and
83.33% LS-SVM: 80%, 96.67%, 100%,
100%
(Li
et al.,
2021)
Liu et al.
10.3389/fpls.2022.1084847
Frontiers in Plant Science
frontiersin.org
12

showed that the variety discrimination ability based on color
vision image was low due to the high similarity of geometry and
color of two nectarine varieties. In recent years, with the rapid
development of image processing technology, spectral image and
analysis technology, computer and data processing technology,
hyperspectral imaging technology has been widely used in fruit
phenotypic information and related research, such as maturity
detection, fruit quality grading, disease damage identiﬁcation
and so on.
The image information and rich spectral data contained in
hyperspectral images are the basis for the wide application of
hyperspectral technology. For different use requirements and
application ﬁelds, it is also necessary to select the wavelength
range with the strongest correlation. Therefore, the choice of the
optimal wavelength is also one of the problems faced by
researchers. With the gradual improvement of machine
learning theory, wavelength screening methods are also
divided into two main methods: statistical methods and
machine learning methods. There are more and more
literatures using machine learning methods for data
dimensionality reduction and model building, indicating that
the combination of fruit phenotype information research based
on hyperspectral image and intelligent computing is the general
trend. However, there is no uniform and clear evaluation criteria
for evaluating traditional modeling methods and machine
learning-based modeling methods. In future research, the
promotion of advanced technologies in practical production
applications is also a ﬁeld that cannot be ignored, pushing
imaging equipment toward smaller, more sophisticated, lower
cost, wider use of the environment, and faster, more accurate,
and more efﬁcient algorithms for wavelength selection and
prediction models.
4 Phenotypic information
acquisition and related applications
based on multispectral image
In recent years, researchers have been exploring the use of
spectral imaging equipment to obtain fruit phenotypic
information, and based on the obtained fruit phenotypic
information to achieve fruit disease damage (Kemps et al.,
2010), fruit maturity and biochemical content (Li et al., 2018d)
and other related applications. Multispectral images usually
contain several to more than a dozen spectral bands, and some
groups contained in organic substances, such as C-H, O-H, N-H,
etc., these groups absorb energy in the spectral imaging bands
used by multispectral imaging devices, resulting in changes in
reﬂection or transmission spectra (Saranwong et al., 2004).
After the light beam emitted by the light source of the
multispectral imaging device irradiates the surface of the fruit
to be tested, part of the light beam will be reﬂected back after
reaching the fruit to be tested, while the other part of the light
beam will penetrate the fruit and scatter in different directions.
Therefore, the imaging mode of the multispectral imaging device
includes reﬂection imaging and transmission imaging. When the
content of substance to be detected (SSC, TA, etc.) of fruit
samples is different, different fruit samples will produce different
spectral curves. Therefore, the corresponding relationship
between the spectral data and the substance to be detected can
be established according to the spectral characteristics of fruit
samples, so as to realize the quantitative analysis of the content
of the detected substance (Pissard et al., 2013). The researchers
completed the measurement and analysis of relevant biomass,
and combined the fruit biomass measurement research with
practical application to explore the fruit maturity, disease
damage, biochemical content and other related studies based
on phenotype information.
4.1 Fruit maturity and biochemical
parameters detection based on
multispectral image
There are many criteria for determining the fruit maturity.
These indicators include phenotypic information such as
physical properties of the fruit (Herrero-Langreo et al., 2012)
and biochemical parameters (Herrero-Langreo et al.,
2011).Accurately grasping the fruit ripening stage is of great
signiﬁcance for guiding fruit picking time, post-harvest storage
and fruit ﬂavor. In recent years, signiﬁcant progress has been
made in the research on the acquisition of Prunoideae fruit
phenotypic information based on multispectral images. The
relevant research literature is summarized in Table 7.
Firmness is one of the most signiﬁcant indicators of change
during fruit ripening. Traditional methods for measuring fruit
ﬁrmness such as micro-deformation measuring instruments and
Magness-Taylor penetration/deformation resistance measuring
instruments. However, these methods are harmful to fruit
integrity and have the disadvantages of time-consuming and
low accuracy. Spanish researcher M.Ruiz-Altisent ﬁrst studied
the relationship between peach fruit hardness and spectral
wavelength to reﬂect the maturity of peaches (Ruiz-Altisent
et al., 2006), and designed traditional measurement methods
to verify the accuracy of optical measurement of peach fruit
hardness. In the study, the spectral wavelengths of 450 nm and
680 nm were ﬁnally determined. The results of principal
component analysis showed that the above two wavelengths
were independent and complementary. The prediction model of
spectral reﬂectance and hardness was established, the
determination coefﬁcient R2 = 0.78. At the same time, it was
found that there were some differences in the setting of
parameters when establishing prediction models for different
varieties of peach fruits. The two spectral wavelengths obtained
Liu et al.
10.3389/fpls.2022.1084847
Frontiers in Plant Science
frontiersin.org
13

by principal component analysis are consistent with previous
studies (Lu and Peng, 2006). In the study of Lu and Peng, it was
found that the reﬂectance at 450 nm and 680 nm was related to
carotenoid and chlorophyll content, respectively.
The researchers completed a test of maturity classiﬁcation
program based on multispectral images of peach fruits (Herrero-
Langreo et al., 2011). The multispectral image data of peach fruits
used in the veriﬁcation were obtained from the same variety but
different years. At the same time, the fruit segmentation problem of
peach fruit multispectral image is optimized, and the triangle
threshold segmentation algorithm is used to complete the
segmentation of the region of interest of peach fruit infrared
image. Compared with Otsu method, the triangle threshold
segmentation method reduces the inﬂuence of highlight spots on
fruits and irregularity in image background. Comparing the
segmented images using the Otsu method and the triangle
threshold segmentation method, in the experiment of peach fruit
size estimation, the explained variance between the fruit
measurement size and the image estimation size increased from
90% (Otsu) to 96%.
In the process of fruit ripening, the most intuitive and easy to
observe phenomenon is that with the change of fruit maturity, fruit
hardness will decrease signiﬁcantly. In-depth exploration of the
reasons we can know that this is due to the decomposition of certain
biochemical substances within the fruit as the maturity changes.
Therefore, in the detection of fruit maturity, the researchers in
addition to the detection of hardness index, fruit chlorophyll
content, fruit total soluble solids content (SSC), acidity,
antioxidant components and other biochemical substances were
also tried to measure. The traditional method for measuring the
content of biochemical substances in fruit has the disadvantages of
time consuming, damaging the integrity of fruit and large error.
With the continuous exploration of researchers and technological
progress, the detection technology based on various types of images
for fruit internal biochemical content has gradually demonstrated
the potential to replace traditional methods.
In addition to using multispectral images, some multispectral
indices can also be used to detect fruit maturity. In subsequent
reports, the researchers used four spectral indicators to detect peach
fruit maturity (Lleó et al., 2011). It includes two new optical indices
Ind1 and Ind2, and two previously used indices Ind3 (Sims and
Gamon, 2002; Lleó et al., 2009) and IAD (Ziosi et al., 2008). The
selection of the four optical indexes is within the range of
chlorophyll absorption peak, and the change of optical index
reﬂects the change of chlorophyll in fruit with maturity. The
ability of four spectral indicators to distinguish fruit maturity was
evaluated from two perspectives: (1) Maturity perception. The
parameter L is introduced to evaluate the ability of each optical
index to distinguish the maturity of peach fruit. The L parameter
scores of the four indicators are as follows: L (Ind2) > L (Ind1) > L
(IAD) > L (Ind3). (2) Robustness of indicators related to fruit
convexity. The purpose of this comparison is to analyze which
indicators are affected by fruit convexity. In the test of the effect of
fruit convexity on spectral indexes, the results showed that only
Ind1 was affected. In the study of L. Lleó, the intensity distribution
of four optical indices in peach fruit images was obtained. It was
found that the index Ind2 had the highest ability to distinguish
maturity and was not affected by fruit convexity. Ind2 also allows
the division of mature regions in the fruit and shows the evolution
of these regions during ripening. In recent reports, researchers have
tried to use changes in chlorophyll absorption index IAD to reﬂect
peach fruit maturity (Ziosi et al., 2008). IAD as an optical index
reﬂects the absorbance difference between 670 nm and 720 nm
wavelengths. In the experiment, the linear regression method was
used to establish the relationship between IAD index and chlorophyll
content, appearance color (L*, a*, b*), hardness, extractable juice
and SSC/TA ratio of six different varieties of peach fruit. The results
showed that the higher the IAD value, the higher chlorophyll
content, hardness, TA and b* values, and the lower a* value. IAD
was signiﬁcantly positively correlated with chlorophyll (r2 > 0.8)
and hardness (r2 > 0.6). The higher the IAD value, the higher the TA
content of the peach, while the SSC did not change, so the peach
fruits with different IAD values had different SSC/TA ratios. The
results showed that IAD index could divide peaches into different
maturity groups according to chlorophyll content, SSC/TA and fruit
ﬁrmness. They also found that such predictions were inaccurate for
TABLE 7 Summary table of fruit maturity and biochemical parameters detection based on multispectral image.
Research
object
Wavelength
coverage
Testing
index
Processing method
Result
Ref.
Peaches
450, 689 nm;
Firmness
PCA+MLR
R2 = 0.78
(Ruiz-Altisent
et al., 2006)
Peach
632, 650, 670, 780,
850, 900 nm
SSC and
ﬁrmness
Lorentzian distribution (LD), Gaussian distribution
(GD), Exponential distribution (ED)
MLR
r=0.949, SEP=1.56 N,
r=0.970, SEP=0.69°Brix
(Muhua et al.,
2007)
Peach
450, 675, 800 nm
Firmness
Ward classiﬁcation algorithm, ANOVA, regressions
R/IR imaged>R image
(Lleó et al.,
2009)
Cherry
550, 660, 735, 790
nm
Antioxidant
Activity
XGBoost, RF, SVR, MLP
RMSE=6.74; MAPE=15.06
(Karydas et al.,
2020)
Liu et al.
10.3389/fpls.2022.1084847
Frontiers in Plant Science
frontiersin.org
14

the internal quality of peach fruit, which was caused by the
attenuation of light in peach fruit.
The imaging systems of the above researchers are mostly
laboratory multispectral imaging systems. In the study of Karydas
et al., multispectral imaging equipment was installed on an
unmanned aerial vehicle platform to obtain four bands of cherry
orchard aerial multispectral images (550,660,735,790 nm) (Karydas
et al., 2020). The detection model of antioxidant components in
cherry fruit was established by machine learning method, and the
free radical scavenging activity (DPPH) of cherry fruit was analyzed.
Three spectral indices were extracted based on multispectral images:
normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI), carotenoid
reﬂectance index 2 (CRI2) and anthocyanin reﬂectance index
(ARI). Four machine learning algorithms are tested: extreme
gradient boosting (XGBoost), random forest (RF), support vector
regression (SVR) and multi-perceptron (MLP). The smaller RMSE
and mean absolute percentage error (MAPE) obtained using the
XGBoost algorithm in the study of the data obtained in 2018 were
6.74 and 15.06, respectively. In further studies, Karydas et al. were
able to extend the prediction of DPPH for cherries throughout the
orchard to accurately predict the maturity of cherries in different
regions, guiding managers in the harvesting of cherries. The spectral
indices (NDVI, CRI2, ARI) used in his research are the fusion of
two or more bands of spectral data obtained by certain
mathematical calculations (Crocombe, 2018). With the help of
similar vegetation index (VI), the relevant research conclusions
can be more obvious.
Multispectral imaging technology has been proved to be a
feasible method for detecting fruit maturity and biochemical
parameters. Compared with the traditional method, the detection
method based on multispectral image has the advantages of high
efﬁciency and non-destructive. However, the laboratory
multispectral imaging equipment has higher requirements on the
use environment, which also limits the application of multispectral
image detection maturity and biochemical parameters in actual
production. With the development of technology, such as UAV
platform multispectral imaging equipment, portable multispectral
equipment has been gradually developed, compared to the
laboratory imaging equipment is small and easy to use features
are more signiﬁcant. Very useful for non-researchers (Li et al.,
2018b). The research on fruit ﬁrmness, fruit SSC, size estimation
and antioxidant content based on fruit multispectral images can
provide guidance for fruit harvest time, fruit quality classiﬁcation
and fruit postharvest storage. It improves the quality offruit, ensures
its market value, and conforms to the development concept of
precision agriculture.
4.2 Fruit disease damage detection based
on multispectral image
Fruit disease damage is one of the most direct factors
affecting fruit quality (Sun et al., 2019). The types of disease
damage can be classiﬁed as existing in the fruit surface and fruit
interior. The causes of diseases exist in many processes such as
fruit growth, picking, and storage. Fruits with disease damage are
more likely to rot, and if not treated in time, they can even cause
lesions in other normal fruits. The multispectral image of fruit
contains rich phenotypic information, and the detection of
disease damage by multispectral image of fruit has been
veriﬁed by many researchers.
Based on the phenomenon that the spectral characteristics of
different disease damage tissues in fruit multispectral images are
different, the detection of various types of fruit damage can be
completed by using multispectral images. An improved
enhanced GA-ANN is used to detect and classify different
defect types in cherry multispectral images (Guyer and Yang,
2000). In this study, multispectral images of cherries were
obtained by a non-portable multispectral imager and three
spectral wavelengths of 680, 920 and 1120 nm were ﬁnally
selected to complete the classiﬁcation of seven different tissue
types (dry crack, decay, mold, good tissue, background, stem or
highlight). Researcher Daniel Guyer combines GA with ANN,
and GA was used to optimize the weight of multi-layer
feedforward artiﬁcial neural network. The results showed that
the correct recognition rate of different tissue types reached 92%,
while the correct recognition and accurate quantiﬁcation of
tissue types was only 72%. As can be seen from the results,
more errors were made in the quantiﬁcation process due to the
similarity of the two types of defects, some moldy tissues were
mistaken for rotten tissues. Sun et al. established a multispectral
structured illumination reﬂection imaging system for the
detection of early fungal infection in peach (Sun et al., 2019).
The recognition rate of early fungal infection in peach fruit
reached 98.6%, and the recognition rate of early infection
without disease symptoms reached 97.6%. This study is the
ﬁrst time that the multispectral structured light reﬂection
imaging system has been applied to detect fungal infection in
peach fruits. Images of seven wavelengths between 690 and 810
nm at three different spatial frequencies of 60, 100 and 150 m−1
were obtained by the structured illumination reﬂection imaging
system, followed by demodulation to obtain alternating
component (AC) images and direct component (DC) images.
Based on the acquired AC image, DC image and ratio image,
three image classiﬁcation methods, watershed algorithm, partial
least squares discriminant analysis (PLS-DA) and CNN, were
used to complete the detection and recognition of peach fruit
lesions. The results show that AC images with wavelength and
spatial frequency of 730 nm and 100 m−1 have high consistency,
high detection rate and accuracy in disease region recognition
and region estimation. In the horizontal comparison of
classiﬁcation algorithms, CNN is the best, followed by
watershed segmentation algorithm.
Using multi-spectral imaging technology to detect fruit
damage can efﬁciently and accurately complete the detection
requirements, and give objective and quantitative evaluation
Liu et al.
10.3389/fpls.2022.1084847
Frontiers in Plant Science
frontiersin.org
15

(Alfatni et al., 2013). Therefore, fruit disease damage detection
based on multi-spectral imaging technology has important
research signiﬁcance, and it is also very important to promote
the automation, digitization and intelligent construction of fruit
detection system. With the improvement of ANN algorithm, it
has been widely used in image classiﬁcation applications for
disease damage types. The traditional image classiﬁer needs to
select feature vectors for the classiﬁcation of fruit disease
damage. If the feature selection is improper or insufﬁcient, the
classiﬁcation accuracy will be directly affected. In comparison,
the advantage of CNN model for image recognition is that its
multi-level mechanism can extract and identify complex visual
features, so the advantage of CNN is obvious. In addition, the
defective tissues of fruits are often a combination of several types
of defects, which complicates the identiﬁcation and description
of defects. Therefore, for each type of defect, the combination of
the selected optimal wavelength and image processing
operations can help to better complete the identiﬁcation and
detection. The wavelength composition of the fruit multispectral
image is shown in Figure 3.
5 Phenotypic information
acquisition and related applications
based on other types of image
In the summary and review of the acquisition of phenotypic
information of Prunoideae fruits based on multispectral images,
hyperspectral images and RGB images and related applications,
we also found that some other imaging techniques were used in
the related research of phenotypic information acquisition of
Prunoideae fruits, including thermal imaging technology,
computer tomography (CT) technology, laser-light
backscattering imaging (LLBI) and so on. These imaging
techniques have not been widely used in the related research
FIGURE 3
Wavelength composition of multispectral image.
Liu et al.
10.3389/fpls.2022.1084847
Frontiers in Plant Science
frontiersin.org
16

of the Prunoideae fruit, but they cannot be ignored. In the
following sections, we analyze and review the cited literature
according to different imaging techniques.
5.1 Phenotypic information acquisition
based on thermal imaging technology
and related research
The thermal imaging equipment uses the infrared detector
and the optical imaging mirror to receive the infrared radiation
energy of the measured target, and reﬂects the energy
distribution to the photosensitive element of the infrared
detector, so as to obtain the thermal image of the measured
target. The obtained thermal image corresponds to the thermal
distribution of the measured object (Lee et al., 2019). The
imaging methods of thermal imaging equipment include active
system and passive system. Compared with passive system,
active system usually includes heating or cooling system.
Cherry is a kind of fruit which is sensitive to the surface
temperature and humidity. Fruit cracking caused by abnormal
changes in fruit surface temperature and humidity will seriously
affect its market value. Osroosh et al. used thermal imager-RGB
image system to detect the surface temperature of cherry fruit
and used microclimate information detection system to verify
the results (Osroosh and Peters, 2019). The thermal imaging
equipment was installed at a distance of 20 cm from the target
cherry. In the experiment, a simulated rainfall system was also
built to change the surface humidity of the cherry fruit. They also
developed a custom computer vision algorithm to recognize
cherry fruits in thermal images and RGB images, and completed
the extraction of fruit surface temperature. In the study, they
found that the surface temperature of cherry fruits was highly
correlated with the surface temperature of leaves (R2 > 0.89). The
ﬁnal experimental results show that it is feasible to detect the
surface temperature of cherry fruit using a system based on low-
resolution thermal RGB images. They also established the
normalized temperature index (NTDI and NRTI) to quantify
fruit surface humidity levels.
In a recently reported study, researchers developed two
models for predicting cherry surface humidity based on
thermal-RGB images and weather sensing systems (Ranjan
et al., 2022). The input data of the ﬁrst model is weather
sensor data, and the input data of the other model combines
the fruit surface temperature obtained from thermal image data.
An automatic custom image processing algorithm was
developed for fruit recognition and surface temperature
extraction, and the radiation calibration equation was used to
correct the temperature data. In the experiment, two varieties of
cherry fruits were used to complete the prediction offruit surface
humidity. The results showed that the correlation between the
measured and predicted values of humidity was R2 = 0.80 and R2
= 0.86, respectively. Compared with other imaging technologies,
thermal imaging technology can accurately provide the
temperature information of the measured target, which is an
advantage that other types of images do not have. Especially in
the exploration of temperature and fruit phenotype research
applications, has an irreplaceable role. However, the use of
thermal imaging equipment in outdoor environments is
strongly affected by light, which will have a certain impact on
its accuracy.
5.2 Phenotypic information acquisition
based on computed tomography
imaging technology and related research
Computer tomography (CT) has become one of the mature
non-destructive technologies for measuring the external
morphological characteristics and internal defect detection of
agricultural products (Arendse et al., 2018). The CT technology
ray includes X-ray, g-ray, ultrasound, etc. CT technology can
reﬂect the density change of the measured sample. The density
and absorption coefﬁcient of the measured sample will lead to
the attenuation of the ray during the penetration process. The
CT image can reﬂect the density change of the measured object
through the gray value of the pixel. The image is white,
indicating high density, and black indicates low density.
Kritzinger et al. used X-ray CT technology to detect the
occurrence of fruit core cracking during plum fruit development
(Kritzinger et al., 2017). They selected six plum varieties to
explore the causes of fruit core cracking, and randomly selected
measurement targets in the orchard for X-ray CT scanning. The
acquisition process of CT images developed from the inner
epidermis until the fruit core was completely hardened. The
results showed that due to the inﬂuence of temperature changes,
the growth of the inner epidermis of the fruit was affected, and
the incompletely hardened inner epidermis was affected by the
tension of the pulp, resulting in cracking. In their research, CT
technology accurately reﬂected the process of fruit core
hardening at different stages, thus accurately discovering the
occurrence of fruit core cracking.
In a study to determine whether 1-Methylcyclopropene
treatment of apricot fruit is beneﬁcial for fruit preservation, X-
ray CT technology was used to detect the occurrence of voids
inside the fruit (Karmoker et al., 2018). The obtained fruit CT
images are divided into high-density regions (−200 ~ +350HU)
and low-density regions (−900 ~ −200HU) to detect voids. The
changes of ethylene content in fruits treated with conventional
methods and 1-Methylcyclopropene during storage were
compared. The results showed that the apricot fruit pretreated
with 1-Methylcyclopropene effectively inhibited the production
of ethylene. From the CT image of the fruit, it can be seen that
the inside voids the treated apricot fruit is less than that of the
Liu et al.
10.3389/fpls.2022.1084847
Frontiers in Plant Science
frontiersin.org
17

apricot fruit preserved by the conventional method. These
results show that CT imaging technology has signiﬁcant
advantages in the detection of fruit internal.
5.3 Phenotypic information acquisition
based on laser-light backscattering
imaging technology and related research
Laser-light backscattering imaging (LLBI), as a low-cost
imaging technology, realizes the detection and analysis of targets
by using the principles of light absorption, scattering and image
processing in the visible and near-infrared electromagnetic
spectrum. When a beam of bright light is irradiated to the fruit
surface, most of the light will transmit to the fruit tissue, and the
other part will diffuse to the fruit surface (Adebayo et al., 2016).
Through the interaction between light and the object to be
measured, useful information about the structure and
composition of the object to be measured is provided for quality
analysis of fruits.
In 2016, a quality evaluation study using LLBI technology to
detect plum fruit during tree development and storage was reported
(Rezaei Kalaj et al., 2016). In this study, two different wavelengths of
light (532,785nm) were used to detect two different varieties of
plum. The full width at half maximum (FWHM) value was
obtained by radial backscattering proﬁle calculation, and this
value was tried to establish with fruit hardness, SSC, dry matter
content and normalized anthocyanin index. The results showed
that the decrease of FWHM532 was closely related to the increase of
anthocyanin content during fruit development. In addition, the
increase of FWHM785 was closely related to the decrease of ﬂesh
ﬁrmness during fruit development and storage. Their results show
that it is feasible to use the appropriate wavelength LLBI technique
to nondestructively detect the oxidation resistance and ﬁrmness of
plum fruit.
In a recent study, LLBI technique was used to predict the
quality characteristics and maturity of apricot fruit (Mozaffari
et al., 2022). Different from previous studies, the wavelength of
650 nm was used to obtain backscatter images of six ripening
stages of apricot fruit. They used Otsu and ﬁrst inﬂection point
techniques to segment the image and extract spatial domain
features from it. They established three prediction models
(ANN, PLSR, PCA-ANN) to predict the hardness and SSC of
apricot. The results show that the R2 based on ANN prediction
model is the highest and RMSE is the lowest. The results of
hardness and SSC were R2
CV = 0.974, RMSECV = 3.482 and R2
CV
= 0.963, RMSECV = 1.146, respectively.
6 Discussion
At present, the acquisition of fruit phenotypic information
based on image technology and its related research have made
remarkable progress under the efforts of researchers. In the
review of past research, our research based on image type is
divided into three types. Here, we discuss the related research of
three image types.
(1) Fruit phenotypic information acquisition and related
research based on RGB images: Firstly, from the perspective of
images, RGB images only contain image information compared
with the former two, and do not involve spectral data. In terms
of phenotypic information acquisition, only fruit color features,
texture features and geometric morphological parameters based
on image information can be extracted. However, the
convenience of RGB image acquisition is one of its most
signiﬁcant advantages.
The convenience of RGB image acquisition is one of its most
signiﬁcant advantages. However, with the popularity of various
imaging devices, the obtained RGB images have differences in
pixel resolution, image size, etc. These differences should be
solved in subsequent image processing. In addition, the
acquisition of RGB images should also take into account the
automatic preprocessing of the image during the acquisition of
the image by the smartphone, such as the adjustment of
exposure time and contrast, which will lead to the acquisition
of RGB images can not accurately reﬂect the color characteristics
of the target object.
(2) Fruit phenotypic information acquisition and related
research based on hyperspectral images: Compared with
multispectral images, hyperspectral images have become one
of the research hotspots with richer spectral data. The spectral
resolution of hyperspectral imaging equipment is nanoscale, and
the hyperspectral image obtained often contains hundreds of
thousands of wavelengths. Therefore, the rich spectral data
makes the hyperspectral image more comprehensive and
accurate in the process of obtaining fruit phenotypic
information, which makes it widely studied in the ﬁelds of
fruit maturity detection, fruit quality grading, disease damage
identiﬁcation quantiﬁcation and so on.
Removing redundant hyperspectral data is also one of the hot
issues for researchers in related research using hyperspectral
images. With the improvement of artiﬁcial intelligence theory,
there is also great potential in feature wavelength selection
algorithms, such as UVE, SVE, etc., which have achieved good
results. It should be mentioned that in most of the studies
reviewed, hyperspectral imaging equipment is used in a
laboratory environment, and some researchers have also used
portable spectral imaging equipment for research. However,
further improvement is needed to balance image quality and
cost issues.
(3) Fruit phenotypic information acquisition and related
research based on multispectral images: Fruit multispectral
images are used by researchers in fruit maturity, biochemical
parameter detection, disease damage detection and other ﬁelds by
virtue of the image information and spectral data contained in the
image. On the one hand, the band range of multispectral images
Liu et al.
10.3389/fpls.2022.1084847
Frontiers in Plant Science
frontiersin.org
18

often contains only a few to a dozen, and there is a defect that the
spectral data acquisition is not comprehensive, which limits the
researchers to obtain various phenotypic information of fruits
through spectral data and complete related applications. On the
other hand, the low number of spectral data in multispectral images
also reduces the complexity of data dimensionality reduction and
further processing in the later stage. From the perspective of multi-
spectral imaging equipment, the low cost and portability of multi-
spectral imaging equipment are its most signiﬁcant features.
Considering that the imaging environment is mostly outdoor,
sunlight will have a certain impact on multispectral images, so
multispectral imaging equipment should be further improved in
terms of resolution and anti-interference ability.
(4) In the review and summary of other imaging technology,
we mentioned thermal imaging technology, CT imaging
technology, LLBI technology. The images obtained by these
imaging techniques can provide data in different dimensions
for the acquisition of fruit phenotypic information and
subsequent research applications. The acquisition of fruit
surface temperature information by thermal imaging
technology is irreplaceable in the study of avoiding fruit
cracking due to abnormal surface temperature. CT imaging
technology and LLBI technology can accurately reﬂect the
internal quality of fruits by means of X-ray and laser beam
penetration measurement in the detection of internal phenotypic
information of fruits.
Finally, with the development of image processing technology
and related target recognition and segmentation algorithm, the
acquisition offruit phenotype information based on RGB image and
related research is still one of the important areas. Researchers have
used a variety of neural network algorithms to complete research on
maturity, fruit quality, disease damage and other related research
based on RGB images. In this review article, we do not deeply
explore the related algorithms used by researchers, but it can be
concluded that with the continuous improvement of related
algorithms, deep learning shows signiﬁcant advantages over
traditional algorithms.
7 Conclusions
We tried to review the acquisition of fruit phenotypic
information and related research based on image technology.
Image types mainly include multispectral, hyperspectral and RGB
images. Then, according to the research purpose, the research based
on each type of image is introduced, including the imaging
equipment parameters, image analysis technology and research
results, etc. When the actual design is based on different types of
images to complete the application of fruit detection, due to the
differences, it may be necessary to readjust the various parameters of
the image analysis algorithm and combine various technologies. In
addition, the speciﬁcity of the imaging equipment and imaging
environment used in the references leads to its popularization to be
improved. In some researches based on natural light and outdoor
environments, the preprocessing algorithms proposed for other
interference light sources are worthy of reference, which can
signiﬁcantly reduce the impact of noise in target fruit recognition
and detection, thereby improving the accuracy of research. In order
to further promote the application of image-based fruit detection
technology in actual production, it is necessary to further improve
the portability of imaging equipment and coordinate the cost
problem. Moreover, it can be seen from the environmental
speciﬁcity of previous studies that the existing analysis algorithms
have poor universality. Therefore, the development of new
algorithms to achieve high efﬁciency, high accuracy and strong
adaptability is of great signiﬁcance for the promotion of this
technology in practical applications.
Data availability statement
The original contributions presented in the study are
included in the article/Supplementary material. Further
inquiries can be directed to the corresponding author.
Author contributions
XL collected and analyzed references. XL and NL prepared
the review and wrote the manuscript; YH and XJL offered much
help in the process of revision. ZR provided ﬁnancial supports.
All authors read and approved the ﬁnal manuscript.
Funding
The authors are grateful for the ﬁnancial support from the
Hebei Provincial Department of Science and Technology (Grant
number 22327203D).
Conﬂict of interest
The authors declare that the research was conducted in the
absence of any commercial or ﬁnancial relationships that could
be construed as a potential conﬂict of interest.
Publisher’s note
All claims expressed in this article are solely those of the
authors and do not necessarily represent those of their afﬁliated
organizations, or those of the publisher, the editors and the
reviewers. Any product that may be evaluated in this article, or
claim that may be made by its manufacturer, is not guaranteed
or endorsed by the publisher.
Liu et al.
10.3389/fpls.2022.1084847
Frontiers in Plant Science
frontiersin.org
19

References
Adebayo, S. E., Hashim, N., Abdan, K., and Hanaﬁ, M. (2016). Application and
potential of backscattering imaging techniques in agricultural and food processing -
a review. J. Food Eng. 169, 155–164. doi: 10.1016/j.jfoodeng.2015.08.006
Ahmad, J., Jan, B., Farman, H., Ahmad, W., and Ullah, A. (2020). Disease
detection in plum using convolutional neural network under true ﬁeld conditions.
Sensors (Switzerland) 20, 1–18. doi: 10.3390/s20195569
Ahmad, J., Muhammad, K., Ahmad, I., Ahmad, W., Smith, M. L., Smith, L. N.,
et al. (2018a). Visual features based boosted classiﬁcation of weeds for real-time
selective herbicide sprayer systems. Comput. Ind. 98, 23–33. doi: 10.1016/
j.compind.2018.02.005
Ahmad, J., Muhammad, K., Lee, M. Y., and Baik, S. W. (2017). Endoscopic
image classiﬁcation and retrieval using clustered convolutional features. J. Med.
Syst. 41, 196–208. doi: 10.1007/s10916-017-0836-y
Ahmad, J., Muhammad, K., Lloret, J., and Baik, S. W. (2018b). Efﬁcient
conversion of deep features to compact binary codes using Fourier
decomposition for multimedia big data. IEEE Trans. Industr Inform 14, 3205–
3215. doi: 10.1109/TII.2018.2800163
Alfatni, M. S. M., Shariff, A. R. M., Abdullah, M. Z., Marhaban, M. H. B., and
Saaed, O. M. B. (2013). The application of internal grading system technologies for
agricultural products - review. J. Food Eng. 116, 703–725. doi: 10.1016/
j.jfoodeng.2013.01.001
Ali, M. M., Bachik, N. A., Muhadi, N.‘A, Tuan Yusof, T. N., and Gomes, C.
(2019). Non-destructive techniques of detecting plant diseases: A review. Physiol.
Mol. Plant Pathol. 108, 1–12. doi: 10.1016/j.pmpp.2019.101426
Alosaimi, W., Alyami, H., and Uddin, M. I. (2021). PeachNet: Peach diseases
detection for automatic harvesting. Computers Materials Continua 67, 1665–1677.
doi: 10.32604/cmc.2021.014950
Arendse, E., Fawole, O. A., Magwaza, L. S., and Opara, U. L. (2018). Non-
destructive prediction of internal and external quality attributes of fruit with thick
rind: A review. J. Food Eng. 217, 11–23. doi: 10.1016/j.jfoodeng.2017.08.009
Blasco, J., Munera, S., Aleixos, N., Cubero, S., and Molto, E. (2017). “Machine
vision-based measurement systems for fruit and vegetable quality control in
postharvest.” Advances in Biochemical Engineering-Biotechnology 161, 71–91.
doi: 10.1007/10_2016_51
Chattaraj, S., Chakraborty, D., Garg, R. N., Singh, G. P., Gupta, V. K., Singh, S.,
et al. (2013). Hyperspectral remote sensing for growth-stage-speciﬁc water use in
wheat. Field Crops Res. 144, 179–191. doi: 10.1016/j.fcr.2012.12.009
Choudhury, S. D., Samal, A., and Awada, T. (2019). Leveraging image analysis
for high-throughput plant phenotyping. Front. Plant Sci. 10. doi: 10.3389/
fpls.2019.00508
Crocombe, R. A. (2018). Portable spectroscopy. Appl. Spectrosc 72, 1701–1751.
doi: 10.1177/0003702818809719
Dhondt, S., Wuyts, N., and Inzé, D. (2013). Cell to whole-plant phenotyping:
The best is yet to come. Trends Plant Sci. 18, 428–439. doi: 10.1016/
j.tplants.2013.04.008
Du, Z., Zeng, X., Li, X., Ding, X., Cao, J., and Jiang, W. (2020). Recent advances
in imaging techniques for bruise detection in fruits and vegetables. Trends Food Sci.
Technol. 99, 133–141. doi: 10.1016/j.tifs.2020.02.024
Esehaghbeygi, A., Ardforoushan, M., Monajemi, S. A. H., and Masoumi, A. A.
(2010). Digital image processing for quality ranking of saffron peach. Int.
Agrophysics 24, 115–120.
Fernández-Novales, J., Garde-Cerdán, T., Tardáguila, J., Gutiérrez-Gamboa, G.,
Pérez-Álvarez, E. P., and Diago, M. P. (2019). Assessment of amino acids and total
soluble solids in intact grape berries using contactless vis and NIR spectroscopy
during ripening. Talanta 199, 244–253. doi: 10.1016/j.talanta.2019.02.037
Fu, L., Gao, F., Wu, J., Li, R., Karkee, M., and Zhang, Q. (2020). Application of
consumer RGB-d cameras for fruit detection and localization in ﬁeld: A critical
review. Comput. Electron Agric. 177. doi: 10.1016/j.compag.2020.105687
Gómez-Sanchis, J., Moltó, E., Camps-Valls, G., Gómez-Chova, L., Aleixos, N.,
and Blasco, J. (2008). Automatic correction of the effects of the light source on
spherical objects. an application to the analysis of hyperspectral images of citrus
fruits. J. Food Eng. 85, 191–200. doi: 10.1016/j.jfoodeng.2007.06.036
Guyer, D., and Yang, X. (2000). Use of genetic artiﬁcial neural networks and
spectral imaging for defect detection on cherries. Comput Electron Agric 29, 179–
194. doi: 10.1016/S0168-1699(00)00146-0.
Herrero-Langreo, A., Fernández-Ahumada, E., Roger, J. M., Palagós, B., and
Lleó, L. (2012). Combination of optical and non-destructive mechanical techniques
for the measurement of maturity in peach. J. Food Eng. 108, 150–157. doi: 10.1016/
j.jfoodeng.2011.07.004
Herrero-Langreo, A., Lunadei, L., Lleó, L., Diezma, B., and Ruiz-Altisent, M.
(2011). Multispectral vision for monitoring peach ripeness. J. Food Sci. 76, 178–187.
doi: 10.1111/j.1750-3841.2010.02000.x
Huang, H., Liu, L., and Ngadi, M. O. (2014). Recent developments in
hyperspectral imaging for assessment of food quality and safety. Sensors
(Switzerland) 14, 7248–7276. doi: 10.3390/s140407248
Huang, S., Zhou, G., He, M., Chen, A., Zhang, W., and Hu, Y. (2020). Detection
of peach disease image based on asymptotic non-local means and PCNN-IPELM.
IEEE Access 8, 136421–136433. doi: 10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3011685
Karmoker, P., Obatake, W., Tanaka, F., and Tanaka, F. (2018). Quality
evaluation of 1-methylcyclopropene treated Japanese apricot using x-ray
computed tomography. Food Sci. Technol. Res. 24, 377–384. doi: 10.3136/
fstr.24.377
Karydas, C., Iatrou, M., Kouretas, D., Patouna, A., Iatrou, G., Lazos, N., et al.
(2020). Prediction of antioxidant activity of cherry fruits from UAS multispectral
imagery using machine learning. Antioxidants 9. doi: 10.3390/antiox9020156
Kaur, H., Sawhney, B. K., and Jawandha, S. K. (2018). Evaluation of plum fruit
maturity by image processing techniques. J. Food Sci. Technol. 55, 3008–3015.
doi: 10.1007/s13197-018-3220-0
Kemps, B., Leon, L., Best, S., de Baerdemaeker, J., and de Ketelaere, B. (2010).
Assessment of the quality parameters in grapes using VIS/NIR spectroscopy.
Biosyst. Eng. 105, 507–513. doi: 10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2010.02.002
Khojastehnazhand, M., Mohammadi, V., and Minaei, S. (2019). Maturity
detection and volume estimation of apricot using image processing technique.
Sci. Hortic. 251, 247–251. doi: 10.1016/j.scienta.2019.03.033
Kopjar, M., Alilović, D., Požrl, T., Piližota, V., and Pichler, A. (2017). Phenolics
content and antioxidant activity of sour cherry extracts with sugar addition. Acta
Aliment 46, 501–507. doi: 10.1556/066.2017.46.4.13.
Kritzinger, I., Lötze, E., and Jooste, M. (2017). Stone hardening and broken
stones in Japanese plums (Prunus salicina lindl.) evaluated by means of computed
tomography scans. Sci. Hortic. 221, 1–9. doi: 10.1016/j.scienta.2017.04.008
Lee, A., Kim, S. Y., Hong, S. J., Han, Y., Choi, Y., Kim, M., et al. (2019).
Phenotypic analysis of fruit crops water stress using infrared thermal imaging. J.
Biosyst. Eng. 44, 87–94. doi: 10.1007/s42853-019-00020-2
Li, J., Chen, L., and Huang, W. (2018c). Detection of early bruises on peaches
(Amygdalus persica l.) using hyperspectral imaging coupled with improved
watershed segmentation algorithm. Postharvest Biol. Technol. 135, 104–113.
doi: 10.1016/j.postharvbio.2017.09.007
Li, J., Chen, L., Huang, W., Wang, Q., Zhang, B., Tian, X., et al. (2016).
Multispectral detection of skin defects of bi-colored peaches based on vis-NIR
hyperspectral imaging. Postharvest Biol. Technol. 112, 121–133. doi: 10.1016/
j.postharvbio.2015.10.007
Li, B., Cobo-Medina, M., Lecourt, J., Harrison, N. B., Harrison, R. J., and Cross, J.
v. (2018a). Application of hyperspectral imaging for nondestructive measurement
of plum quality attributes. Postharvest Biol. Technol. 141, 8–15. doi: 10.1016/
j.postharvbio.2018.03.008
Li, J., Fan, S., and Huang, W. (2018d). Assessment of multiregion local models
for detection of SSC of whole peach (Amygdalus persica l.) by combining both
hyperspectral imaging and wavelength optimization methods. J. Food Process Eng.
41. doi: 10.1111/jfpe.12914
Li, X., Liu, Y., Jiang, X., and Wang, G. (2021). Supervised classiﬁcation of slightly
bruised peaches with respect to the time after bruising by using hyperspectral imaging
technology. Infrared Phys. Technol. 113. doi: 10.1016/j.infrared.2020.103557
Li, X., Wei, Y., Xu, J., Feng, X., Wu, F., Zhou, R., et al. (2018e). SSC And pH for
sweet assessment and maturity classiﬁcation of harvested cherry fruit based on NIR
hyperspectral imaging technology. Postharvest Biol. Technol. 143, 112–118.
doi: 10.1016/j.postharvbio.2018.05.003
Li, C., Zhu, X., Wei, Y., Cao, S., Guo, X., Yu, X., et al. (2018b). Estimating apple
tree canopy chlorophyll content based on sentinel-2A remote sensing imaging. Sci.
Rep. 8. doi: 10.1038/s41598-018-21963-0
Lleó, L., Barreiro, P., Ruiz-Altisent, M., and Herrero, A. (2009). Multispectral
images of peach related to ﬁrmness and maturity at harvest. J. Food Eng. 93, 229–
235. doi: 10.1016/j.jfoodeng.2009.01.028
Lleó, L., Roger, J. M., Herrero-Langreo, A., Diezma-Iglesias, B., and Barreiro, P.
(2011). Comparison of multispectral indexes extracted from hyperspectral images
for the assessment of fruit ripening. J. Food Eng. 104, 612–620. doi: 10.1016/
j.jfoodeng.2011.01.028
Lu, R., and Peng, Y. (2006). Hyperspectral scattering for assessing peach fruit
ﬁrmness. Biosyst. Eng. 93, 161–171. doi: 10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2005.11.004
Liu et al.
10.3389/fpls.2022.1084847
Frontiers in Plant Science
frontiersin.org
20

Mahlein, A. K. (2016). Plant disease detection by imaging sensors – parallels and
speciﬁc demands for precision agriculture and plant phenotyping. Plant Dis. 100,
241–254. doi: 10.1094/PDIS-03-15-0340-FE
Miragaia, R., Chávez, F., Dı́az, J., Vivas, A., Prieto, M. H., and Moñino, M. J.
(2021). Plum ripeness analysis in real environments using deep learning with
convolutional neural networks. Agronomy 11, 2353. doi: 10.3390/
agronomy11112353
Momeny, M., Jahanbakhshi, A., Jafarnezhad, K., and Zhang, Y. D. (2020).
Accurate classiﬁcation of cherry fruit using deep CNN based on hybrid pooling
approach. Postharvest Biol. Technol. 166. doi: 10.1016/j.postharvbio.2020.111204
Mozaffari, M., Sadeghi, S., and Aseﬁ, N. (2022). Prediction of the quality
properties and maturity of apricot by laser light backscattering imaging.
Postharvest Biol. Technol. 186. doi: 10.1016/j.postharvbio.2022.111842
Muhua, L., Peng, F., and Renfa, C. (2007). Non-destructive estimation peach
SSC and ﬁrmness by mutispectral reﬂectance imaging. New Z. J. Agric. Res. 50,
601–608. doi: 10.1080/00288230709510328
Munera, S., Amigo, J. M., Aleixos, N., Talens, P., Cubero, S., and Blasco, J.
(2018). Potential of VIS-NIR hyperspectral imaging and chemometric methods to
identify similar cultivars of nectarine. Food Control 86, 1–10. doi: 10.1016/
j.foodcont.2017.10.037
Munera, S., Amigo, J. M., Blasco, J., Cubero, S., Talens, P., and Aleixos, N.
(2017). Ripeness monitoring of two cultivars of nectarine using VIS-NIR
hyperspectral reﬂectance imaging. J. Food Eng. 214, 29–39. doi: 10.1016/
j.jfoodeng.2017.06.031
Osroosh, Y., and Peters, R. T. (2019). Detecting fruit surface wetness using a
custom-built low-resolution thermal-RGB imager. Comput. Electron Agric. 157,
509–517. doi: 10.1016/j.compag.2019.01.023
Pan, L., Zhang, Q., Zhang, W., Sun, Y., Hu, P., and Tu, K. (2016). Detection of
cold injury in peaches by hyperspectral reﬂectance imaging and artiﬁcial neural
network. Food Chem. 192, 134–141. doi: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2015.06.106
Pissard, A., Fernández Pierna, J. A., Baeten, V., Sinnaeve, G., Lognay, G.,
Mouteau, A., et al. (2013). Non-destructive measurement of vitamin c, total
polyphenol and sugar content in apples using near-infrared spectroscopy. J. Sci.
Food Agric. 93, 238–244. doi: 10.1002/jsfa.5779
Pu, Y. Y., Feng, Y. Z., and Sun, D. W. (2015). Recent progress of hyperspectral
imaging on quality and safety inspection of fruits and vegetables: A review. Compr.
Rev. Food Sci. Food Saf. 14, 176–188. doi: 10.1111/1541-4337.12123
Pullanagari, R. R., and Li, M. (2020). Uncertainty assessment for ﬁrmness and
total soluble solids of sweet cherries using hyperspectral imaging and multivariate
statistics. J. Food Eng. 289, 110177.1–110177.11. doi: 10.1016/
j.jfoodeng.2020.110177
Qin, J., Chao, K., Kim, M. S., Lu, R., and Burks, T. F. (2013). Hyperspectral and
multispectral imaging for evaluating food safety and quality. J. Food Eng. 118, 157–
171. doi: 10.1016/j.jfoodeng.2013.04.001
Ranjan, R., Sinha, R., Khot, L. R., and Whiting, M. (2022). Thermal-RGB
imagery and in-ﬁeld weather sensing derived sweet cherry wetness prediction
model. Sci. Hortic. 294. doi: 10.1016/j.scienta.2021.110782
Rezaei Kalaj, Y., Mollazade, K., Herppich, W., Regen, C., and Geyer, M. (2016).
Changes of backscattering imaging parameter during plum fruit development on
the tree and during storage. Sci. Hortic. 202, 63–69. doi: 10.1016/
j.scienta.2016.02.029
Ropelewska, E., Popińska, W., Sabanci, K., and Aslan, M. F. (2021). Cultivar
identiﬁcation of sweet cherries based on texture parameters determined using image
analysis. J. Food Process Eng. 44, e13724.1–e13724.10. doi: 10.1111/jfpe.13724
Ropelewska, E., and Rutkowski, K. P. (2021). Differentiation of peach cultivars
by image analysis based on the skin, ﬂesh, stone and seed textures. Eur. Food Res.
Technol. 247, 2371–2377. doi: 10.1007/s00217-021-03797-9
Ruiz-Altisent, M., Lleó, L., and Riquelme, F. (2006). Instrumental quality
assessment of peaches: Fusion of optical and mechanical parameters. J. Food
Eng. 74, 490–499. doi: 10.1016/j.jfoodeng.2005.01.048
Saranwong, S., Sornsrivichai, J., and Kawano, S. (2004). Prediction of ripe-stage
eating quality of mango fruit from its harvest quality measured nondestructively by
near infrared spectroscopy. Postharvest Biol. Technol. 31, 137–145. doi: 10.1016/
j.postharvbio.2003.08.007
Shakoor, N., Lee, S., and Mockler, T. C. (2017). High throughput phenotyping to
accelerate crop breeding and monitoring of diseases in the ﬁeld. Curr. Opin. Plant
Biol. 38, 184–192. doi: 10.1016/j.pbi.2017.05.006
Shao, Y., Xuan, G., Hu, Z., Gao, Z., and Liu, L. (2019). Determination of the
bruise degree for cherry using vis-NIR reﬂection spectroscopy coupled with
multivariate analysis. PLoS One 14, 1–13. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0222633
Shen, L., Wang, H., Liu, Y., Liu, Y., Zhang, X., and Fei, Y. (2020). Prediction of
soluble solids content in green plum by using a sparse autoencoder. Appl. Sci. 10.
doi: 10.3390/app10113769
Sims, D. A., and Gamon, J. A. (2002). Relationships between leaf pigment content and
spectral reﬂectance across a wide range of species, leaf structures and developmental
stages. Remote Sens Environ. 81, 337–354. doi: 10.1016/S0034-4257(02)00010-X
Sohaib Ali Shah, S., Zeb, A., Qureshi, W. S., Arslan, M., Ullah Malik, A., Alasmary,
W., et al. (2020). Towards fruit maturity estimation using NIR spectroscopy. Infrared
Phys. Technol. 111, 103479. doi: 10.1016/j.infrared.2020.103479
Sun, Y., Lu, R., Lu, Y., Tu, K., and Pan, L. (2019). Detection of early decay in
peaches by structured-illumination reﬂectance imaging. Postharvest Biol. Technol.
151, 68–78. doi: 10.1016/j.postharvbio.2019.01.011
Sun, Y., Wang, Y., Xiao, H., Gu, X., Pan, L., and Tu, K. (2017). Hyperspectral
imaging detection of decayed honey peaches based on their chlorophyll content.
Food Chem. 235, 194–202. doi: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2017.05.064
Sun, Y., Xiao, H., Tu, S., Sun, K., Pan, L., and Tu, K. (2018). Detecting decayed
peach using a rotating hyperspectral imaging testbed. LWT 87, 326–332.
doi: 10.1016/j.lwt.2017.08.086
Su, W.-H., and Sun, D.-W. (2018). Multispectral imaging for plant food quality
analysis and visualization. Compr. Rev. Food Sci. Food Saf. 17, 220–239.
doi: 10.1111/1541-4337.12317
Taghadomi-Saberi, S., Omid, M., Emam-Djomeh, Z., and Ahmadi, H. (2014).
Evaluating the potential of artiﬁcial neural network and neuro-fuzzy techniques for
estimating antioxidant activity and anthocyanin content of sweet cherry during ripening
by using image processing. J. Sci. Food Agric. 94, 95–101. doi: 10.1002/jsfa.6202
Taghadomi-Saberi, S., Omid, M., Emam-Djomeh, Z., and Faraji-Mahyari, K.
(2015). Determination of cherry color parameters during ripening by artiﬁcial
neural network assisted image processing technique. Journal of Agricultural Science
and Technology 17, 589–600. doi: 10.13140/2.1.2049.6006.
Tang, J., Deng, C., and Huang, G. (2016). Extreme learning machine for
multilayer perceptron. IEEE Trans. Neural Netw. Learn Syst. 27, 809–821.
doi: 10.1109/TNNLS.2015.2424995
Toivonen, P. M. A., Batista, A., and Lannard, B. (2017). Development of a
predictive model for ‘lapins’ sweet cherry dry matter content using a visible/near-
infrared spectrometer and its potential application to other cultivars. Can. J. Plant
Sci. 97, 1030–1035. doi: 10.1139/cjps-2017-0013
Villacrés, J. F., and Cheein, F. A. (2020). Detection and characterization of cherries: A
deep learning usability case study in Chile. Agronomy 10. doi: 10.3390/
agronomy10060835
Wang, H., Peng, J., Xie, C., Bao, Y., and He, Y. (2015). Fruit quality evaluation
using spectroscopy technology: A review. Sensors (Switzerland) 15, 11889–11927.
doi: 10.3390/s150511889
Wang, Q., Wang, H., Xie, L., and Zhang, Q. (2012). Outdoor color rating of
sweet cherries using computer vision. Comput. Electron Agric. 87, 113–120.
doi: 10.1016/j.compag.2012.05.010
Xiaobo, Z., Jiewen, Z., Povey, M. J. W., Holmes, M., and Hanpin, M. (2010).
Variables selection methods in near-infrared spectroscopy. Anal. Chim. Acta 667,
14–32. doi: 10.1016/j.aca.2010.03.048
Xuan, G., Gao, C., and Shao, Y. (2022). Spectral and image analysis of
hyperspectral data for internal and external quality assessment of peach fruit.
Spectrochim Acta A Mol. Biomol Spectrosc 272. doi: 10.1016/j.saa.2022.121016
Yang, B., Gao, Y., Yan, Q., Qi, L., Zhu, Y., and Wang, B. (2020). Estimation
method of soluble solid content in peach based on deep features of hyperspectral
imagery. Sensors (Switzerland) 20, 1–12. doi: 10.3390/s20185021
Yao, N., Ni, F., Wang, Z., Luo, J., Sung, W. K., Luo, C., et al. (2021).
L2MXception: An improved xception network for classiﬁcation of peach
diseases. Plant Methods 17. doi: 10.1186/s13007-021-00736-3
Ye, X., Sakai, K., Garciano, L. O., Asada, S. I., and Sasao, A. (2006). Estimation of
citrus yield from airborne hyperspectral images using a neural network model. Ecol.
Modell 198, 426–432. doi: 10.1016/j.ecolmodel.2006.06.001
Yun, Y-H, Li, H-D, Leslie, L. R., Fan, W., Wang, J. J., Cao, D. S., et al. (2013). An
efﬁcient method of wavelength interval selection based on random frog for
multivariate spectral calibration. Spectrochim Acta A Mol. Biomol Spectrosc 111,
31–36. doi: 10.1016/j.saa.2013.03.083
Zhang, B., et al. (2014). Principles, developments and applications of computer
vision for external quality inspection of fruits and vegetables: A review. Food
Research International 62, p. 326–343.
Zhu, N., Huang, W., Wu, D., Chen, K., and He, Y. (2017). Quantitative visualization
of pectin distribution maps of peach fruits. Sci. Rep. 7. doi: 10.1038/s41598-017-09817-7
Zhu, N., Lin, M., Nie, Y., Wu, D., and Chen, K. (2016). Study on the quantitative
measurement of ﬁrmness distribution maps at the pixel level inside peach pulp.
Comput. Electron Agric. 130, 48–56. doi: 10.1016/j.compag.2016.09.018
Ziosi, V., Noferini, M., Fiori, G., Tadiello, A., Trainotti, L., Casadoro, G., et al.
(2008). A new index based on vis spectroscopy to characterize the progression of
ripening in peach fruit. Postharvest Biol. Technol. 49, 319–329. doi: 10.1016/
j.postharvbio.2008.01.017
Liu et al.
10.3389/fpls.2022.1084847
Frontiers in Plant Science
frontiersin.org
21
