IEEE ROBOTICS AND AUTOMATION LETTERS. PREPRINT VERSION. ACCEPTED JANUARY, 2019
1
Monocular Camera Based Fruit Counting and
Mapping with Semantic Data Association
Xu Liu, Steven W. Chen, Chenhao Liu, Shreyas S. Shivakumar, Jnaneshwar Das,
Camillo J. Taylor, James Underwood, Vijay Kumar
c⃝2019 IEEE. Personal use of this material is permitted. Permission from IEEE must be obtained for all other uses,
in any current or future media, including reprinting/republishing this material for advertising or promotional purposes, creating new
collective works, for resale or redistribution to servers or lists, or reuse of any copyrighted component of this work in other works.
Abstract—We present a cheap, lightweight, and fast fruit
counting pipeline. Our pipeline relies only on a monocular
camera, and achieves counting performance comparable to a
state-of-the-art fruit counting system that utilizes an expensive
sensor
suite
including
a
monocular
camera,
LiDAR
and
GPS/INS on a mango dataset. Our pipeline begins with a fruit
and tree trunk detection component that uses state-of-the-art
convolutional neural networks (CNNs). It then tracks fruits
and tree trunks across images, with a Kalman Filter fusing
measurements from the CNN detectors and an optical ﬂow
estimator. Finally, fruit count and map are estimated by an
efﬁcient fruit-as-feature semantic structure from motion (SfM)
algorithm which converts 2D tracks of fruits and trunks into
3D landmarks, and uses these landmarks to identify double
counting scenarios. There are many beneﬁts of developing such
a low cost and lightweight fruit counting system, including
applicability
to
agriculture
in
developing
countries,
where
monetary constraints or unstructured environments necessitate
cheaper hardware solutions.
Index Terms—Robotics in agriculture and forestry, deep learn-
ing in robotics and automation, visual tracking, mapping, object
detection, segmentation and categorization.
I. INTRODUCTION
A
CCURATELY estimating fruit count is important for
growers to optimize yield and make decisions for har-
vest scheduling, labor allocation, and storage. Robotic fruit
counting systems typically utilize a variety of sensors such as
stereo cameras, depth sensors, LiDAR, and global positioning
inertial navigation systems (GPS/INS). These systems have
demonstrated great success in counting a variety of fruits
including mangoes, oranges, and apples [1], [2], [3]. However,
Manuscript received September 10, 2018; Revised December 9, 2018;
Accepted January 23, 2019.
This paper was recommended for publication by Editor Youngjin Choi
upon evaluation of the Associate Editor and the Reviewers’ comments. This
work was supported by ARL DCIST CRA grant W911NF-17-2-0181, ARO
grant W911NF-13-1-0350, USDA grant 2015-67021-23857, NSF grant IIS-
1138847, Qualcomm Research, C-BRIC (a Semiconductor Research Corpo-
ration Joint University Microelectronics Program cosponsored by DARPA),
and the Australian Centre for Field Robotics (ACFR) at The University of
Sydney, with thanks to Simpsons Farms.
X. Liu,
S. W. Chen,
C. Liu,
S. S. Shivakumar,
C. J. Taylor,
and
V. Kumar are with GRASP Lab, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
PA 19104, USA, {liuxu, chenste, liuch13, sshreyas,
cjtaylor, kumar}@seas.upenn.edu.
J. Das is with the School of Earth and Space Exploration, Arizona State
University, Tempe, AZ 85281, USA, jnaneshwar.das@asu.edu.
J.
Underwood
is
with
the
Australian
Centre
for
Field
Robotics,
The
University
of
Sydney,
2006,
Australia,
j.underwood
@acfr.usyd.edu.au.
Digital Object Identiﬁer (DOI): see top of this page.
Figure 1: Detection and tracking of mangoes across images. The
Faster R-CNN is used to detect fruits. Green boxes and blue boxes
respectively represent stably tracked fruits and newly detected fruits.
Every dotted white line represents the trajectory of a fruit. Each fruit
will ﬁnally be associated with a 3D landmark in order to obtain the
total count and the map of fruits.
while the use of a variety of high-end sensors results in good
counting accuracy, they come at high monetary, weight, and
size costs. For example, a sensor suite equipped with cameras,
LiDAR, and a computer can add up to about $25, 000, and
weigh upwards of a few kilograms [1].
These high monetary, weight, and size costs directly limit
the applicability of these systems. Calibration of sensors poses
additional challenges, when multiple sensing modalities such
as cameras and LiDAR are used. A key motivation of this
work is to develop a fruit counting system for cashew growers
in Mozambique. The lack of infrastructure and technical
knowledge, and tight cost constraints make it infeasible to
use a complex sensor suite in these agriculture environments.
The growth of smartphone technology have made high-quality
monocular cameras readily available and accessible. These
factors motivate the development of a high-performance fruit
counting pipeline that uses only a monocular camera, and
can potentially run on smartphones. By doing so, we would
like to shift the burden of performance from sophisticated
hardware, to sophisticated algorithms on cheap and ubiquitous
commodity hardware.
The main contributions of our work are: (1) a monocular
fruit counting system, which uses semantic SfM and improves
upon our previous work [4] by directly reconstructing fruit
landmarks as opposed to geometric features; and (2) a thor-
ough comparison on a mango dataset to a fruit counting
system that uses additional sensors including a monocular
camera, LiDAR and GPS/INS [3], demonstrating that our
counting system can achieve comparable performance using
only the monocular camera data. Fig. 1 depicts the detection
and tracking performance of our algorithm. A video of our
arXiv:1811.01417v4  [cs.RO]  18 Mar 2019

2
IEEE ROBOTICS AND AUTOMATION LETTERS. PREPRINT VERSION. ACCEPTED JANUARY, 2019
algorithm can be found at: https://label.ag/ral19.mp4.
II. RELATED WORK
Fruit detection, segmentation and counting in a single image
has seen a revolution from hand-crafted computer vision tech-
niques to data-driven techniques. Traditional hand-engineered
techniques for this task is usually based on a combination of
shape detection and color segmentation. Dorj et al. develop a
watershed segmentation based method to detect citrus in HSV
space [5]. Ramos et al. use contour analysis on superpixel
over-segmentation result to ﬁt ellipses for counting coffee
fruits on branches [6]. Roy et al. develop a two-step apple
counting method which ﬁrst uses RGB-based oversegmenta-
tion for fruit area proposal, then estimates fruit count by ﬁtting
a clustering model with different center numbers [7]. Such
hand-crafted features usually have difﬁculty generalizing to
different datasets where illumination or occlusion level may
be different.
Consequently, data-driven methods have become the state
of the art, primarily as a result of advances in deep learning
methods. Bargoti et.al use Faster Region based Convolutional
Neural Networks (Faster R-CNN) in detection of mangoes, al-
monds and apples, while also providing a standardized dataset
for evaluation of counting algorithms [2], [8]. Chen et al. use
the Fully Convolutional Network (FCN) to segment the image
into candidate regions and CNN to count the fruit within each
region [9]. Rahnemoonfar and Sheppard train an Inception
style architecture to directly count the number of tomatoes
in an image, demonstrating that in some scenarios these deep
networks can even be trained using synthetic data [10]. Barth
et al. also generate synthetic data to train deep neural networks
to segment pepper images [11].
Our work differs from these previous works by expanding
the counting problem from a single image to image sequences.
Also, we limit ourselves to using only a monocular camera,
which presents additional challenges over previous works
including our chosen benchmark algorithm in [3], since depth
and pose information are not directly available from a LiDAR
or GPS/INS sensors.
Compared with counting fruits in a single image, in a
structure orchard, counting fruits in two image sequences
recorded from two opposite sides of every tree row is a more
complete and accurate yield estimation approach, since most
fruits are only visible from a certain viewpoint. However,
this approach is more challenging because it introduces three
major double counting problems: (1) double counting the same
fruit detected in consecutive images; (2) double counting the
same fruit visible from both sides of the tree; and (3) double
counting fruits that are initially tracked, then lost, and then
detected and tracked again in a later image, which is also
called double tracking.
To overcome those challenges, existing approaches use
some combinations of SfM, Hungarian algorithm, optical ﬂow,
and Kalman ﬁlters to provide the corresponding assignments
of fruits across subsequent images. Wang et al. use stereo cam-
eras to count red and green apples by taking images at night in
order to control the illumination to exploit specular reﬂection
features [12]. Das et al. use a Support Vector Machine (SVM)
to detect fruits, and use optical ﬂow to associate the fruits
in between subsequent images [1]. Halstead et al. use a 2D
tracking algorithm to track and reﬁne Faster R-CNN detections
of sweet peppers for counting and crop quantity evaluation in
an indoor environment [13]. Roy et al. develop a four-step
3D reconstruction method which ﬁrst roughly aligns 3D point
cloud two-side view of fruit tree row, then generates semantic
representation with deep learning-based trunk segmentations
and further reﬁnes two-view alignment with this data. At back-
end it uses the 3-D point cloud and pre-detected fruits from [7]
to give both visual count and tree height and size estimation
for harvest count estimation [14].
Our previous monocular camera based fruit counting ap-
proach ﬁrst maintains fruit tracks in the 2D image plane across
frames. Separately, to reject outlier fruits, a computationally
expensive SfM reconstruction is performed using SIFT fea-
tures [4]. The major improvement from this work lies in: (1) a
fruit-as-feature semantic SfM is proposed, which signiﬁcantly
reduces the computation and outputs a meaningful map of
fruit landmarks; (2) these fruit landmarks are then used to
identify double tracked fruits, and eliminate frame-to-frame
tracking noise caused by illumination shifts; (3) a new double
counting problem introduced by collecting two separate image
sequences from two opposite sides of the tree row is solved,
which makes this pipeline applicable to a wider range of fruit
counting tasks; (4) a more consistent and robust Kalman Filter
scheme for frame-to-frame tracking is designed; and (5) a
thorough comparison against both actual ﬁeld counts and the
counts estimated by a benchmark algorithm using much more
expensive sensors is conducted.
III. FRUIT DETECTION WITH DEEP LEARNING
Our fruit detection component takes in sequence images,
and outputs bounding boxes of fruits in each image as shown
in Fig.1. The fruit detection is based on Faster R-CNN [15].
The Faster R-CNN framework consists of two modules. The
ﬁrst module is a region proposal network which detects regions
of interest. The second module is a classiﬁcation module,
which classiﬁes individual regions and regresses the bounding
box for every fruit simultaneously. Finally, probability thresh-
old is applied and non-maximum suppression is conducted to
remove duplicate detections.
We follow the methodology by Bargoti et al. for ob-
taining ground truth annotations for network training [2].
These annotations are obtained by randomly sampling 1500
cropped images of size 500 × 500 from all 15,000 images
of the orchard, each with original size of 3296 × 2472 pixels
(8.14 megapixels). For ground truth, each fruit is labeled as
a rectangular bounding box, giving both size and location
information. Only fruits on trees in the ﬁrst row are labeled.
Labels of fruits on the ground truth trees are excluded from
the training set. A Python-based annotation toolbox is publicly
available at [16]. We refer the reader to [2], [3] for more details
in implementation and performance of the fruit detection
component.

LIU et al.: MONOCULAR CAMERA BASED FRUIT COUNTING AND MAPPING
3
Figure 2: Proposed pipeline. To count fruits on a speciﬁc row of trees, our pipeline takes in two image sequences recorded from two opposite
sides of the tree row. Firstly, fruits and tree trunks are detected using CNNs. These detected fruits and trunks are then tracked across images,
with a Kalman Filter fusing measurements from the CNN detector and the optical ﬂow estimator. The semantic SfM process directly takes
in these fruit and trunk tracks. It then uses tracked fruits’ centers as feature matches across images, and estimates fruit and trunk landmark
positions and camera poses. The two-side double counted fruits are identiﬁed by comparing the depth wrt the camera center of every fruit
landmark and that of its corresponding tree centroid (approximated by the trunk landmark). Next, fruit data association is re-conducted
by matching fruit landmarks’ re-projections and fruit detections in every image, which automatically identiﬁes double tracked fruits and
eliminates noise in 2D tracking. Finally, we further reﬁne the fruit data association and estimate the total count and map of fruits.
IV. FRUIT COUNTING WITH LANDMARK REPRESENTATION
The fruit detections in each image frame are used to
construct a fruit count for each tree. The challenge in this step
is associating detections with each other across all the image
frames in the entire dataset, or in other words, identifying
double counts. These associated detections then represent a
single fruit.
We consider three kinds of situations which lead to double
counts. The ﬁrst results from observing the same fruit across
consecutive images, which we address by tracking fruits in
the 2D image plane. The second is double tracking caused by
the re-observation of a previously tracked fruit. The third is
double counting of fruits visible from two opposite views of
the tree (i.e. robot facing east and facing west).
Our fruit counting and mapping pipeline thus mainly con-
sists of ﬁve parts. The ﬁrst part performs 2D tracking on fruit
centers to account for the ﬁrst source of double count. The sec-
ond part uses these fruit centers and their associations across
frames as feature matches in a semantic SfM reconstruction
to estimate 3D landmark positions as well as camera poses of
each image frame. The third part projects those 3D landmarks
back to the image plane of every image in order identify
double tracks and address the second source of double count.
The fourth part estimates the 3D locations of tree centroids,
which are approximated by tree trunks in our implementation.
These centroids are used as depth thresholds so only fruits that
are closer to the camera than the tree centroids are counted,
thus accounting for the third source of double count. Finally,
the last part further reﬁnes the fruit association across frames,
and estimates the ﬁnal map of fruit landmarks.
A. Tracking in the Image Plane
Similar to our previous work [4], we use a combination
of the Kanade-Lucas-Tomasi (KLT) optical ﬂow estimator,
Kalman Filter, and Hungarian Assignment algorithm to track
fruits across image frames. However, we improve upon previ-
ous work by deﬁning a different ﬁltering step which fuses
both the Faster R-CNN detections and KLT estimates as
measurements.
Each detection from the Faster R-CNN is associated with a
center and bounding box. Let ci,k = [c(u)
i,k , c(v)
i,k ]T represent the
row and column of the center of fruit i in the image coordinate
space of image Ik, and let ai,k denote the area of the bounding
box. We use the KLT tracker to estimate the optical ﬂow di,k =
[d(u)
i,k , d(v)
i,k ]T for the fruit at ci,k in order to get the predicted
location ˆci,k+1 = ci,k + di,k in image Ik+1. After this optical
ﬂow prediction step, we denote the overlap proportion of the
predicted bounding box of fruit i at predicted position ˆci,k+1
with the bounding box of detected fruit j in Ik+1 as γk+1(i, j).
Our tracking task is a Multiple Hypothesis Tracking (MHT)
problem [17]. Given two sets of detections in consecutive
images Ik and Ik+1, we want to ﬁnd the cost minimizing
assignment which represents the tracks between Ik and Ik+1
using the Hungarian Algorithm [18]. Each possible assignment
between a detection i in Ik and j in Ik+1 is associated with
the following cost:
C(i, j, k) = ||ˆci,k+1 −cj,k+1||2
2
ai,k + aj,k+1
+ (1 −γk+1(i, j)),
Once detection i in Ik has been assigned to detection
j in Ik+1, we have two measurements for its position in
image Ik+1 from the KLT tracker (ˆci,k+1) and the Faster R-
CNN detection (cj,k+1). We use a Kalman Filter [19] to fuse
these two measurements to obtain the ﬁnal estimates of fruits’
positions, which we denote as pi,k. Note that ci,k represents
the centers of Faster R-CNN detected bounding boxes, while
pi,k represents the ﬁltered estimates of the fruit positions.
For every new fruit, we initialize its own Kalman Filter upon
ﬁrst detection. Deﬁne the expanded 4 × 1 state vector xi,k as:
xi,k =
pi,k, ˙pi,k
T =
ui,k, vi,k, ˙ui,k, ˙vi,k
T ,
where we now include ˙ui,k the pixel row velocity and ˙vi,k
the pixel column velocity, both of which have the unit of
( pixel
∆tf ), where ∆tf is the constant time interval between every
two frames. Let ¯dk =
h
1
m
Pm
l=1 d(u)
l,k , 1
m
Pm
l=1 d(v)
l,k
iT
be the
average optical ﬂow of all fruits in Ik. The initial value for
the fruit’s position is the center of its Faster R-CNN detected
bounding box, and the average optical ﬂow of all fruits in the
previous image Ik−1:
xi,k
initialize
−−−−→
 ci,k
¯dk−1

.
In using the average optical ﬂow to initialize the fruit’s
velocity, we exploit the fact that the perceived movement of
the fruit in 2D is due to the motion of the camera.

4
IEEE ROBOTICS AND AUTOMATION LETTERS. PREPRINT VERSION. ACCEPTED JANUARY, 2019
We use the following discrete-time time-invariant linear
system model
xi,k+1 = Axi,k + ω
zi,k+1 =


ˆci,k+1
cj,k+1
¯dk+1
|| ¯dk+1|| · ||di,k||

= Hxi,k+1 + n
where zi,k+1 is our 6 × 1 measurement vector consisting of
the optical ﬂow and Faster R-CNN measurements (assuming
that detection i has been associated with detection j in the
previous step), as well as an additional velocity measurement
that multiplies the magnitude of the fruit’s optical ﬂow in the
previous image di,k, which approximates the fruit’s depth w.r.t.
camera, with current normalized optical ﬂow direction
¯dk+1
|| ¯dk+1||.
A is the state transition matrix, H the observation matrix,
ω the process noise, and n the measurement noise. Both ω and
n are random variables assumed to be drawn from a Gaussian
zero-mean distribution. Speciﬁcally, in our implementation,
those quantities are deﬁned as follows:
A =

I2
I2
0
I2

,
H =


I2
0
I2
0
0
I2

,
ω ∼N(0, Q),
n ∼N(0, R)
where, I2 is the identity matrix of size 2, Q = diag(6, 2, 3, 1)
is 4×4 covariance matrix, and R = diag(3, 1, 1, 0.5, 1, 0.5) is
6×6 covariance matrix. We chose the relative magnitudes for
these covariance matrices since the Faster R-CNN measure-
ments are relatively precise while optical ﬂow measurements
are sometimes noisy.
Thus, given a state xi,k, using the process model in Eqn (1),
we will get an a priori estimate ˆx−
i,k+1 for image Ik+1
given knowledge of the process prior to step k + 1. Using
the measurement zi,k+1, we perform the standard Kalman
Filter prediction and update steps detailed in [19] to compute
the a posteriori state estimate ˆxi,k+1. In this way, we keep
propagating the state vector and covariance matrix of every
fruit until we lose track of it.
Using the above tracking process, we extract the full track-
ing history of every fruit to construct a set MF of the fruit
feature matches. If a fruit detection i has been tracked from
Ik−n to Ik, we add the entire sequence of tracked positions
to MF :
MF = MF ∪
pi,k−n, pi,k−(n−1), . . . , pi,k
T
By constructing this set MF , we account for the ﬁrst kind
of double counts which results from detecting the same fruit
in consecutive frames.
B. Semantic SfM: Estimate the Camera Poses and the Fruit
Landmark Positions from Fruit Feature Matches
The most common SfM implementation associates a de-
scriptor with each geometric feature point, and matches them
using nearest neighbors in the descriptor space. This descriptor
matching process is computationally expensive [20]. Also,
extra effort is required to localize objects of interest in 3D.
Figure 3: Semantic SfM estimated fruit map and camera poses using
one image sequence. The blue arrow denotes the front direction of the
camera. Every point represents a fruit center and every red tetrahedron
represents a camera pose. There are 17 trees in this image sequence.
We propose a semantic SfM which directly uses the frame
to frame fruit feature matches MF output by the 2D tracking
process. As a result, the SfM computation is greatly sped up
and meanwhile fruits are directly localized in 3D. The moti-
vation of our fruit-as-feature semantic SfM includes that (1)
the fruits are consistently tracked across multiple images and
between every pair of images there are sufﬁcient (generally
50 to 100) fruit tracks, and that (2) the frame-to-frame fruit
tracking and matching process considers not only the optical-
ﬂow-based estimates, but also other properties associated with
every fruit including its Fater R-CNN detection, making it
more robust to factors such as illumination shifts than just
tracking points. We use the COLMAP package [21] [22] as
our SfM implementation. The outputs of this SfM step are a
set of 3D landmarks {Li} corresponding to the fruits and a
set of camera poses {Pk} for each frame. Each landmark Li
has an associated 3D position Xi.
The ﬁrst step is to identify a good initial pair of images
to start the SfM reconstruction process. We input our fruit
correspondences MF as raw feature matches, and then con-
duct a geometric veriﬁcation step [21], which uses Epipolar
geometry [23] and RANSAC [24] to determine the best initial
pair of images as well their inlier feature matches. These initial
images are used to initialize the SfM reconstruction process
using two-view geometry [21] [25] [26], in which the initial
pair of camera poses are estimated and landmarks observed
in the initial pair of images are initialized. The Perspective-n-
Point (PnP) algorithm [24] is then employed to incrementally
estimate poses corresponding to the preceding and succeeding
images, while multi-view triangulation is conducted to initial-
ize new landmarks [21].
While the above process generates initial estimates of
camera poses and landmark positions, uncertainties in poses
and landmark positions can increase overtime and cause the
system to drift. Therefore, an optimization process is needed
to correct for these errors. A common approach is to minimize
the reprojection error of the landmarks. The reprojection error
is deﬁned as
ei,k = ||ˆpi,k −pi,k||2
2,
where ˆpi,k is landmark Li’s projection in Ik and pi,k is the
actual position of the fruit determined by our Kalman Filter.
The projection ˆpi,k of landmark Li in image Ik with estimated
camera pose Pk can be calculated as:


ˆui,k
ˆvi,k
1

= K[Rk|Tk]
Xi
1

ˆpi,k =
ˆui,k, ˆvi,k
T ,
(1)
where K is the 3 × 3 camera intrinsic matrix, Rk is the 3 × 3
rotation matrix and Tk is the 3 × 1 translation vector that

LIU et al.: MONOCULAR CAMERA BASED FRUIT COUNTING AND MAPPING
5
deﬁnes the camera rotation and translation in the world frame.
Rk and Tk can be derived from camera pose Pk.
Bundle Adjustment (BA) [27] solves the following nonlinear
optimization problem:
min
Pk, Xi
N
X
i=1
K
X
k=1
ωi,k ei,k,
where N is the total number of landmarks, K is the total num-
ber of images, and ωi,k is the binary valued variable denoting
observability of Li in Ik. The minimizing {P∗
k}, {X∗
i } are
the estimated landmark locations and camera poses from this
SfM step. An example of our semantic SfM reconstruction is
shown in Fig. 3.
C. Avoid Double Counting of Double Tracked Fruits: Re-
associate 3D Landmarks with Detections
The second kind of double counting is also called double
tracking, which results from a missed detection or the fruit
being occluded in an intermediate frame. As a result, the
2D tracking and Semantic SfM step will potentially generate
multiple landmarks for this fruit. A direct way to account for
this problem is to compare the distance between landmarks
and reject those that coincide. Unfortunately, this approach
does not work well, as the fruits are clustered and the SfM
reconstruction only provides relative scale. It is difﬁcult to
choose an absolute threshold that determines whether two
landmarks coincide.
Instead, we approach this problem by re-associating every
3D landmark with 2D Faster R-CNN detections, and dis-
carding landmarks which are not associated to any detection.
We sequentially project the landmarks back to every image
to obtain ˆpL
i,k using Eqn. (1), and match these projections
with the detections using a second Hungarian assignment.
The cost function of this Hungarian assignment is designed
to account for the age of the landmark, or the number of
previous images where it has been observed. Using this cost
function, for two landmarks corresponding to the same fruit,
the older landmark will have lower cost and be matched with
the fruit detection, and the newer landmark will be discarded,
thus avoiding double counting.
In addition to the 3D position Xi, we associate four
additional attributes to landmark Li. The ﬁrst attribute is a
bounding box with area aL
i corresponding to the Faster R-CNN
bounding box in the last frame where landmark Li is observed.
The second attribute is an observability history (ωi,0, . . . ωi,K)
which records the landmark Li’s observability in every frame.
The third attribute is a depth λi,k representing the depth of
Li w.r.t. the camera center of Ik, i.e. the z-axis value of the
landmark in the camera coordinate frame. The fourth attribute
is the age Oi deﬁned by the number of images where Li has
been observed up until the current image.
Using these attributes, we deﬁne the following Hungarian
algorithm cost function for associating landmark Li with
Faster R-CNN detection j in image k:
CL(i, j, k) =
||ˆpL
i,k −cj,k||2
2
aL
i + aj,k
+ (1 −γk(i, j)) + CL
O(s, t).
Figure 4: Projections of fruit landmarks (purple boxes) and Faster
R-CNN fruit detections (green boxes). The fruit-landmark-based ap-
proach can also improve the fruit detection results, by estimating the
positions of highly occluded fruits (in red circles).
CL
O(s, t) is an age cost deﬁned as
CL
O(s, t) = w0 × max(0, (1 −(Oi −O0)/O0)).
O0 is the threshold for age, which we chose to be 7. wO is the
age cost weight, chosen as 0.5, which controls the contribution
of the age cost to the total cost. Conducting this global data
association is relatively cheap in computation since our fruits
are sparse.
Besides avoiding double counting and improving data as-
sociation, the landmark projections also help to improve fruit
detection in 2D images, as shown in Fig. 4
D. Avoid Double Counting from Two Opposite Tree Sides:
Compare the Fruit Landmark with the Tree Centroid
The third kind of double counting is caused by using two
separate image sequences recorded from two opposite sides of
a tree row to count fruits. If these two views of a single row
are captured consecutively, the SfM reconstruction algorithm
should be able to combine both views into a single point cloud
by estimating the pose of the camera as it turns around and
faces the other direction. However, our dataset ﬁrst captures
all rows facing one direction (east), and then turns around
to capture those rows facing the other direction (west). As a
result, the SfM reconstruction process generates two separate
point clouds for each row, and we need to integrate them
together in order to prevent double counting fruits that are
visible from both sides.
We approach this double counting problem by using the tree
centroid, which is represented by the tree trunk, to separate
the tree into two parts. We then only count the fruits that
lie on the closer side of the tree trunk. In order to estimate
the location of the trunk, we track Shi-Tomasi corners on the
trunks [28], which is a modiﬁed version of Harris corners [29].
We need the corner features to lie on the trunk, and therefore
we use the context extraction network, based on the Fully
Convolutional Network (FCN) structure [30] to segment trunks
in every image. The context extraction network takes in an
image of size h′ × w′ × 3 and outputs a score tensor of size
h′×w′×nc where nc is the number of object classes. A dense
CRF [31] is added to reﬁne the network output, which forces
consistency in segmentation and sharpens predicted edge, as
shown in Fig. 5. This is especially important for the next
tracking stage because we want all extracted corners to be
on the trunk.
For a trunk l, we ﬁrst manually choose a start frame Is
according to the segmentation network’s segmentation results.
We only keep segmented trunk masks which lie in the middle
1
3 of the image, ignoring the left 1
3 and right 1
3. This choice

6
IEEE ROBOTICS AND AUTOMATION LETTERS. PREPRINT VERSION. ACCEPTED JANUARY, 2019
Figure 5: Comparison of tree trunk segmentation results before (left)
and after (right) adding dense CRF. White masks are predicted trunk
regions. Adding dense CRF reduces the false positives signiﬁcantly,
which is important for accurately estimating the trunk position.
is because that the illumination of this part of image is most
sufﬁcient, and that there is only one trunk in the middle of
every image, thus avoiding tracking non-target trunks. We
extract m corner points {T1,s, T2,s, Tm,s} inside the trunk
region, and use the KLT tracker to track them across multiple
frames from Is to Is+b. For every tracked corner point, we
obtain a set of point correspondences from Is to Is+b, and
add it to the trunk feature match set.
We set b to be 3, i.e., we track every point across 4
frames, which achieves a good trade-off between robustness
in tracking and accuracy in triangulation. Fig. 6 shows the
tracking process.
Using the pose estimates from Is to Is+b, we conduct a
multi-view triangulation for those corner points and calculate
their depth w.r.t. the camera center of every frame. Considering
that most false positive pixels for trunk segmentation lie on
closer objects such as leaves or fruits (because they occlude
the trunks), we represent the depth λT
l,s of the trunk l at Is
using the third quartile of the depth of all corner points at Is,
i.e.,
n
λT1,s, λT2,s, ..., λTm′,s
o
. For every fruit landmark, before
counting it in Ik, we look back 15 frames, and calculate the
depth of trunk
n
λT
l,k−15, λT
l,k−14...λT
l,k
o
and the depth of the
landmark Li, {λi,k−14, λi,k−15...λi,k}. We then employ the
following voting system to decide whether the fruit landmark
is before the tree centroid: for f in {k −15, k −14, ..., k}, if
λi,f < λT
l,f, we add a before-centroid vote; otherwise, we add
an after-centroid vote. We will count this landmark only if its
before-centroid votes are more than its after-centroid votes.
E. Reﬁne Final Data Association and Final SfM
The ﬁnal step of our algorithm is to estimate the ﬁnal
map of fruits using the semantic SfM introduced in section
IV-B, with the fruit feature matches after re-association in
section IV-C. To guarantee the quality of reconstruction, the
position difference of the matched fruit detections in two
consecutive images is regarded as an initial guess of this
fruit’s displacement between the two images, and the KLT
algorithm is used to ﬁnd the optimal displacement based on
this initial guess. For every fruit, we conduct this reﬁnement
consistently through all frames where it has been tracked.
The position of the fruit i at the ﬁrst tracked frame Ik−n
is deﬁned as its Faster R-CNN detected bounding box center
p∗
i,k−n = ci,k−n. Then the reﬁned optical ﬂow of the fruit i in
the image Ik−n is calculated as d∗
i,k−n = [d∗(u)
i,k−n, d∗(v)
i,k−n]T.
The reﬁned position of fruit i in the image Ik−(n−1) is deﬁned
as p∗
i,k−(n−1) = p∗
i,k−n + d∗
i,k−n. This is computed iteratively
until we lost track of this fruit at Ik. Therefore, the reﬁned
Figure 6: Trunk segmentation (left) and tracking (right). Since trunks
are much larger than fruits, instead of directly tracking the whole
trunk, we extract corners within the predicted trunk mask and track
them. The white lines are the trajectories of extracted corner points.
data association built by this fruit is added to the reﬁned fruit
feature matches set:
MF
k
∗= MF
k
∗∪
h
p∗
i,k−n, p∗
i,k−(n−1), ..., p∗
i,k
iT
With this reﬁned fruit feature match set MF
k
∗, our ﬁnal SfM
output is shown in Fig. 3.
V. RESULTS AND ANALYSIS
In this section, we compare both the estimated count output
from our monocular camera system and the count output of
a benchmark sensor-suite-based system from [3] that uses the
camera, LiDAR and GPS/INS system against the ground truth
ﬁeld count. The benchmark system uses the same Faster R-
CNN as ours to detect fruits in images, the GPS/INS/RTK
system to estimate the camera poses, and the 3D LiDAR
point cloud to estimate the tree centroids and tree masks. Two
algorithms are included in this benchmark system, the Suite
Multi-view algorithm and the Suite Dual-view algorithm. The
Suite Multi-view algorithm uses all sequence images, while the
Suite Dual-view algorithm uses only 2 images from 2 opposing
views (one facing east and one facing west). Although our
monocular camera system only utilizes the 2D images, the
results show that it has comparable performance with the Suite
Multi-view algorithm.
Our data set was collected using an unmanned ground ve-
hicle (UGV) built by the Australian Centre for Field Robotics
(ACFR) at The University of Sydney. It has a 3D LiDAR
and GPS/INS which is capable of real-time-kinematic (RTK)
correction. In addition, it has a Prosilica GT3300C camera
with a Kowa LM8CX lens, which captures the RGB images
of size 3296 × 2472 pixels (8.14 megapixels) at 5Hz [3].
The data set was collected on December 6, 2017, from
a single mango orchard at Simpson Farms in Bundaberg,
Queensland, Australia. We manually counted 18 trees in the
ﬁeld as ground truth. The 18 ground-truth trees were chosen
from all 10 rows of trees in the orchard, to maximise variability
of NDVI (and by extension yield) from multi-band satellite
data. The trees vary in size and occlusion conditions.
Fig. 7, Fig. 8 and Fig. 10 show the counting results of
our monocular camera system and the sensor suite system.
To measure and compare the per-tree counting performance,
we manually mask the target trees in our algorithm.
Fig. 7, and Fig. 8 also depict the improvement in counting
results from the three stages of our pipeline as shown in
Fig. 2. Our raw 2D-tracking count and raw landmark-based
count both have over-counting trends, however, the landmark-
based one better estimates the ground truth in most cases.
This indicates the improvement introduced by landmark-based

LIU et al.: MONOCULAR CAMERA BASED FRUIT COUNTING AND MAPPING
7
Figure 7: Comparison of per-tree count results from all algorithms and ﬁeld (ground truth) count. 18 ground-truth trees are sampled from
all 10 tree rows in the orchard. The X-axis is the tree index, where trees are ranked from smallest to largest according to their ground-truth
counts. The Y-axis is the per-tree fruit count. Both our Mono Final algorithm and the benchmark Suite Multi-view algorithm well estimate the
ﬁeld counts for most ground truth trees. A signiﬁcant improvement can be seen from our 2D tracking outputs to landmark-based outputs, and
from landmark-based outputs to our ﬁnal outputs (count outputs from different stages of our pipeline are denoted in Fig. 2). Suite Dual-view
algorithm is severely under-counting, mainly because that it only uses two opposite images of every tree to get the count, indicating the
advantages of counting from image sequences.
Figure 8: Comparison of per-tree count error against the ﬁeld count. The X-axis is the tree index. The Y-axis is the per-tree fruit count
error against the ﬁeld count (parentheses indicate negative). On average every tree has 175 mangoes. Our Mono Final algorithm and the
benchmark Suite Multi-view algorithm have least errors against the ﬁeld count. Both algorithms are on average slightly under-counting, which
is expected since we are comparing against the ﬁeld count that includes fully occluded fruits. It is notable that all algorithms show a similar
trend in their counting errors, which reﬂects the variance in the occlusion conditions of ground truth trees.
Figure 9: Comparison of linear regression models for our Mono
Final algorithm (left) and the benchmark Suite Multi-view algorithm
(right). The X-axis is the ﬁeld count and the Y-axis is the estimated
count. Every dot represents a tree. For both methods, the slope is
reasonable and R2 are within a relative high precision range.
Measure
Mono Final
Suite Multi-view
Per-tree Count Error Mean
27.8
19.8
Per-tree Count Error Std Dev
29.6
22.9
Figure 10: Per-tree count error mean and standard deviation of our
Mono Final algorithm and the benchmark Suite Multi-view algorithm.
double tracks rejection. After using tree centroids to get rid
of two-side double counts, our ﬁnal output is much more
robust and accurate. In addition, Suite Dual-view algorithm
undercounts, mainly because it only uses two opposite images
of every tree to get the count. This indicates that multi-view
sequence images cover more fruits, and thus it is a more
desirable data collection approach.
Fig. 9 shows the linear regression models ﬁtted for our
monocular-camera-based algorithm’s ﬁnal output and sensor-
suite-based multi-view algorithm’s output. A slope of 1 in-
dicates that the estimated count is proportional to the ﬁeld
count, and a high R2 value indicates that the linear model
on the ﬁeld counts is a good ﬁt for estimated counts. For the
monocular camera system, the slope is 0.86 compared to 0.97
for the sensor suite system, and the R2 value is 0.78 compared
to 0.88. The linear regressions show that most of the data
points corresponding to high ﬁeld counts lie below the unit
diagonal line, which corresponds to our previous observation
that undercounting occurs due to the highly occluded fruits.
The metrics indicate that both systems are performing well.
Most of the difference in performance between the monoc-
ular camera system and the sensor suite system comes from
trees with higher counts, indicating that the sensor suite multi-
view algorithm can better handle occluded fruit. We would
expect both algorithms to handle fruit occlusions equally
well since they are using the same Faster R-CNN detection
network. However, the occluded fruit can cause a performance
difference due to the third source of double counting that
results from combining point clouds from the two different
viewpoints. Due to higher occlusion, from a given side of the
tree, it is more likely that a fruit may lie further than the
trunk centroid, but is not visible from the other side of the
tree. Throwing away this landmark just because it is on the
wrong side of the tree would be too aggressive of a strategy,
and may be the cause of the larger amount of undercounting.
One solution to this problem is a more sophisticated algo-
rithm to integrate the two point clouds. As previously men-
tioned though, if the data was collected so that the two views
of the same row were consecutive, our monocular algorithm
would not need the trunk centroid rejection step since the SfM

8
IEEE ROBOTICS AND AUTOMATION LETTERS. PREPRINT VERSION. ACCEPTED JANUARY, 2019
reconstruction algorithm would be able to integrate both views
into the same point cloud.
One strength of our algorithm is that by using semantic
SfM on fruit features rather than SIFT features, we achieve
a much faster algorithm. On a 4 core i7 CPU for a 1000
frame video, our SfM reconstruction takes about 5 minutes
compared to 10 hours for traditional SIFT based SfM (note
that this does not include 2D fruit tracking computation, since
for our task fruit tracking is needed whether or not it is used
for SfM). This dramatic speed increase is because that, by ﬁrst
estimating the fruit data association across frames, we bypass
the computationally expensive feature extraction and matching
process based on nearest neighbors on the SIFT descriptors.
VI. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
We presented a monocular fruit counting pipeline that paves
the way for yield estimation using commodity smartphone
technology. Such a fruit counting system has applications in
a wider variety of farm environments where cost and environ-
ment constraints prevent the usage of high cost and larger
sensors. Our pipeline begins with detecting fruits and tree
trunks using CNNs. These detected fruits and trunks are then
tracked across images. A semantic SfM is then used to directly
convert 2D tracks of fruits and trunks into 3D landmarks. With
these landmarks, the double counting scenarios are identiﬁed
and the fruit data association is reﬁned. Finally, the total fruit
count and map are estimated. We evaluated our monocular
system on a mango dataset against the actual ﬁeld count as
well as a sensor suite algorithm that uses a monocular camera,
3D LiDAR and GPS/INS system.
When designing a fruit counting system, there is a tradeoff
between hardware complexity and software complexity. We
have identiﬁed modes (trees with high fruit counts) where the
monocular camera only algorithm underperforms the sensor
suite algorithm. Further experimentation is required to under-
stand this tradeoff curve, and identify more possible failure
cases to be improved upon. Despite the restriction to low cost
sensors, we have demonstrated that our monocular system has
comparable performance to the system based on expensive
sensor suite, and it is a step towards the ultimate goal of a
low cost, robust, lightweight fruit counting system.
REFERENCES
[1] J. Das, G. Cross, C. Qu, A. Makineni, P. Tokekar, Y. Mulgaonkar, and
V. Kumar, “Devices, systems, and methods for automated monitoring
enabling precision agriculture,” in Automation Science and Engineering
(CASE), 2015 IEEE International Conference on.
IEEE, 2015, pp.
462–469.
[2] S. Bargoti and J. Underwood, “Deep fruit detection in orchards,” in
Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2017 IEEE International Conference
on.
IEEE, 2017, pp. 3626–3633.
[3] M. Stein, S. Bargoti, and J. Underwood, “Image based mango fruit de-
tection, localisation and yield estimation using multiple view geometry,”
Sensors, vol. 16, no. 11, p. 1915, 2016.
[4] X. Liu, S. W. Chen, S. Aditya, N. Sivakumar, S. Dcunha, C. Qu, C. J.
Taylor, J. Das, and V. Kumar, “Robust fruit counting: Combining deep
learning, tracking, and structure from motion,” in Intelligent Robots and
Systems (IROS), 2018 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on.
IEEE,
2018.
[5] U.-O. Dorj, M. Lee, and S.-s. Yun, “An yield estimation in citrus
orchards via fruit detection and counting using image processing,”
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, vol. 140, pp. 103–112, 2017.
[6] P. Ramos, F. A. Prieto, E. Montoya, and C. E. Oliveros, “Automatic
fruit count on coffee branches using computer vision,” Computers and
Electronics in Agriculture, vol. 137, pp. 9–22, 2017.
[7] P. Roy, A. Kislay, P. A. Plonski, J. Luby, and V. Isler, “Vision-
based preharvest yield mapping for apple orchards,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:1808.04336, 2018.
[8] S. Bargoti and J. P. Underwood, “Image segmentation for fruit detection
and yield estimation in apple orchards,” Journal of Field Robotics,
vol. 34, no. 6, pp. 1039–1060, 2017.
[9] S. W. Chen, S. S. Shivakumar, S. Dcunha, J. Das, E. Okon, C. Qu, C. J.
Taylor, and V. Kumar, “Counting apples and oranges with deep learning:
A data-driven approach,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, vol. 2,
no. 2, pp. 781–788, April 2017.
[10] M. Rahnemoonfar and C. Sheppard, “Deep count: fruit counting based
on deep simulated learning,” Sensors, vol. 17, no. 4, p. 905, 2017.
[11] R. Barth, J. IJsselmuiden, J. Hemming, and E. Van Henten, “Data
synthesis methods for semantic segmentation in agriculture: A capsicum
annuum dataset,” Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, vol. 144,
pp. 284–296, 2018.
[12] Q. Wang, S. Nuske, M. Bergerman, and S. Singh, “Automated crop yield
estimation for apple orchards,” in Experimental robotics.
Springer,
2013, pp. 745–758.
[13] M. Halstead, C. McCool, S. Denman, T. Perez, and C. Fookes, “Fruit
quantity and quality estimation using a robotic vision system,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:1801.05560, 2018.
[14] W. Dong, P. Roy, and V. Isler, “Semantic mapping for orchard environ-
ments by merging two-sides reconstructions of tree rows,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:1809.00075, 2018.
[15] S. Ren, K. He, R. Girshick, and J. Sun, “Faster r-cnn: Towards real-time
object detection with region proposal networks,” in Advances in neural
information processing systems, 2015, pp. 91–99.
[16] Clapper, B.M. Munkres 1.0.8. Available online: https://pypi.python.org/
pypi/munkres.
[17] D. Reid, “An algorithm for tracking multiple targets,” IEEE transactions
on Automatic Control, vol. 24, no. 6, pp. 843–854, 1979.
[18] J. Munkres, “Algorithms for the assignment and transportation prob-
lems,” Journal of the society for industrial and applied mathematics,
vol. 5, no. 1, pp. 32–38, 1957.
[19] R. E. Kalman, “A new approach to linear ﬁltering and prediction
problems,” Journal of basic Engineering, vol. 82, no. 1, pp. 35–45,
1960.
[20] E. Karami, S. Prasad, and M. Shehata, “Image matching using sift,
surf, brief and orb: performance comparison for distorted images,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:1710.02726, 2017.
[21] J. L. Sch¨onberger and J.-M. Frahm, “Structure-from-motion revisited,”
in Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR),
2016.
[22] J. L. Sch¨onberger, E. Zheng, M. Pollefeys, and J.-M. Frahm, “Pixel-
wise view selection for unstructured multi-view stereo,” in European
Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV), 2016.
[23] R. Hartley and A. Zisserman, “Multiple view geometry in computer
vision,” Robotica, vol. 23, no. 2, pp. 271–271, 2005.
[24] M. A. Fischler and R. C. Bolles, “Random sample consensus: a paradigm
for model ﬁtting with applications to image analysis and automated
cartography,” Communications of the ACM, vol. 24, no. 6, pp. 381–395,
1981.
[25] C. Beder and R. Steffen, “Determining an initial image pair for ﬁxing the
scale of a 3d reconstruction from an image sequence,” in Joint Pattern
Recognition Symposium.
Springer, 2006, pp. 657–666.
[26] R. Hartley and A. Zisserman, Multiple view geometry in computer vision.
Cambridge university press, 2003.
[27] B. Triggs, P. F. McLauchlan, R. I. Hartley, and A. W. Fitzgibbon,
“Bundle adjustment—a modern synthesis,” in International workshop
on vision algorithms.
Springer, 1999, pp. 298–372.
[28] J. Shi and C. Tomasi, “Good features to track,” Cornell University, Tech.
Rep., 1993.
[29] C. Harris and M. Stephens, “A combined corner and edge detector.” in
Alvey vision conference, vol. 15, no. 50.
Citeseer, 1988, pp. 10–5244.
[30] J. Long, E. Shelhamer, and T. Darrell, “Fully convolutional networks
for semantic segmentation,” in Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition.
IEEE, Jun 2015, pp. 3431–
3440.
[31] P. Kr¨ahenb¨uhl and V. Koltun, “Efﬁcient Inference in Fully Connected
CRFs with Gaussian Edge Potentials,” 2012. [Online]. Available:
http://arxiv.org/abs/1210.5644
