Vol. 79, No. 2 / 2026 
 
INMATEH - Agricultural Engineering 
 
332 
RECENT ADVANCES SURVEY IN COMPUTER VISION AND ARTIFICIAL 
INTELLIGENCE FOR FRUIT DETECTION 
/ 
TINJAUAN KEMAJUAN TERKINI TEKNOLOGI PENGLIHATAN KOMPUTER DAN 
KECERDASAN BUATAN DALAM PENGESANAN BUAH 
 
Qi LIU1), Puteri Suhaiza binti SULAIMAN1*), Mas Rina binti MUSTAFFA1), Zainal bin Abdul KAHAR1),  
Lian BAI2) and Huicai XU1)  
1) Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology, Universiti Putra Malaysia, Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia 
2) College of Software, Shanxi Agricultural University, Taigu, Shanxi, China 
*Corresponding author: +60 39769 1717; psuhaiza@upm.edu.my 
DOI: https://doi.org/10.35633/inmateh-79-28 
 
Keywords: Fruit Detection, CV, AI, DL, ML 
 
ABSTRACT 
With the development of society and the advancement of science and technology, the object detection 
technology driven by Artificial Intelligence is also constantly innovating. As an important task in the field of 
agricultural Computer Vision, fruit detection in real environments faces many challenges. This paper reviews 
and analyzes the latest breakthroughs and representative studies in this field. Based on the existing research, 
the existing fruit detection algorithms are roughly divided into 5 categories: (1) the traditional fruit detection 
algorithm based on manual features; (2) the fruit detection algorithm based on two stages; (3) the fruit detection 
algorithm based on one stage; (4) the fruit detection algorithm based on anchor-free frame, and (5) the fruit 
detection algorithm based on transfer learning. This paper also discusses various application scenarios, such 
as multi-object detection, complex backgrounds, and edge computing. It also summarizes the classic and 
cutting-edge technical methods at the current time point, providing valuable insights for fruit detection in 
agricultural production. 
 
ABSTRAK 
Dengan perkembangan masyarakat dan kemajuan sains dan teknologi, teknologi pengesanan objek yang 
dipacu oleh kecerdasan buatan juga sentiasa berinovasi. Sebagai tugas penting dalam bidang penglihatan 
komputer pertanian, pengesanan buah-buahan dalam persekitaran sebenar menghadapi banyak cabaran. 
Kertas kerja ini mengulas dan menganalisis penemuan terkini dan kajian-kajian yang mewakili bidang ini. 
Berdasarkan kajian, algoritma pengesanan buah-buahan sedia ada secara kasarnya dibahagikan kepada lima 
kategori, iaitu: (1) algoritma pengesanan buah-buahan tradisional berdasarkan ciri manual; (2) algoritma 
pengesanan buah-buahan berdasarkan dua peringkat; (3) algoritma pengesanan buah-buahan berdasarkan 
satu peringkat; (4) algoritma pengesanan buah-buahan berdasarkan tanpa sauh; dan (5) algoritma 
pengesanan buah-buahan berdasarkan pembelajaran pemindahan. Kertas kerja ini juga membincangkan 
pelbagai senario aplikasi seperti pengesanan berbilang objek, latar belakang kompleks dan pengkomputeran 
tepi. Ia juga meringkaskan kaedah teknikal klasik dan canggih pada masa kini, memberikan pandangan 
berharga untuk pengesanan buah-buahan dalam pengeluaran pertanian. 
 
INTRODUCTION 
Agriculture is one of the most important sectors and plays a vital role in ensuring global food security, 
rural development, and economic growth. As agricultural technology advances and modernizes, several 
challenges need to be addressed, such as climate change, pests and diseases, labor shortages, and the need 
for sustainable resource management (Devlet A., 2021). The fusion of artificial intelligence (AI) and computer 
vision (CV) can alleviate these challenges and open up new opportunities to improve the efficiency, accuracy, 
and yield of agricultural processes. Object detection has become a key technology that helps to autonomously 
identify, locate, and classify objects such as leaves, fruits, pests, and diseases from images or video frames 
(Gupta, S., &Tripathi, A.K., 2024). There are a variety of technologies used for object detection in agriculture, 
including IoT sensors with cameras that can monitor leaves, fruits, vegetables, and crops in real time. Other 
technologies include drones and satellites for capturing large-scale crop images for analysis and pest 
detection, and robotic harvesters for automated sowing and harvesting of fruits and vegetables.  

Vol. 79, No. 2 / 2026 
 
INMATEH - Agricultural Engineering 
 
333 
In addition, due to the advancement of deep learning (DL), object detection methods have shifted from 
feature-based models to data-driven methods, such as convolutional neural networks (CNNs) (O'shea K. & 
Nash R., 2015), YOLO (You Only Look Once) (Redmon J. et al., 2016), and region-based CNN (R-CNN) 
(Girshick R. et al., 2015), which are used to detect pests and diseases and growth stages. In addition, the 
recent developments of Vision Transformers (ViT) (Dosovitskiy A. et al., 2020), EfficientDet (Tan M. et al., 
2020), and hybrid CNN-Transformer architectures have significantly improved the detection performance in 
harsh field environments. 
In recent years, with the development of DL technology, the progress of AI has brought great 
development prospects to object detection. This paper sorts out the mainstream methods and their evolution 
in the current object detection field, summarizes their core features and application effects, reveals key 
influencing factors, and evaluates scalability and deployment feasibility, aiming to provide a reference for 
academia and engineering and help the digital upgrade of the industry. 
Fruit Detection 
As a core technology of CV, object detection aims to achieve dual perception of object location and 
classification in images. In the agricultural field, the goal of object detection is to use images or videos to 
identify and locate certain objects, such as fruits, leaves, vegetables, and pests on crops. This article focuses 
on the application of fruit-related aspects in agricultural planting and production. In the fruit detection scenario, 
its core task is to extract the feature representation of the object from complex farmland images, and then 
realize applications such as automatic picking, yield assessment, and quality grading. Figure 1 shows the 
evolution of the main technical methods for object detection. 
 
2000
2004
2008
2012
2015
2019
2021
2025+
AlexNet
Tradition Era
Deep Learning Era
SIFT/HOG
SVM, RF, AdaBoost
Two-stage
R-CNN,
Fast R-CNN,
Faster R-CNN
One-stage
SSD, YOLO series
Anchor-Free
CenterNet, FCOS
Transfer Learning 
& Transformers
ViT, DETR
Future
Newer technologies
 
Fig. 1 - The evolution of the main technical methods for object detection 
 
Traditional Methods 
Traditional methods have been widely used in tasks such as fruit detection, counting, and grading. The 
core relies on the feature engineering technology route, and detection is mainly achieved through manual 
feature extraction and rule definition, such as color, shape, and texture. Its process usually includes four 
stages: image preprocessing, feature extraction, threshold setting, and classification rules. In image 
preprocessing, Gaussian or median filtering methods are often used for denoising, and color space conversion 
is used to enhance fruit features. Subsequently, the tomato area is extracted from the complex background 
through color segmentation (such as fixed threshold, Otsu method), and morphological operations (erosion, 
expansion, opening operations, and closing operations) are used to optimize the segmentation results. For the 
candidate area, edge detection and Hough transform are combined to fit the contour, and the real fruit is 
screened out using geometric features. At the same time, some fine-grained recognition tasks introduce texture 
analysis to improve accuracy. 

Vol. 79, No. 2 / 2026 
 
INMATEH - Agricultural Engineering 
 
334 
The traditional algorithm is based on the image recognition model, and its detection process always 
consists of two parts. First, the image is feature extracted based on methods such as scale-invariant feature 
transform (SIFT) (Lowe D.G., 2004) and histogram of oriented gradient (HOG) (Dalal N., &Triggs B., 2005), 
and then the object in the image is classified using methods such as support vector machine (SVM) (Burges 
C.J., 1998) and adaptive boosting (Adaboost) (Freund Y., & Schapire R.E., 1995). Ji et al. (2012) proposed an 
apple recognition algorithm based on an SVM by extracting the color and shape features of the fruit in the 
image, and got good results on apple picking robots. However, the strategies for handling situations involving 
leaf shading and densely overlapping fruits are still not perfect and fall short compared to extreme conditions 
in real orchards. Si et al. (2015) proposed a fruit recognition algorithm based on color difference and its ratio, 
which determines the fruit by calculating the color difference and its ratio of pixels. It effectively eliminates the 
influence of shadows and soil in the natural environment, and achieves a recognition rate of 85%. However, 
the experiment used a small data scale, a single experimental scenario, and lacked systematic verification 
under complex conditions. Mehra et al. (2016) transformed images from RGB to Lab* color space, clustered 
pixels using k-means clustering, and then determined maturity based on color characteristics of these clusters. 
By integrating tomato maturity assessment with disease detection within a single CV framework, they 
demonstrated the practical value of multi-task recognition while validating the feasibility of image features for 
fruit quality monitoring and health evaluation. This approach exhibits significant systemic innovation and 
application significance. However, the feature extraction and classification methods employed exhibit 
insufficient robustness to lighting variations, fruit occlusion, and scenarios involving multiple concurrent 
diseases. Furthermore, the limited dataset size and diversity weaken the model's generalization capability, 
making it difficult to detect automated in real environments. Al-Mashhadani et al. (2020) used OpenCV 
combined with the HSV color space to estimate tomato ripeness and perform counting. They determined the 
colors of ripe and nearly ripe fruits through thresholding in the HSV color space. While this technique could 
identify fruits that were ripe and about to change color when grouped, it could not distinguish differences 
between them.  
Traditional algorithms always rely on manually designed feature extraction methods, which are prone to 
false positives and false negatives when faced with complex scenarios such as changes in light, occlusion, 
and overlap. They also suffer from high computational complexity, low robustness, and poor adaptability. 
Although traditional image processing methods based on manual design have the advantages of simple 
implementation, low computational cost, and low hardware requirements, and have played an important role 
in early research, their limitations, such as slow processing speed and high computational complexity, have 
become increasingly apparent (Bello R.-W. et al., 2025). 
Compared with traditional recognition methods, DL-based methods are self-learning directly from the 
image's own features and expression relationships. They have a strong ability to express fruit features, high 
generalization, and high accuracy, solving the problem that traditional methods cannot meet the real-time 
requirements. At the same time, with the improvement of computer computing power, more researchers have 
turned their attention to DL. Girshick et al. (2014) proposed the R-CNN algorithm, and the use of CNNs greatly 
improved the speed of object detection. AlexNet (Krizhevsky A. et al., 2017) defeated traditional object 
detection algorithms in the ImageNet Large-Scale Visual Recognition Challenge, and its speed and accuracy 
are far superior to traditional detection algorithms. So far, DL methods have begun to be widely used in various 
object detection and recognition algorithms. So, there are several main categories of commonly used methods 
for detecting fruits on plants based on DL. First is the Two-Stage-Based Algorithm, second is the One-Stage-
Based Algorithm, third is the Anchor-Free-Based Algorithm, and the last is the Transformer-Based Algorithm. 
Two-Stage-Based Detection Algorithm 
The two-stage object detection algorithm is a classic paradigm for object detection in CV. Its core logic 
is to split the detection task into two stages: "candidate region generation" and "region fine detection" to 
achieve high-precision object positioning and classification. With their powerful feature learning and expression 
capabilities, CNNs have gradually replaced traditional image processing methods and become one of the 
mainstream technologies for detection. As an important representative of the two-stage detection framework, 
the R-CNN series algorithms have promoted the advancement of object detection technology. 
Girshick et al. (2014) proposed the original R-CNN framework, which used a CNN to extract high-level 
features of candidate regions for the first time, significantly improving detection accuracy. The original R-CNN 
uses selective search to generate candidate regions, extracts features one by one through CNN, and combines 
SVM classification and bounding box regression to optimize the detection effect.  

Vol. 79, No. 2 / 2026 
 
INMATEH - Agricultural Engineering 
 
335 
Although it improves accuracy, it still has a high computational cost and slow speed, making it difficult 
to meet real-time requirements. For this, Fast R-CNN (Girshick R., 2015) and Faster R-CNN (Ren S. et al., 
2015) have been introduced. Fast R-CNN reduces redundant calculations and improves detection speed by 
sharing feature maps and ROIPooling. Faster R-CNN is later than Fast R-CNN. It introduces the region 
proposal network (RPN) to achieve end-to-end training of candidate region generation and detection, further 
improving efficiency and accuracy, realizing the integration of detection processes, and laying the foundation 
for a two-stage detection framework. Mask R-CNN (He K. et al., 2017) introduced an instance segmentation 
function based on Faster R-CNN, adds a mask branch, replaces ROIPooling with ROIAlign to eliminate 
quantization error, and realizes end-to-end training of object detection, classification, and instance 
segmentation. It has high accuracy and is extended to tasks such as panoramic segmentation, becoming the 
basic framework for multimodal vision tasks. It is particularly suitable for scenes with densely clustered fruits, 
and can effectively distinguish overlapping fruits and improve detection results. Figure 2 shows the basic 
principle of the two-stage-based detection algorithm.  
Input Image
Region 
Proposal 
Extraction
Region 
Classification
Region 
Coordinate 
Correction
Detection 
Result
 
Fig. 2 - The basic principle of the two-stage-based detection algorithm 
 
Ganesh et al. (2019) implement orange detection and instance segmentation based on Mask R-CNN. 
Its advantage lies in the use of a powerful two-stage segmentation framework, which enables the model to 
maintain high segmentation accuracy under complex backgrounds. However, Mask R-CNN itself has a large 
structure and slow inference speed, which makes it difficult to meet the application requirements of real-time 
picking or drone inspection. Furthermore, it doesn’t conduct in-depth discussions on the model's cross-scene 
generalization, robustness, and data diversity. Afonso et al. (2020) proposed a tomato detection algorithm 
based on the Mask R-CNN approach. This algorithm detects objects and their corresponding pixels, utilizing 
RealSense cameras to capture tomato images from greenhouses for identifying four distinct stages of tomato 
ripeness. Results demonstrate the model's excellent performance in detecting and classifying tomatoes within 
the challenging greenhouse environment, indicating that Mask R-CNN can implicitly learn object depth—a 
critical factor for background elimination. However, the model exhibits strong dependence on the dataset and 
lacks validation for generalization. Wang et al. (2021) integrated an attention mechanism into the Faster R-
CNN model to address the challenge of detecting young tomato against near-color backgrounds. Results show 
this method achieves a mAP of 98.46% with an average detection time of just 0.084 seconds per image. It 
enables real-time, accurate, and efficient detection of young tomato fruits, providing a robust solution for fruit 
detection under near-color backgrounds. But the more complex model structure increases hardware costs and 
deployment complexity. Zu et al. (2021) built a model using Mask R-CNN with a ResNet50-FPN backbone to 
detect and segment green tomatoes in greenhouses. The model uses ROIAlign bilinear interpolation to 
compute object regions generated from training feature maps. It achieves detection and segmentation of ripe 
green tomatoes through parallel operations of ROI object classification, bounding box regression, and mask 
generation. At an IOU threshold of 0.5, the model achieves an F1 score of 92.0%. And the model remains 
limited as experiments were conducted solely on green tomatoes, and performance degrades when fruits 
overlap. Xu et al. (2022) used a bimodal feature map and a balanced multi-task loss model, which improved 
stem segmentation accuracy during cherry tomato harvesting. Nevertheless, challenges persist regarding 
color and shape similarity, loss of stem features, and category differences. Yan et al. (2024) built a 
comprehensive recognition framework based on an improved Faster R-CNN, integrating apple detection, 
quantity statistics, localization, and quality estimation. Its advantage lies in unifying multiple tasks into a single 
model. Through feature pyramid optimization and region proposal modules, it improves detection accuracy 
and stability in complex orchard environments, effectively addressing real-world challenges such as occlusion 
and varying lighting conditions. However, while multi-task coupling enhances functionality, it also increases 
training complexity. Furthermore, the mechanisms of interaction between tasks have not been systematically 
analyzed, and the limited dataset size means that the demonstration of generalization ability remains 
insufficient.  

Vol. 79, No. 2 / 2026 
 
INMATEH - Agricultural Engineering 
 
336 
Cong et al. (2025) proposed the TQVG Model based on Mask R-CNN for tomato quality grading. Results 
demonstrate that the model achieves higher mAP and faster inference speeds with fewer parameters. The model 
exhibits high dependence on training data, sensitivity to annotation quality, and lacks performance validation for 
real-time and mobile deployment. Furthermore, optimization is still needed in terms of inference efficiency. 
While the R-CNN series offer high detection accuracy, they still have some significant limitations for 
widespread application in fruit detection. Their reliance on a two-stage process of "candidate region generation 
+ classification and regression" results in high overall computational cost, slow inference speed, large file size, 
and cumbersome workflow, making edge deployment difficult and hindering real-time detection. Although 
improvements over the original R-CNN, independent steps such as candidate region generation still exist, 
leading to complex structures, high training costs, high computational resource requirements, and difficulties 
in end-to-end optimization. They also tend to miss information about dense, small objects, making them less 
effective against both small and dense objects. 
Therefore, although they have significantly advanced object detection technology by optimizing feature 
extraction and candidate region generation, and perform well in high-accuracy detection and robustness 
against complex backgrounds, real-time deployment on mobile terminals and edge devices remains 
challenging due to limitations in detection speed and model size. So, it is necessary to combine lightweight 
design with efficient feature extraction strategies to further improve their practicality and versatility. Figure 3 
shows the mAP values of some Two-stage detectors on the COCO dataset. 
 
Fig. 3 - The mAP values of some Two-stage detectors on COCO dataset. There’re Faster-RCNN (Ren S. et al., 
2015), R-FCN (Dai J. et al., 2016), FPN (Lin T.-Y. et al., 2017), Mask-RCNN (He K. et al., 2017), Cascade RCNN (Cai Z., 
Vasconcelos, N., 2018), HTC (Chen K. et al., 2019), DetectoRS (Qiao S. et al., 2021), ThunderNet (Qin Z. et al., 2019), 
TridentNet (Li Y. et al., 2019), Sparse RCNN (Sun P. et al., 2021), EfficientDet (Tan M. et al., 2020). 
 
One-Stage-Based Detection Algorithm 
The regression-based one-stage fruit detection and recognition method does not need to generate candidate 
regions, but directly obtains the category probability and position of the object, making its network structure simpler 
and sacrificing some accuracy, but the detection and recognition speed of the algorithm is improved. 
YOLO (Redmon, J. et al., 2016) series are a typical representative of one-stage detection. With its end-
to-end structure, fast speed, and high accuracy, it has become the mainstream technical route for fruit 
detection. Since YOLO was proposed, it has been iterated on many versions and widely used in agricultural 
visual inspection, especially in real-time and deployment flexibility scenarios. With the iteration, the YOLO 
series continues to optimize detection accuracy, efficiency, and generalization ability. YOLO9000 (Redmon J., 
& Farhadi A., 2017) adopted Darknet-19, anchor box and multi-scale training to improve the performance of 
small object detection; YOLOv3 (Redmon J. & Farhadi A., 2018) adopted a deeper Darknet-53 to enhance 
feature expression; YOLOv4 (Bochkovskiy A. et al., 2020) and YOLOv5 integrated CSPNet, Mish activation 
function, and Mosaic data enhancement, significantly improving speed and accuracy, and are widely used; 
YOLOv7 (Wang C.-Y. et al., 2023) proposed the ELAN (Efficient Layer Aggregation Network) architecture, 
which improves feature utilization through grouped convolution and residual connection, and performs 
expansion and compound scaling, supplemented by dynamic label allocation optimization, with strong 
robustness, and can adapt to complex lighting and occlusion scenes.  
42.7
53.2
59.1
62.3
62.1
63.9
74.2
46.2
69.7
71.1
71.4
21.9
31.5
36.2
39.8
42.8
47.1
55.7
28.1
48.4
51.5
52.2
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
Accuracy(%)
Detector
Histogram of  mAP Values about Two‐stage 
COCO mAP@.5
COCO mAP@[.5, .95]

Vol. 79, No. 2 / 2026 
 
INMATEH - Agricultural Engineering 
 
337 
YOLOv8 adopts a unified framework for all tasks, enhanced features, and improved loss functions, and 
introduces adaptive strategies to achieve real-time deployment optimization. And YOLOX (Ge Z. et al., 2021) 
in the YOLO series is also a model based on an anchor-free architecture. YOLOX divides the input image into 
multiple smaller grids, so that predictions can be made quickly and grid by grid. YOLOX-PAI (Wu Z. et al., 
2022) is an improved version of YOLOX. Its core part uses an adaptive spatial feature fusion strategy for 
feature enhancement and an attention mechanism to organize tasks. Figure 4 shows the basic principle of the 
one-stage-based detection algorithm. 
Input Image
Deep Neural 
Network
Detection 
Result
 
Fig. 4 - The basic principle of the one-stage-based detection algorithm 
 
Mirhaji et al. (2021) utilize various YOLO models to detect and estimate fruit load in citrus orchards, and 
systematically evaluate the impact of different imaging methods and lighting conditions on detection 
performance. The results show that the model's precision, recall, F1 score, and mAP are 91.23%, 92.8%, 92%, 
and 90.8%, respectively, and the overall performance difference between nighttime and daytime imaging is 
not significant. But the model lacks specific optimization for orchard shading, dense fruit distribution, or strong 
light interference, and its robustness requires further verification.  
Hernández et al. (2023) proposed a tomato ripeness detection model based on YOLOV3-tiny, achieving 
an F1 score of 90%. Although YOLOv3-tiny is sufficiently lightweight to significantly boost inference speed 
while maintaining detection accuracy, its overly simplified architecture limits feature extraction capabilities. 
This results in insufficient recognition accuracy under complex lighting, occlusion, and color transition 
conditions, necessitating further improvements in model robustness.  
Zhang et al. (2023) employed YOLOv4-Tiny + FENB to detect tomatoes under occluded backgrounds 
during both daytime and nighttime. The nighttime mAP value reached 94.72%, with test results consistently 
outperforming both YOLOv4 and YOLOv4-Tiny, demonstrating the model's robust performance under 
nighttime and occluded conditions. However, the authors provided limited validation of the model's robustness 
and adaptability in complex backgrounds.  
Li et al. (2023) proposed the YOLOv5s-Tomato model to identify four distinct tomato maturity stages. 
They enhanced small object detection performance using techniques like Mosaic data augmentation, the 
Focus module, and the CSPNet network architecture, while employing EIoU as the loss function. This 
approach yielded significant improvements in model size and detection speed. Results demonstrate that the 
model effectively meets greenhouse detection requirements while improving recognition accuracy for occluded 
and small tomatoes. Since all training images originated from a single greenhouse, further research is needed 
to evaluate its generalization in complex environments.  
Zhang et al. (2024) proposed a cascaded DL network based on YOLOv5 for tomato detection and 
classification, achieving 82.4% accuracy and 90.9% recall in detecting unobstructed tomatoes. Additionally, 
the network achieved an average accuracy of 96.9% for tomato ripeness classification and a detection speed 
of 20 FPS. The validation dataset primarily relied on a single greenhouse scenario, leaving its generalization 
capability in complex backgrounds insufficiently validated. Furthermore, the analysis of trade-offs between 
accuracy, stability, and real-time performance for pose classification was inadequate.  
Wang et al. (2024b) proposed the NVW-YOLOv8s model for real-time detection and segmentation of 
tomatoes at three distinct ripeness stages. This model addresses challenges such as sample imbalance, small 
object detection, and occlusion by introducing a foreground-foreground category balancing method and the 
C2f-N module, significantly enhancing detection and segmentation performance. The results show that both 
the mAP@0.5 and F1-Score outperform the baseline model YOLOv8s. However, this study lacks validation of 
the model's generalization ability across different geographical regions, growth conditions, or tomato varieties. 
Wu et al. (2024) proposed a tomato ripeness recognition and stem detection model to address occlusion 
and overlap issues. The model incorporates CBAM attention and EfficientVMamba modules to enhance 
feature extraction from tomatoes at different maturity stages and improve small object detection. Experimental 
results demonstrate that the model achieves higher mAP, precision, recall, and F1 scores than the original 
YOLOv8n model when identifying tomatoes of varying ripeness in complex environments.  

Vol. 79, No. 2 / 2026 
 
INMATEH - Agricultural Engineering 
 
338 
However, due to the limited diversity of scenarios, further validation of robustness and generalization 
capabilities is lacking.  
Zhao et al. (2025) proposed a more lightweight and efficient ripeness detection algorithm, YOLO-DGS, 
to achieve precise detection of tomato fruit ripeness in natural environments. Experimental results demonstrate 
that the improved model achieves notable enhancements in inference speed, parameter count, F1 score, 
recall, and mAP. The study does not explore the lightweight nature or its application on edge devices.  
Teng et al. (2025) propose a lightweight improved YOLOv8 model, DS-YOLO, for efficient strawberry 
fruit detection. By introducing depthwise separable convolutions and a lightweight feature fusion module, the 
model significantly reduces the number of parameters and computational cost, while maintaining or slightly 
improving detection accuracy and achieving higher real-time performance.  
Experimental results show improvements in mAP@0.5, recall, and precision, while reducing the number 
of parameters and computational cost. Limited by the relatively small experimental dataset and limited 
scenarios, the model's generalization ability was not adequately validated. Furthermore, the model's robustness 
improvement was also limited for small strawberries, dense fruit clusters, and extreme lighting conditions. 
The YOLO series are driving the development of detection technology towards real-time, lightweight, 
and industrial applications thanks to its excellent balance between speed and accuracy, flexible architecture, 
and complete ecosystem. However, due to its high downsampling and low feature map resolution, the YOLO 
series algorithms are prone to overlooking small objects or inaccurately locating them. Detection quality tends 
to degrade when objects are densely packed, overlapping, or when there is strong background interference. 
Since it relies primarily on manual resolution of class imbalances, its generalization ability is limited, and 
lightening the model significantly reduces its performance, making it difficult to achieve both accuracy and 
speed. In the future, it is hoped that solutions or approaches such as integrating Transformers, NAS 
optimization, and integrated detection-segmentation-tracking functions can further improve the performance 
of intelligent fruit detection models. Figure 5 shows the mAP of One-stage detectors on COCO dataset. 
 
Fig. 5 - The mAP of One-stage detectors on COCO dataset.  
There’re SSD (Liu W. et al., 2016), DSSD (Fu C.-Y. et al., 2017), YOLOv2 (Redmon J. & Farhadi, A., 2017), YOLOv3 
(Redmon J. & Farhadi, A., 2018), YOLOv4 (Bochkovskiy A. et al., 2020), YOLOv5 (Jocher G. et al., 2022), YOLOv6 (Li 
C. et al., 2022), YOLOv9 (Wang C.-Y. et al., 2024), YOLOv10 (Wang A. et al., 2024a), YOLOX (Ge Z. et al., 2021). 
 
Anchor-Free-Based Detection Algorithm 
Although the anchor-free-based algorithm can select positive samples for box regression, it relies on 
pre-defined boxes and brings some obvious limitations. When too many negative samples are generated, there 
will be class imbalance; the anchor box of the object class also has the problem of object positioning; the 
hyperparameters introduced by the anchor box can only be adjusted based on experience, which may be a 
huge challenge when the workload is large. Based on the idea of eliminating the pre-defined anchor box, the 
anchor-free-based algorithm is proposed to solve these potential problems. The algorithms can be divided into 
key-point-based methods and anchor-point-based (also called center-point-based) methods. 
46.4
53.3
44
57.9
65.7
68.9
70
72.8
71.3
69.6
27.7
33.2
21.6
33
43.5
50.7
52.5
55.6
54.4
51.2
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
Accuracy(%)
Detector
Histogram of  mAP Values about One‐stage 
COCO mAP@.5
COCO mAP@[.5, .95]

Vol. 79, No. 2 / 2026 
 
INMATEH - Agricultural Engineering 
 
339 
 
Key-point-based detection algorithms use multiple preset keypoints to detect objects and make 
bounding box predictions based on grouping these keypoints. The first algorithm is CornerNet (Law H., Deng, 
J., 2018), which uses keypoint pairs at the top left and bottom right corners of the bounding box to detect 
objects and introduces a pooling layer to better locate the bounding box corners. And the CornerNet-Lite (Law 
H. et al., 2019) improves efficiency by introducing an attention mechanism to reduce the number of pixels 
processed. Then, Matrix networks (xNets) (Rashwan A. et al., 2019) provide a lightweight architecture based 
on scale and aspect ratio, making detection faster. Besides, CenterNet (Duan K. et al., 2019) addresses the 
limitations of CornerNet by adding a third keypoint in the bounding box. 
Zhao & Yan (2021) selected the CenterNet framework as the model for solving the problem of fruit 
detection in digital images. It achieves end-to-end prediction in a single-stage detection process, omitting the 
candidate box generation step of the traditional two-step method and improving detection speed.  
Experiments demonstrate that the model can maintain high detection accuracy even in complex 
backgrounds, reflecting the potential of CenterNet for small and dense objects. The experiments lack 
comparisons with more advanced or lightweight models, making it difficult to evaluate their practical 
advantages in current fruit detection research. Furthermore, the detection capability for multiple categories or 
fruits of different ripeness levels is not verified to validate the model's generalization ability, and its robustness 
in occluded, low-light, or multi-view scenarios is not validated. Wang et al. (2024) proposed a novel model 
called CenterNet-LW-SE based on CenterNet. Experimental results show that the model outperforms the 
original CenterNet in precision, recall, model size, and detection speed, achieving a 2.1% performance 
improvement while reducing model size by 16.69% and shortening average detection time by 30.40%. It 
enhances feature representation capabilities to address the challenges of small objects, strong camouflage, 
and complex backgrounds of camellia fruit in natural environments, particularly excelling in fine-grained feature 
enhancement. However, the overall model architecture still relies on CenterNet, and it lacks sufficient 
comparison with more advanced lightweight models (such as YOLOv8n, RT-DETR, and MobileOne), making 
it difficult to demonstrate its competitive advantage among current lightweight detection frameworks. 
Generalization validation is insufficient, lacking cross-regional, cross-seasonal, and cross-device dataset 
testing; model stability requires further verification. Although it claims to be lightweight, it does not provide a 
complete evaluation of inference time and hardware deployment, lacking edge performance metrics to support 
its deployment value. Fan et al (2024) employed the CenterNet neural network as the detection framework, 
which improved keypoint prediction accuracy while maintaining low computational cost and achieving a 
lightweight design. They also implemented structural reinforcement and feature enhancement for complex 
orchard environments, significantly improving the model's robustness in unstructured environments. 
Experimental results show that the model achieves an AP of 96.80% on the test set, with 18.91 FPS, a size of 
only 17.56 MB, and a RMSE of 4.405 mm for localization accuracy. Due to its relatively limited testing 
scenarios, its generalization and robustness under complex occlusion conditions are an important challenge. 
Anchor-point-based detection algorithms use preset anchors and perform detection pixel by pixel. 
DenseBox (Huang L. et al., 2015) is an excellent anchor-point-based detection algorithm. And some years 
later, the fully convolutional single-stage (FCOS) (Tian Z. et al., 2019) model was proposed as a representative 
model, which uses FPN for multi-level prediction and forces classification of positive and negative anchors, 
and adds a prediction branch to the classification branch to eliminate the interference of anchors. The FCOS 
model is not only fast in calculation speed, but also can be customized to meet more requirements. 
Liu et al. (2022) propose an accurate detection and segmentation method based on the FCOS object 
detection model for detecting and segmenting occluded green fruits. Results show that on the apple dataset, 
the detection and segmentation accuracies for green fruits reach 81.2% and 85.3%, respectively. On the 
Apple-ape dataset, the detection accuracy and segmentation accuracy reach 77.2% and 79.7%, respectively. 
The model has 39.7 M parameters and 169.8 G floating-point operations. The model addresses the problem 
of green fruits easily blending with the background leaves in natural scenes, resulting in weak contrast. An 
improved model is proposed to significantly enhance the distinguishability of fruits under the "occlusion + 
same-color background" condition. Combined with enhanced feature extraction and segmentation 
mechanisms (such as attention modules or multi-scale fusion), it effectively and robustly improves the 
segmentation boundary quality for fruits with weak texture and partial occlusion. But the model structure is 
relatively complex and computationally intensive, and the dataset coverage is still limited, so the bottlenecks 
in lightweight design and adaptability may still exist.  

Vol. 79, No. 2 / 2026 
 
INMATEH - Agricultural Engineering 
 
340 
Zhao et al. (2023) propose a novel fruit detection model called FCOS-LSC based on FCOS to better 
address the challenge of identifying green fruits. This model can directly predict the object's center point and 
size, avoiding the complexity and parameter tuning issues of traditional anchor-box methods. It effectively 
enhances the ability to identify low-contrast fruits in complex backgrounds and efficiently identifies and locates 
green fruit images affected by overlapping occlusion, lighting conditions, and shooting angles. Experiments 
are insufficient to verify the model's generalization ability under different lighting conditions, different varieties, 
or multiple fruit categories, indicating room for improvement in robustness. Specific analysis of deployment 
efficiency, model parameter count, and computational cost is lacking, limiting its guidance for practical mobile 
or edge applications. Figure 6 shows the mAP of Anchor-free detectors on the COCO dataset. 
 
Figure 6. The mAP of Anchor-free detectors on the COCO dataset. There’re CornerNet (Law H., &Deng J., 2018), 
CenterNet (Zhou X. et al., 2019a), ExtremeNet (Zhou X. et al., 2019b), FCOS (Tian Z. et al., 2019). 
 
Transformer-Based Detection Algorithm 
With the widespread application of the Transformer architecture in the field of CV, object detection 
technology has achieved a breakthrough. In 2020, the Facebook AI Research team proposed DETR 
(DEtection TRansformer) (Carion N. et al., 2020), which for the first time used a full Transformer structure to 
achieve end-to-end detection, eliminating traditional modules such as anchors and NMS. DETR has opened 
up a new path for object detection, especially in complex backgrounds and overlapping occlusions, showing 
good robustness and high accuracy, and has attracted attention in the field of intelligent agricultural monitoring. 
DETR is the first end-to-end framework that introduces the Transformer into object detection. It 
eliminates NMS and anchor boxes through binary matching, directly outputs detection results, and simplifies 
the process. The first generation of DETR has high accuracy but slow training and limited small object detection 
capabilities, which affects the promotion of agricultural applications; the subsequent Deformable DETR (Zhu 
X. et al., 2020) proposed a deformable attention mechanism, introduced deformable convolution to strengthen 
local feature learning, and only focused on key sampling points, greatly improving small object detection 
performance and training efficiency; Conditional DETR (Meng D. et al., 2021) accelerated training convergence 
through the conditional cross-attention mechanism, which is faster than DETR; DN-DETR (Li F. et al., 2022) 
proposed a denoising training strategy, accelerated convergence by adding noise queries and reconstructing 
labels, and enhanced cross-scenario generalization capabilities through dynamic training strategies; DINO 
(Zhang H. et al., 2022) integrated DN-DETR’s denoising training and conditional attention to achieve SOTA 
performance  and support few-sample detection; RT-DETR (Zhao Y. et al., 2024) was improved based on 
DINO to achieve real-time end-to-end detection, balance accuracy and speed, and improve model 
performance; ViDT++ (Song H. et al., 2021b) combines visual Transformer and DETR to propose a sparse 
attention mechanism to achieve efficient detection on high-resolution images (Zhu X. et al., 2020). The DETR 
series is easy to integrate with multi-task learning, supports fruit detection, maturity grading, and size 
estimation, promotes the integrated development of intelligent monitoring, and is evolving towards lightweight 
and edge device adaptation, with good industrial application prospects. The Figure 11 shows the architecture 
of RT-DETR, and Figure 12 shows the mAP values of some classic transfer learning-based object detection 
models on the coco dataset.  
57.8
64.5
60.5
64.1
42.2
47
43.7
44.7
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
CornerNet
CenterNet
ExtremeNet
FCOS
Accuracy(%)
Detector
Histogram of  mAP Values about Anchor‐free
COCO mAP@.5
COCO mAP@[.5, .95]

Vol. 79, No. 2 / 2026 
 
INMATEH - Agricultural Engineering 
 
341 
Huang et al. (2024) designed a lightweight Transformer architecture-based pear detection model for 
natural environments, using the RT-DETR model. The improved model achieves accuracy, recall, and mean 
accuracy of 93.7%, 91.9%, and 98%, respectively. Compared with the original model, the number of 
parameters, computational cost, and weight memory are reduced by 48.47%, 56.2%, and 48.31%, 
respectively. This successfully combines the strong feature modeling capabilities of the Transformer with real-
time requirements, alleviating the problems of large parameter count and high computational consumption in 
traditional ViT models. This research does not fully address the issue of insufficient training data, which may 
affect the model's generalization ability, and its adaptability to scenarios with extreme lighting changes and 
dense fruit occlusion is insufficient, requiring further strengthening of robustness. The model complexity is still 
higher than most lightweight CNNs, limiting its feasibility for deployment on low-power MCUs or edge devices 
with extremely low computing power. Zhang (2025) proposed PG-DETR based on DETR for detecting small, 
occluded early-stage pomegranate fruits in complex orchard environments. Experimental results show that 
PG-DETR requires only 6.7 million parameters and has a computational cost of 12.4 GFLOPs/s, achieving a 
mAP50 of 93.37%. Compared to the RT-DETR-R18 baseline model, our model reduces parameters by 66.2%, 
GFLOPs by 78.2%, and inference speed by 3.2 times, reaching 173.58 FPS. Despite its "lightweight" design, 
the DETR framework still incurs some computational overhead compared to YOLO-like frameworks, and its 
deployment advantage on truly low-power devices is not significant. Furthermore, the model's training is highly 
dependent on factors such as convergence speed and data size requirements, and its generalization ability 
may still be limited in small-sample agricultural scenarios. Tang et al. (2025) proposed a novel multi-scale 
lightweight DETR (ML-DETR) for the identification of ripe cherry tomatoes. The ML-DETR model achieves an 
accuracy of 91.36%, an mAP50 of 0.8875, a floating-point computation of 13.9 GFLOPs, and a frame rate of 
81.2 FPS, outperforming the original RT-DETR model. This research primarily focuses on ripe fruit detection, 
with insufficient validation of its generalization ability to immature, occluded, and densely packed fruits, and 
incomplete coverage of real-world application scenarios. Furthermore, deployment experiments on real-world 
edge hardware are lacking, and the value of its lightweight design has not been fully validated in terms of 
actual device power consumption or real-time performance. Liu et al. (2024) proposed a green apple detection 
model based on an optimized deformable DETR. Experimental results show that the improved detection model 
significantly improves accuracy, with an overall AP of 54.1, an AP50 of 80.4, an AP75 of 58.0, an AP of 35.4 
for small objects, an mAP of 60.2 for medium objects, and an AP of 85.0 for large objects. The model, based 
on a deformable DETR structure optimization, effectively enhances the detection capability for low-contrast, 
camouflaged objects like green apples, especially performing well in natural environments with leaf shading 
and complex lighting conditions. However, the experimental comparison range is relatively narrow, mainly 
focusing on green apples; cross-crop generalization ability was not tested, and scalability and universality are 
insufficient. Furthermore, the model's actual deployment performance is lacking, and the real-time harvesting 
or monitoring needs in agricultural scenarios have not been fully validated. Figure 7 shows the mAP values of 
some classic transfer learning-based object detection models on the coco dataset. 
 
Fig. 7 - The mAP values of some classic Transformer-based detectors on the COCO dataset  
They’re TSP‐RCNN (Sun Z. et al., 2021), TSP‐FCOS (Sun Z. et al., 2021), Efficient‐DETR (Yao Z. et al., 2021), DETR 
(Carion N. et al., 2020), Deformable-DETR (Zhu X. et al., 2020), Relation-DETR (Hou X. et al., 2024), Conditional‐DETR 
(Meng D. et al., 2021), Anchor‐DETR (Wang Y. et al., 2022), DAB‐DETR (Liu S. et al., 2022), DN‐DETR (Li F. et al., 
2022), RT‐DETR (Zhao Y. et al., 2024), DDQ‐DETR (Zhang S. et al., 2023), MS-DETR (Zhao C. et al., 2024). 
66
63.8
64.1
64.7
71.9
80.8
66.8
65.7
67
67.4
73.1
77
68.7
46.5
44.4
45.7
44.9
52.3
63.5
45.9
45.1
46.6
48.6
54.8
58.8
51.7
0
20
40
60
80
100
Accuracy(%)
Detector
Histogram of  mAP Values about Transformer‐based
COCO mAP@.5
COCO mAP@[.5, .95]

Vol. 79, No. 2 / 2026 
 
INMATEH - Agricultural Engineering 
 
342 
Key Challenges 
Fruit detection technology can realize automatic fruit recognition, counting, and status analysis through 
DL algorithms, and is widely used in fields such as yield estimation, intelligent picking, and quality grading. 
Algorithms such as YOLOv8 and Faster R-CNN achieve a balance between detection accuracy and speed 
through multi-scale feature fusion and attention mechanism optimization. The Anchor-Free architecture is more 
adaptable to irregular fruits, and the introduction of the Transformer architecture improves the segmentation 
of overlapping and occluded objects. Current technology faces challenges such as missed detection of small 
objects, complex background interference, and insufficient real-time performance. Table 1 shows the main 
characteristics, advantages, and disadvantages of the backbone networks of some typical object detection 
models. 
Table 1 
The main characteristics, advantages, and disadvantages of the backbone networks of some typical 
object detection models. 
Author 
Net 
Innovations 
Advantages 
Disadvantages 
(Krizhevsky, A. 
et al., 2012) 
AlexNet 
The first employed 
a deep CNN, used 
sequential 
convolutional 
layers, and used a 
wide sensory field. 
First pioneering DL for 
visual tasks; overall 
ease of understanding 
and implementation of 
the model; significant 
results for small 
datasets. 
Although a deep 
network is used, the 
network has only 8 
layers with limited 
depth; the 
computational cost of 
the model is high. 
(Simonyan, K., 
& Zisserman, A., 
2014) 
VGGNets 
Modeled with small 
convolutional filters 
(3×3); built a depth 
architecture; 
innovative use of 
miniature 
convolutional filters. 
Strong model 
performance; performs 
well across datasets; 
good at capturing 
spatial hierarchies. 
The model requires 
high computational 
power; the number of 
parameters in the 
model is large; the 
model is memory-
intensive. 
(He, K. et al., 
2016) 
ResNets 
Innovative use of 
residual 
connectivity; first 
use of ultra-deep 
networks; enables 
batch normalization 
of applications. 
Effectively mitigates the 
gradient vanishing 
problem; the model is 
highly scalable; it is 
faster and smaller 
compared to VGG. 
The model requires 
more computational 
power; the model is too 
parameterized; the 
model is complex to 
train. 
(Szegedy, C. et 
al., 2017) 
Inception-
ResNet 
Used the Inception 
module with 
residual 
concatenation; 
established a multi-
scale feature 
extraction 
mechanism; applied 
the residual 
Inception module 
The model has more 
accuracy; the model is 
very efficient in 
extracting features; it 
effectively combines 
the advantages of 
Inception and ResNet. 
Higher complexity of 
model architecture; 
high model 
requirements on 
computational 
resources; smaller 
range of applications 
(Huang, G. et 
al., 2017) 
DenseNets 
The model has a 
compact 
architecture, and 
the input of the next 
layer comes from 
the output of the 
previous layer. 
The model achieves 
efficient reuse of 
features, etc.; the 
model effectively 
mitigates the gradient 
vanishing problem. 
Models are memory-
intensive; internal 
connections are 
complex; memory 
consumption is high. 
(Hu, J. et al., 
2018) 
SENet 
Enables channel-
level feature 
recalibration and 
lightweight modules 
Improved channel 
interdependency and 
accuracy while 
enabling efficient 
integration with other 
architectures 
Increases 
computational 
overhead and thus 
training time; slower 
than ResNets 
(Tan, M., &Le, 
Q., 2019) 
EfficientNets 
A composite scaling 
method is used; 
depth separation of 
the convolution is 
achieved; and it is 
lightweight and 
efficient. 
Higher precision and 
better efficiency with 
fewer parameters. 
Requires tuning of 
scaling parameters; 
costly for computation 
and data movement; 
one-dimensional 
scaling only 

Vol. 79, No. 2 / 2026 
 
INMATEH - Agricultural Engineering 
 
343 
Author 
Net 
Innovations 
Advantages 
Disadvantages 
(Wang, C.-Y. et 
al., 2020) 
CSPResNeX
t 
Implementing partial 
connectivity across 
stages, aggregating 
residual transforms; 
class does 
EfficientNet-like 
scaling 
Reduced memory costs 
while not only 
maintaining accuracy 
but also obtaining 
better inference rates 
Increased complexity, 
long training time, 
edges, and poor 
generalization 
(Wang, C.-Y. et 
al., 2021) 
CSPDarkNet 
Partial connectivity 
enhancement 
across phases; 
available for 
YOLOv4; efficient 
feature extraction 
Effectively balances 
speed and accuracy; 
reduces memory costs; 
can be used for real-
time inspection 
programs. 
Increased design 
complexity of the 
architecture leads to 
reduced ease of use 
and increased training 
time. 
(Liu, Z. et al., 
2022) 
ConvNeXt 
Simpler architecture 
with fewer activation 
and normalization 
layers 
High performance; 
simple design; good 
generalization across 
different datasets 
Requires more 
validation, high 
computational effort, 
and high computational 
power requirements 
(Oquab, M. et 
al., 2023) 
DINOv2 
A self-supervised 
vision converter is 
employed to enable 
more efficient 
feature extraction. 
Strong generalization 
ability and self-
supervised learning 
without labeled data 
It is data and 
computation-intensive, 
with high equipment 
requirements, while 
being less effective for 
small data sets. 
(Matszangosz, 
K.K., &Wendt, 
M., 2024) 
SAM 
It's a base model 
created by the 
Facebook team that 
can be used in a 
wide range of 
applications. 
Highly adaptable and 
can be used without 
adjustment or with fine-
tuning 
Extremely demanding 
on computing and 
storage resources, and 
real-time detection is 
not currently possible 
 
Difficulty in Dense Detection of Small Objects 
In the fruit detection task, “small object dense detection” is a key challenge, where the fruit size is often 
less than 2%-5% of the image resolution, and in the processing is easy to lose the features, resulting in a 
decline in the detection accuracy or even failure to detect the object. At the same time, the dense cluster 
distribution of fruits, accompanied by mutual overlap and branch and leaf occlusion, makes it difficult for the 
detection network to distinguish between neighboring small objects, and easy to miss detection and false 
detection. Researchers use multi-scale feature fusion, high-resolution input, attention mechanism, Deformable 
Convolution, and Transformer feature enhancement to improve the detection of dense small objects (Bai Y. et 
al., 2024; Luo Q. et al., 2024; Song H. et al., 2021a). However, the detection of dense small objects in complex 
environments is still a bottleneck (Gong X., &Wu Q.). 
The Effects of Occlusion and Overlap 
Fruits grow in the plant, are mostly obscured by leaves, or often grow in clusters and densely, which 
brings about seriousness between pairs of branches and leaves and fruits, resulting in blurred fruit outlines 
and making it difficult to distinguish the boundaries, which becomes a key challenge affecting the detection 
accuracy. Traditional detection methods and early CNN models are difficult to effectively deal with occluded 
or overlapping objects due to the limited local feature expression capability, and are prone to miss detection 
and false detection, while networks such as YOLO series and Faster R-CNN can hardly accurately distinguish 
overlapping objects (Dalal M., Mittal P., 2025). 
To improve the detection performance, the researchers introduced the attention mechanism to enhance 
the attention of occlusion area, deformable convolution to improve the ability of local complex morphology 
perception, combined with instance segmentation to achieve pixel-level differentiation, and utilized the 
Transformer architecture to enhance the model's understanding of the complex spatial relationship between 
branches, leaves, and fruits (Lin Y. et al., 2024; Singh P., Krishnamurthi R., 2024). Despite these 
advancements, occlusion and object overlap remain significant challenges affecting detection robustness. 
Future work should focus on optimizing model architectures and data augmentation strategies to improve 
detection performance in complex environments. 
The Impact of Light Variations 
Light variations (e.g., sunlight intensity, shadows, high light reflections, backlighting, and low light) are 
the key challenges affecting the stability and generalization ability of the detection model, especially more 

Vol. 79, No. 2 / 2026 
 
INMATEH - Agricultural Engineering 
 
344 
prominently in the open-air planting and greenhouse transparent coverage models, where the relationship 
between light and shadow is complex. Under strong sunlight, high light on the fruit surface leads to color 
distortion; low light or a cloudy environment reduces image contrast and blurs the boundary; under partial 
shade, the fruit is easily overwhelmed by shadows, which seriously affects the detection accuracy (Jiang C. et 
al., 2022). At the same time, the change of sunlight angle makes the fruit morphology and shadows constantly 
changing, which puts forward higher requirements on model robustness. 
Although the mainstream algorithms have a certain degree of light invariance, there are still performance 
fluctuations under extreme environments. The researcher has enhanced the light change data, introduced light 
enhancement broadening, adaptive exposure compensation, attention mechanism, and global modeling ability 
of the Transformer to alleviate the light and shadow interference (Dritsas E., 2025). However, there is still room 
for improvement in detection performance under strong dynamic lighting scenarios. 
The Interference of Complex Background 
Different planting environments pose great challenges to the generalization ability and robustness of 
detection algorithms (Dickinson S., 2009). The greenhouse environment can be controlled, with stable light, 
clean background, the algorithm is easy to achieve high accuracy; while the open-air environment has a 
complex background, changing light, messy plant branches and leaves, and large differences in fruit 
morphology, which often leads to the same model in the two scenarios, resulting in performance fluctuations. 
In addition, the color and maturity of fruits in the open-air environment are greatly affected by natural factors, 
and the differences between different batches and plots are significant, which can easily lead to misdetection 
and omission; different planting management methods also increase the difficulty of the model in adapting to 
changes in spatial layout. 
The generalization of the model can be improved to a certain extent through large-scale multi-scene 
datasets, cross-domain migration learning, style migration, scene adaptive mechanism, and fusion 
Transformer architecture. However, highly robust detection across scenes, regions, and species is still a 
challenge that needs to be broken (Edozie E. et al., 2025). 
 
DISCUSSION 
The Bright Future of Lightweight Networks 
In the field of fruit object detection, lightweight networks are becoming an important direction to promote 
the scale application of smart agriculture. The demand for automated devices (e.g., drones, mobile robots, 
etc.) in agricultural production has increased, and there is an urgent need for “high-performance + low-
computing power demand” detection models (Zhang P. et al., 2022). Although traditional high-precision 
networks have high accuracy, the models are large and energy-consuming, which are not suitable for low-
power devices. Lightweight network design is accelerating, striving to balance detection accuracy and 
operational efficiency. MobileNet, ShuffleNet, SqueezeNet, and other CNN lightweight backbone networks 
significantly reduce model complexity by means of deep separable convolution, channel rearrangement, etc. 
MobileNetV3, combined with the optimized design of NAS, has been widely used in tomato detection and 
grading (Tan Y. et al., 2025).  
The lightweight versions of the YOLO series (e.g., YOLOv4-Tiny, YOLOv5-Nano, YOLOv7-Tiny, etc.) 
can be efficiently deployed through pruning optimization and sparse training, with detection speeds up to 30-
60 FPS, and are suitable for both embedded and mobile applications (Li Z. et al., 2024). Lightweight 
Transformer architectures (MobileViT) are gradually applied to crop detection, combining global modeling 
capability and high efficiency, showing good prospects.  
The Potential of Transformer Architecture 
As a breakthrough DL architecture, Transformer has been extended from NLP to CV by virtue of its 
powerful global feature modeling capability through the self-attention mechanism, and has been widely used 
in object detection, yield estimation, and ripening grading, etc. Compared with CNNs, Transformers can 
effectively capture long-range dependencies in images and improve the robustness and accuracy of detection 
and grading under complex backgrounds, dense fruit distribution, occlusion, and multi-scale changes. 
Compared with CNNs, Transformers can effectively capture long-range dependencies in images and improve 
the robustness and accuracy of detection and grading in complex backgrounds, dense fruit distribution, 
occlusion, and multi-scale change scenes (Jackulin C., Murugavalli S., 2022; Zhao Z. et al., 2023). 
The DETR series simplifies the detection process and enhances the detection of small and occluded 
objects through the query matching mechanism without an anchor, and has already outperformed the 
traditional YOLO architecture in dense detection scenes. 

Vol. 79, No. 2 / 2026 
 
INMATEH - Agricultural Engineering 
 
345 
The Importance of Dataset Construction 
In the application of fruit detection, the construction of high-quality datasets is the core foundation to 
promote technological progress and industrialized applications. Despite the rapid development of DL and 
Transformer architecture, the lack of standardized data still restricts algorithm performance and generalization 
ability. Currently, tomato datasets are generally characterized by fragmented data, non-standardized 
annotations, and a lack of multimodal and multitasking data (Chen L. et al., 2020), leading the algorithms into 
the strange circle of “good results in the laboratory, but difficult to promote in the field”. 
The variable environment of agricultural scenarios and cultivation management measures leads to high 
costs and difficulty in data collection and labeling. Data enhancement and simulation data technology are 
becoming an important means to break through the data bottleneck and improve model robustness. Datasets 
with high-quality and uniform standards are an important factor in enhancing the generalization ability of 
models across cultivars and environments (Akbar J.U.M. et al., 2024). 
The Prospects of Edge Computing 
Edge computing has become an important trend as the demand for real-time, portability, and low cost 
in smart agriculture increases (Dhiman P. et al., 2023). Compared with traditional cloud computing, edge 
computing processes data directly on local devices such as cell phones, drones, and robots, reducing 
transmission latency, enhancing system real-time and stability, and adapting to complex and changing 
agricultural environments (Sathyadhas G.N. et al., 2025). 
Smartphones have become mainstream edge computing terminals due to their powerful computing 
power (GPU/ NPU), convenience, and low cost. With lightweight models (e.g., MobileNet, YOLOv5-Nano, 
MobileViT) and AI frameworks (TF Lite, N-CNN), cell phone apps can realize real-time fruit detection and 
grading, and support intelligent management in the field (Zheng H. et al., 2025). With the help of high-
performance edge equipment, lightweight Transformer, and NAS-optimized network, object detection 
technology will be available to everyone and everywhere, promoting smart agriculture to a new stage of 
universality and efficiency (Liu H.I. et al., 2024). 
 
CONLCUSIONS 
This paper systematically reviews the applications and significant advancements of CV and DL in fruit 
detection. Fruit detection technology has rapidly evolved from traditional algorithms to advanced architectures 
such as CNNs, YOLO, and DETR. However, this analysis shows that these technologies all face specific trade-
offs in practical applications. While traditional CNNs provide reliable feature extraction benchmarks, their 
computational redundancy often fails to meet the real-time requirements of mobile devices. Single-stage 
detectors like YOLO, by sacrificing some fine-grained accuracy, greatly improve inference speed, making them 
the preferred choice for edge computing; however, their performance tends to bottleneck when dealing with 
densely clustered or severely occluded small target fruits. Conversely, Transformer-based models (such as 
DETR), with their global attention mechanism, have demonstrated breakthrough accuracy in solving complex 
occlusion problems, but their large number of parameters and high computational cost remain the biggest 
obstacles to their widespread deployment on low-power agricultural devices. Therefore, at this juncture, finding 
the optimal balance between computational efficiency and the ability to understand complex scenarios is the 
core challenge currently facing practical applications. To overcome the limitations of the aforementioned single 
model, experts and scholars are exploring and attempting to integrate lightweight architecture with the 
Transformer mechanism to reshape the research paradigm in this field. This hybrid network design not only 
addresses the low-cost requirement for easy deployment at the edge but also ensures high detection accuracy 
in complex environments, making it an inevitable trend for the true implementation of smart agriculture. 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] 
Afonso, M., Fonteijn, H., Fiorentin, F.S., Lensink, D., Mooij, M., Faber, N., Polder, G., & Wehrens, R. 
(2020). Tomato fruit detection and counting in greenhouses using deep learning. Frontiers in plant 
science, 11, 571299.  
[2] 
Akbar, J.U.M., Kamarulzaman, S.F., Muzahid, A.J.M., Rahman, M.A., & Uddin, M. (2024). A 
comprehensive review on deep learning assisted computer vision techniques for smart greenhouse 
agriculture. IEEE Access, 12, 4485-4522.  
[3] 
Al-Mashhadani, Z., & Chandrasekaran, B. (2020). Autonomous ripeness detection using image 
processing for an agricultural robotic system. 2020 11th IEEE Annual Ubiquitous Computing, Electronics 
& Mobile Communication Conference (UEMCON),  

Vol. 79, No. 2 / 2026 
 
INMATEH - Agricultural Engineering 
 
346 
[4] 
Bai, Y., Yu, J., Yang, S., & Ning, J. (2024). An improved YOLO algorithm for detecting flowers and fruits 
on strawberry seedlings. Biosystems engineering, 237.  
[5] 
Bello, R.-W., Owolawi, P.A., van Wyk, E.A., & Tu, C. (2025). Object Detection Algorithms for Digital 
Imaging Applications: A Review. Available at SSRN 5236924.  
[6] 
Bochkovskiy, A., Wang, C.-Y., & Liao, H.-Y.M. (2020). Yolov4: Optimal speed and accuracy of object 
detection. arXiv preprint arXiv:2004.10934.  
[7] 
Burges, C.J. (1998). A tutorial on support vector machines for pattern recognition. Data mining and 
knowledge discovery, 2(2), 121-167.  
[8] 
Cai, Z., & Vasconcelos, N. (2018). Cascade r-cnn: Delving into high quality object detection. 
Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition,  
[9] 
Carion, N., Massa, F., Synnaeve, G., Usunier, N., Kirillov, A., & Zagoruyko, S. (2020). End-to-end object 
detection with transformers. European conference on computer vision,  
[10] 
Chen, K., Pang, J., Wang, J., Xiong, Y., Li, X., Sun, S., Feng, W., Liu, Z., Shi, J., & Ouyang, W. (2019). 
Hybrid task cascade for instance segmentation. Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer 
vision and pattern recognition,  
[11] 
Chen, L., Penney, D., & Jiménez, D. (2020). AI for Computer Architecture: Principles, Practice, and 
Prospects. Synthesis Lectures on Computer Architecture, 15(5), 1-142.  
[12] 
Cong, P., Wang, K., Liang, J., Xu, Y., Li, T., & Xue, B. (2025). TQVGModel: Tomato Quality Visual 
Grading and Instance Segmentation Deep Learning Model for Complex Scenarios. Agronomy, 15(6), 1273.  
[13] 
Dai, J., Li, Y., He, K., & Sun, J. (2016). R-fcn: Object detection via region-based fully convolutional 
networks. Advances in neural information processing systems, 29.  
[14] 
Dalal, M., & Mittal, P. (2025). A Systematic Review of Deep Learning-Based Object Detection in 
Agriculture: Methods, Challenges, and Future Directions. Computers, Materials & Continua, 84(1), 57-
91. https://doi.org/10.32604/cmc.2025.066056  
[15] 
Dalal, N., & Triggs, B. (2005). Histograms of oriented gradients for human detection. 2005 IEEE 
computer society conference on computer vision and pattern recognition (CVPR'05),  
[16] 
Devlet, A. (2021). Modern agriculture and challenges. Frontiers in Life Sciences and Related 
Technologies, 2(1), 21-29.  
[17] 
Dhiman, P., Kaur, A., Hamid, Y., Alabdulkreem, E., Elmannai, H., & Ababneh, N. (2023). Smart Disease 
Detection System for Citrus Fruits Using Deep Learning with Edge Computing. Sustainability, 15(5), 
4576. https://doi.org/10.3390/su15054576  
[18] 
Dickinson, S. (2009). The Evolution of Object Categorization and the Challenge of Image Abstraction. 
Object 
Categorization: 
Computer 
and 
Human 
Vision 
Perspectives. 
https://doi.org/10.1017/CBO9780511635465.002  
[19] 
Dosovitskiy, A., Beyer, L., Kolesnikov, A., Weissenborn, D., Zhai, X., Unterthiner, T., Dehghani, M., 
Minderer, M., Heigold, G., & Gelly, S. (2020). An image is worth 16x16 words: Transformers for image 
recognition at scale. arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.11929.  
[20] 
Dritsas, E. (2025). A Comprehensive Survey of Machine Learning Techniques and Models for Object 
Detection. Sensors, 25.  
[21] 
Duan, K., Bai, S., Xie, L., Qi, H., Huang, Q., & Tian, Q. (2019). Centernet: Keypoint triplets for object 
detection. Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF international conference on computer vision,  
[22] 
Edozie, E., Shuaibu, A.N., John, U.K., & Sadiq, B.O. (2025). Comprehensive review of recent 
developments in visual object detection based on deep learning. Artificial Intelligence Review, 58(9).  
[23] 
Fan, P., Zheng, C., Sun, J., Chen, D., Lang, G., & Li, Y. (2024). Enhanced real-time target detection for 
picking robots using lightweight centernet in complex orchard environments. Agriculture, 14(7), 1059.  
[24] 
Freund, Y., & Schapire, R.E. (1995). A desicion-theoretic generalization of on-line learning and an 
application to boosting. European conference on computational learning theory,  
[25] 
Fu, C.-Y., Liu, W., Ranga, A., Tyagi, A., & Berg, A.C. (2017). Dssd: Deconvolutional single shot detector. 
arXiv preprint arXiv:1701.06659.  
[26] 
Ganesh, P., Volle, K., Burks, T., & Mehta, S. (2019). Deep orange: Mask R-CNN based orange detection 
and segmentation. IFAC-PapersOnLine, 52(30), 70-75.  
[27] 
Ge, Z., Liu, S., Wang, F., Li, Z., & Sun, J. (2021). Yolox: Exceeding yolo series in 2021. arXiv preprint 
arXiv:2107.08430.  
[28] 
Girshick, R. (2015). Fast r-cnn. Proceedings of the IEEE international conference on computer vision,  
[29] 
Girshick, R., Donahue, J., Darrell, T., & Malik, J. (2014). Rich feature hierarchies for accurate object 

Vol. 79, No. 2 / 2026 
 
INMATEH - Agricultural Engineering 
 
347 
detection and semantic segmentation. Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and 
pattern recognition,  
[30] 
Girshick, R., Donahue, J., Darrell, T., & Malik, J. (2015). Region-based convolutional networks for 
accurate object detection and segmentation. IEEE transactions on pattern analysis and machine 
intelligence, 38(1), 142-158.  
[31] 
Gong, X., & Wu, Q. Fruit Detection Methods Based on Deep Learning in Agricultural Planting: A 
Systematic Literature Review. IEEE Access, 13.  
[32] 
Gupta, S., & Tripathi, A.K. (2024). Fruit and vegetable disease detection and classification: Recent trends, 
challenges, and future opportunities. Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence, 133, 108260.  
[33] 
He, K., Gkioxari, G., Dollár, P., & Girshick, R. (2017). Mask r-cnn. Proceedings of the IEEE international 
conference on computer vision,  
[34] 
He, K., Zhang, X., Ren, S., & Sun, J. (2016). Deep residual learning for image recognition. Proceedings 
of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition,  
[35] 
Hernández, G.A.A., Olguin, J.C., Vasquez, J.I., Uriarte, A.V., & Torres, M.C.V. (2023). Detection of 
tomato ripening stages using yolov3-tiny. arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.00164.  
[36] 
Hou, X., Liu, M., Zhang, S., Wei, P., Chen, B., & Lan, X. (2024). Relation detr: Exploring explicit position 
relation prior for object detection. European Conference on Computer Vision,  
[37] 
Hu, J., Shen, L., & Sun, G. (2018). Squeeze-and-excitation networks. Proceedings of the IEEE 
conference on computer vision and pattern recognition,  
[38] 
Huang, G., Liu, Z., Van Der Maaten, L., & Weinberger, K.Q. (2017). Densely connected convolutional 
networks. Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition,  
[39] 
Huang, L., Yang, Y., Deng, Y., & Yu, Y. (2015). Densebox: Unifying landmark localization with end to end 
object detection. arXiv preprint arXiv:1509.04874.  
[40] 
Huang, Z., Zhang, X., Wang, H., Wei, H., Zhang, Y., & Zhou, G. (2024). Pear fruit detection model in 
natural environment based on lightweight transformer architecture. Agriculture, 15(1), 24.  
[41] 
Jackulin, C., & Murugavalli, S. (2022). A comprehensive review on detection of plant disease using 
machine learning and deep learning approaches. 
Measurement: Sensors, 24, 100441. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.measen.2022.100441  
[42] 
Ji, W., Zhao, D., Cheng, F., Xu, B., Zhang, Y., & Wang, J. (2012). Automatic recognition vision system 
guided for apple harvesting robot. Computers & Electrical Engineering, 38(5), 1186-1195.  
[43] 
Jiang, C., Ren, H., Ye, X., Zhu, J., Zeng, H., Nan, Y., Sun, M., Ren, X., & Huo, H. (2022). Object detection 
from UAV thermal infrared images and videos using YOLO models. International Journal of Applied 
Earth Observation and Geoinformation, 112, 102912. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jag.2022.102912  
[44] 
Jocher, G., Chaurasia, A., Stoken, A., Borovec, J., Kwon, Y., Michael, K., Fang, J., Wong, C., Yifu, Z., & 
Montes, D. (2022). ultralytics/yolov5: v6. 2-yolov5 classification models, apple m1, reproducibility, 
clearml and deci. ai integrations. Zenodo.  
[45] 
Krizhevsky, A., Sutskever, I., & Hinton, G.E. (2012). Imagenet classification with deep convolutional 
neural networks. Advances in neural information processing systems, 25.  
[46] 
Krizhevsky, A., Sutskever, I., & Hinton, G.E. (2017). ImageNet classification with deep convolutional 
neural networks. Communications of the ACM, 60(6), 84-90.  
[47] 
Law, H., & Deng, J. (2018). Cornernet: Detecting objects as paired keypoints. Proceedings of the 
European conference on computer vision (ECCV),  
[48] 
Law, H., Teng, Y., Russakovsky, O., & Deng, J. (2019). Cornernet-lite: Efficient keypoint based object 
detection. arXiv preprint arXiv:1904.08900.  
[49] 
Li, C., Li, L., Jiang, H., Weng, K., Geng, Y., Li, L., Ke, Z., Li, Q., Cheng, M., & Nie, W. (2022). YOLOv6: 
A single-stage object detection framework for industrial applications. arXiv preprint arXiv:2209.02976.  
[50] 
Li, F., Zhang, H., Liu, S., Guo, J., Ni, L.M., & Zhang, L. (2022). Dn-detr: Accelerate detr training by 
introducing query denoising. Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern 
recognition 
[51] 
Li, R., Ji, Z., Hu, S., Huang, X., Yang, J., & Li, W. (2023). Tomato maturity recognition model based on 
improved YOLOv5 in greenhouse. Agronomy, 13(2), 603.  
[52] 
Li, Y., Chen, Y., Wang, N., & Zhang, Z. (2019). Scale-aware trident networks for object detection. 
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF international conference on computer vision,  
[53] 
Li, Z., Wang, J., Gao, G., Lei, Y., Zhao, C., Wang, Y., Bai, H., Liu, Y., Guo, X., & Li, Q. (2024). SGSNet: 
a lightweight deep learning model for strawberry growth stage detection. Front Plant Sci, 15, 1491706. 

Vol. 79, No. 2 / 2026 
 
INMATEH - Agricultural Engineering 
 
348 
https://doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2024.1491706  
[54] 
Lin, T.-Y., Dollár, P., Girshick, R., He, K., Hariharan, B., & Belongie, S. (2017). Feature pyramid networks 
for object detection. Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition,  
[55] 
Lin, Y., Huang, Z., Liang, Y., Liu, Y., & Jiang, W. (2024). AG-YOLO: A Rapid Citrus Fruit Detection 
Algorithm 
with 
Global 
Context 
Fusion. 
Agriculture, 
14(1), 
114. 
https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture14010114  
[56] 
Liu, H.I., Galindo, M., Xie, H., Wong, L.K., Shuai, H.H., Li, Y.H., & Cheng, W.H. (2024). Lightweight 
Deep Learning for Resource-Constrained Environments: A Survey. ACM Computing Surveys, 56(10).  
[57] 
Liu, M., Jia, W., Wang, Z., Niu, Y., Yang, X., & Ruan, C. (2022). An accurate detection and segmentation 
model of obscured green fruits. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 197, 106984.  
[58] 
Liu, Q., Meng, H., Zhao, R., Ma, X., Zhang, T., & Jia, W. (2024). Green apple detector based on 
optimized deformable detection transformer. Agriculture, 15(1), 75.  
[59] 
Liu, S., Li, F., Zhang, H., Yang, X., Qi, X., Su, H., Zhu, J., & Zhang, L. (2022). Dab-detr: Dynamic anchor 
boxes are better queries for detr. arXiv preprint arXiv:2201.12329.  
[60] 
Liu, W., Anguelov, D., Erhan, D., Szegedy, C., Reed, S., Fu, C.-Y., & Berg, A.C. (2016). Ssd: Single shot 
multibox detector. Computer Vision–ECCV 2016: 14th European Conference, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands, October 11–14, 2016, Proceedings, Part I 14,  
[61] 
Liu, Z., Mao, H., Wu, C.-Y., Feichtenhofer, C., Darrell, T., & Xie, S. (2022). A convnet for the 2020s. 
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition,  
[62] 
Lowe, D.G. (2004). Distinctive image features from scale-invariant keypoints. International journal of 
computer vision, 60, 91-110.  
[63] 
Luo, Q., Wu, C., Wu, G., & Li, W. (2024). A Small Target Strawberry Recognition Method Based on 
Improved YOLOv8n Model. IEEE Access, 12.  
[64] 
Matszangosz, K.K., & Wendt, M. (2024). 4-torsion classes in the integral cohomology of oriented 
Grassmannians.  
[65] 
Mehra, T., Kumar, V., & Gupta, P. (2016). Maturity and disease detection in tomato using computer 
vision. 2016 Fourth international conference on parallel, distributed and grid computing (PDGC),  
[66] 
Meng, D., Chen, X., Fan, Z., Zeng, G., Li, H., Yuan, Y., Sun, L., & Wang, J. (2021). Conditional detr for 
fast training convergence. Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF international conference on computer vision,  
[67] 
Mirhaji, H., Soleymani, M., Asakereh, A., & Mehdizadeh, S.A. (2021). Fruit detection and load estimation 
of an orange orchard using the YOLO models through simple approaches in different imaging and 
illumination conditions. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 191, 106533.  
[68] 
O'shea, K., & Nash, R. (2015). An introduction to convolutional neural networks. arXiv preprint 
arXiv:1511.08458.  
[69] 
Oquab, M., Darcet, T., Moutakanni, T., Vo, H., Szafraniec, M., Khalidov, V., Fernandez, P., Haziza, D., 
Massa, F., & El-Nouby, A. (2023). Dinov2: Learning robust visual features without supervision. arXiv 
preprint arXiv:2304.07193.  
[70] 
Qiao, S., Chen, L.-C., & Yuille, A. (2021). Detectors: Detecting objects with recursive feature pyramid 
and switchable atrous convolution. Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and 
pattern recognition,  
[71] 
Qin, Z., Li, Z., Zhang, Z., Bao, Y., Yu, G., Peng, Y., & Sun, J. (2019). ThunderNet: Towards real-time 
generic object detection on mobile devices. Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF international conference on 
computer vision,  
[72] 
Rashwan, A., Kalra, A., & Poupart, P. (2019). Matrix Nets: A new deep architecture for object detection. 
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF international conference on computer vision workshops,  
[73] 
Redmon, J., Divvala, S., Girshick, R., & Farhadi, A. (2016). You only look once: Unified, real-time object 
detection. Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition,  
[74] 
Redmon, J., & Farhadi, A. (2017). YOLO9000: better, faster, stronger. Proceedings of the IEEE 
conference on computer vision and pattern recognition,  
[75] Redmon, J., & Farhadi, A. (2018). Yolov3: An incremental improvement. arXiv preprint arXiv:1804.02767.  
[76] 
Ren, S., He, K., Girshick, R., & Sun, J. (2015). Faster r-cnn: Towards real-time object detection with 
region proposal networks. Advances in neural information processing systems, 28.  
[77] 
Sathyadhas, G.N., Gladston, A., & Nehemiah, K.H. (2025). LwSANet: Light Weight Self-Attention 
Network Model to Recognize Fruits from Images. Traitement du Signal, 42(1).  
[78] 
Si, Y., Liu, G., & Feng, J. (2015). Location of apples in trees using stereoscopic vision. Computers and 

Vol. 79, No. 2 / 2026 
 
INMATEH - Agricultural Engineering 
 
349 
Electronics in Agriculture, 112, 68-74.  
[79] 
Simonyan, K., & Zisserman, A. (2014). Very deep convolutional networks for large-scale image 
recognition. arXiv preprint arXiv:1409.1556.  
[80] 
Singh, P., & Krishnamurthi, R. (2024). IoT-based real-time object detection system for crop protection 
and agriculture field security. Journal of Real-Time Image Processing, 21(4), 1-19.  
[81] 
Song, H., Jiang, M., Wang, Y., & Song, L. (2021a). Efficient detection method for young apples based 
on the fusion of convolutional neural network and visual attention mechanism. Nongye Gongcheng 
Xuebao/Transactions 
of 
the 
Chinese 
Society 
of Agricultural 
Engineering, 
37, 
297-303. 
https://doi.org/10.11975/j.issn.1002-6819.2021.09.034  
[82] 
Song, H., Sun, D., Chun, S., Jampani, V., Han, D., Heo, B., Kim, W., & Yang, M.-H. (2021b). Vidt: An 
efficient and effective fully transformer-based object detector. arXiv preprint arXiv:2110.03921.  
[83] 
Sun, P., Zhang, R., Jiang, Y., Kong, T., Xu, C., Zhan, W., Tomizuka, M., Li, L., Yuan, Z., & Wang, C. 
(2021). Sparse r-cnn: End-to-end object detection with learnable proposals. Proceedings of the 
IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition,  
[84] 
Sun, Z., Cao, S., Yang, Y., & Kitani, K.M. (2021). Rethinking transformer-based set prediction for object 
detection. Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF international conference on computer vision,  
[85] 
Szegedy, C., Ioffe, S., Vanhoucke, V., & Alemi, A. (2017). Inception-v4, inception-resnet and the impact 
of residual connections on learning. Proceedings of the AAAI conference on artificial intelligence,  
[86] 
Tan, M., & Le, Q. (2019). Efficientnet: Rethinking model scaling for convolutional neural networks. 
International conference on machine learning,  
[87] 
Tan, M., Pang, R., & Le, Q.V. (2020). Efficientdet: Scalable and efficient object detection. Proceedings 
of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition,  
[88] 
Tan, Y., Liu, X., Zhang, J., Wang, Y., & Hu, Y. (2025). A Review of Research on Fruit and Vegetable 
Picking 
Robots 
Based 
on 
Deep 
Learning. 
Sensors 
(Basel), 
25(12), 
3677. 
https://doi.org/10.3390/s25123677  
[89] 
Tang, Z., Fang, L., Sun, S., Gong, Y., & Li, Q. (2025). ML-DETR: Multiscale-Lite Detection Transformer 
for identification of mature cherry tomatoes. IEEE Transactions on Instrumentation and Measurement.  
[90] 
Teng, H., Sun, F., Wu, H., Lv, D., Lv, Q., Feng, F., Yang, S., & Li, X. (2025). DS-YOLO: A Lightweight 
Strawberry Fruit Detection Algorithm. Agronomy, 15(9), 2226.  
[91] 
Tian, Z., Shen, C., Chen, H., & He, T. (2019). Fcos: Fully convolutional one-stage object detection. 
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF international conference on computer vision,  
[92] 
Wang, A., Chen, H., Liu, L., Chen, K., Lin, Z., & Han, J. (2024a). Yolov10: Real-time end-to-end object 
detection. Advances in neural information processing systems, 37, 107984-108011.  
[93] 
Wang, A., Qian, W., Li, A., Xu, Y., Hu, J., Xie, Y., & Zhang, L. (2024b). NVW-YOLOv8s: An improved 
YOLOv8s network for real-time detection and segmentation of tomato fruits at different ripeness stages. 
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 219, 108833.  
[94] Wang, C.-Y., Bochkovskiy, A., & Liao, H.-Y.M. (2021). Scaled-yolov4: Scaling cross stage partial network. 
Proceedings of the IEEE/cvf conference on computer vision and pattern recognition,  
[95] 
Wang, C.-Y., Bochkovskiy, A., & Liao, H.-Y.M. (2023). YOLOv7: Trainable bag-of-freebies sets new 
state-of-the-art for real-time object detectors. Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer 
vision and pattern recognition,  
[96] 
Wang, C.-Y., Liao, H.-Y.M., Wu, Y.-H., Chen, P.-Y., Hsieh, J.-W., & Yeh, I.-H. (2020). CSPNet: A new 
backbone that can enhance learning capability of CNN. Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on 
computer vision and pattern recognition workshops,  
[97] 
Wang, C.-Y., Yeh, I.-H., & Mark Liao, H.-Y. (2024). Yolov9: Learning what you want to learn using 
programmable gradient information. European conference on computer vision,  
[98] 
Wang, P., Niu, T., & He, D. (2021). Tomato young fruits detection method under near color background 
based on improved faster R-CNN with attention mechanism. Agriculture, 11(11), 1059.  
[99] 
Wang, Y., Deng, H., Wang, Y., Song, L., Ma, B., & Song, H. (2024). CenterNet-LW-SE net: integrating 
lightweight CenterNet and channel attention mechanism for the detection of Camellia oleifera fruits. 
Multimedia Tools and Applications, 83(26), 68585-68603.  
[100] Wang, Y., Zhang, X., Yang, T., & Sun, J. (2022). Anchor detr: Query design for transformer-based 
detector. Proceedings of the AAAI conference on artificial intelligence,  
[101] Wu, Z., An, R., Zhou, L., & Che, X. (2024). Recognition of Tomato Fruit Maturity and Fruit Stems Based 
on Improved YOLOv8. Proceedings of the International Conference on Image Processing, Machine 

Vol. 79, No. 2 / 2026 
 
INMATEH - Agricultural Engineering 
 
350 
Learning and Pattern Recognition,  
[102] Wu, Z., Zou, X., Zhou, W., & Huang, J. (2022). YOLOX-PAI: an improved YOLOX, stronger and faster 
than YOLOv6. arXiv preprint arXiv:2208.13040.  
[103] Xu, P., Fang, N., Liu, N., Lin, F., Yang, S., & Ning, J. (2022). Visual recognition of cherry tomatoes in 
plant factory based on improved deep instance segmentation. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 
197, 106991.  
[104] Yan, Z., Zhang, H., & Li, L. (2024). An Integrated Target Recognition Method Based on Improved Faster-
RCNN for Apple Detection, Counting, Localization, and Quality Estimation. 2024 IEEE 4th International 
Conference on Power, Electronics and Computer Applications (ICPECA),  
[105] Yao, Z., Ai, J., Li, B., & Zhang, C. (2021). Efficient detr: improving end-to-end object detector with dense 
prior. arXiv preprint arXiv:2104.01318.  
[106] Zhang, F., Chen, Z., Ali, S., Yang, N., Fu, S., & Zhang, Y. (2023). Multi-class detection of cherry tomatoes 
using improved Yolov4-tiny model. International Journal of Agricultural and Biological Engineering, 16(2), 
225-231.  
[107] Zhang, H., Li, F., Liu, S., Zhang, L., Su, H., Zhu, J., Ni, L.M., & Shum, H.-Y. (2022). Dino: Detr with 
improved denoising anchor boxes for end-to-end object detection. arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.03605.  
[108] Zhang, J., Xie, J., Zhang, F., Gao, J., Yang, C., Song, C., Rao, W., & Zhang, Y. (2024). Greenhouse 
tomato detection and pose classification algorithm based on improved YOLOv5. Computers and 
Electronics in Agriculture, 216, 108519.  
[109] Zhang, P., Liu, X., Yuan, J., & Liu, C. (2022). YOLO5-spear: A robust and real-time spear tips locator by 
improving image augmentation and lightweight network for selective harvesting robot of white 
asparagus. Biosystems engineering(218-), 218.  
[110] Zhang, S., Wang, X., Wang, J., Pang, J., Lyu, C., Zhang, W., Luo, P., & Chen, K. (2023). Dense distinct 
query for end-to-end object detection. Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision 
and pattern recognition,  
[111] Zhang, X. (2025). PG-DETR: A Lightweight and Efficient Detection Transformer for Early Stage 
Pomegranate Fruit Detection. IEEE Access.  
[112] Zhao, C., Sun, Y., Wang, W., Chen, Q., Ding, E., Yang, Y., & Wang, J. (2024). Ms-detr: Efficient detr 
training with mixed supervision. Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and 
pattern recognition,  
[113] Zhao, K., & Yan, W.Q. (2021). Fruit detection from digital images using CenterNet. International 
symposium on geometry and vision,  
[114] Zhao, M., Cui, B., Yu, Y., Zhang, X., Xu, J., Shi, F., & Zhao, L. (2025). Intelligent Detection of Tomato 
Ripening in Natural Environments Using YOLO-DGS. Sensors, 25(9), 2664.  
[115] Zhao, R., Guan, Y., Lu, Y., Ji, Z., Yin, X., & Jia, W. (2023). FCOS-LSC: A novel model for green fruit 
detection in a complex orchard environment. Plant Phenomics, 5, 0069.  
[116] Zhao, Y., Lv, W., Xu, S., Wei, J., Wang, G., Dang, Q., Liu, Y., & Chen, J. (2024). Detrs beat yolos on 
real-time object detection. Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern 
recognition,  
[117] Zhao, Z., Hao, K., & Liu, K, Zheng, T, Xu, J, Cui, S, He, C, Zhou, J, Zhao, G. (2023). MCANet: 
Hierarchical cross-fusion lightweight transformer based on multi-ConvHead attention for object 
detection. Image and vision computing, 136(Aug.), 104715.104711-104715.104714.  
[118] Zheng, H., Liu, C., Zhong, L., Wang, J., Huang, J., Lin, F., Ma, X., & Tan, S. (2025). An android-
smartphone application for rice panicle detection and rice growth stage recognition using a lightweight 
YOLO network. Front Plant Sci, 16, 1561632. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2025.1561632  
[119] Zhou, X., Wang, D., & Krähenbühl, P. (2019a). Objects as points. arXiv preprint arXiv:1904.07850.  
[120] Zhou, X., Zhuo, J., & Krahenbuhl, P. (2019b). Bottom-up object detection by grouping extreme and 
center points. Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition,  
[121] Zhu, X., Su, W., Lu, L., Li, B., Wang, X., & Dai, J. (2020). Deformable detr: Deformable transformers for 
end-to-end object detection. arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.04159.  
[122] Zu, L., Zhao, Y., Liu, J., Su, F., Zhang, Y., & Liu, P. (2021). Detection and segmentation of mature green 
tomatoes based on mask R-CNN with automatic image acquisition approach. Sensors, 21(23), 7842.  
 
