IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 12, NO. 23, 1 DECEMBER 2025
49083
IoT-Based Precision Litchi Tracking and Counting
Method Using Gated Metrics
Jianqiang Lu
, Senior Member, IEEE, Guoqing Bao
, Xiaoling Deng
, Xiongzhe Han, Yubin Lan
,
and Haiwei Wu
Abstract—Accurate and efﬁcient multiobject tracking and
counting methods are designed to address the challenges of
counting in complex environments. This study presents a novel
tracking and counting method called LitchiCount, integrating the
multiobject tracking detection model LitchiDet with a counting
module to address issues, such as missing counts, repeated counts,
and the lack of interpretability commonly found in traditional
machine learning approaches. The method is designed with the
guidance of the visual interpretable method Grad-CAM++, as
well as the experimental validation method based on important
features. To improve the detection accuracy of small targets
under dense occlusion and overlapping, we proposed LitchiDet,
which combines a small target detection layer, a decoupled
fully connected attention with C3Ghost module (DFC-C3Ghost),
and an efﬁcient layer aggregation network block (ELANB).
Our counting module improves target tracking accuracy and
robustness in dense occlusion scenes while reducing counting
errors from scene changes. We propose a distance-generalized
intersection over union association metric using a gating mech-
anism (DG-GM) and an AreaC counting strategy tailored to
ﬁeld intricate scenes. Finally, to enhance Internet of Things (IoT)
deployment, we migrated LitchiCount to the Jetson AGX Xavier
platform and optimized the model with TensorRT, signiﬁcantly
improving computational efﬁciency and real-time performance,
particularly in resource-limited IoT environments, meeting real-
time and low-power demands. The results demonstrated that our
proposed method outperforms state-of-the-art detection models,
as well as DeepSort-based counting methods in detection and
counting. Importantly, by applying our method to the scenario
of detecting and counting litchi from multiple perspectives in
Received 12 February 2025; revised 18 March 2025; accepted 12
April 2025. Date of publication 15 April 2025; date of current version
20 November 2025. This work was supported in part by the Key-
Area Research and Development Program of Guangdong Province under
Grant 2023B0202090001; in part by the Key Research and Development
Program of Guangzhou under Grant 2023B03J1392; in part by The 111
Project under Grant D18019; in part by the Open Project Program of
Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Agricultural Artiﬁcial Intelligence
under Grant GDKL-AAI-2023007; in part by the Open Fund of State Key
Laboratory of Agricultural Equipment Technology, South China Agricultural
University under Grant SKLAET-202412; and in part by The National Key
Research and Development Plan Project under Grant 2023YFD2000200.
(Corresponding authors: Yubin Lan; Xiongzhe Han.)
Jianqiang Lu, Xiaoling Deng, and Yubin Lan are with the College of
Electronic Engineering (College of Artiﬁcial Intelligence), South China
Agricultural University, Guangzhou 510642, China (e-mail: ljq@scau.edu.cn;
dengxl@scau.edu.cn; ylan@scau.edu.cn).
Guoqing
Bao
and
Haiwei
Wu
are
with
the
College
of
Electronic
Engineering
(College
of
Artiﬁcial
Intelligence),
South
China
Agricultural
University,
Guangzhou
510642,
China
(e-mail:
20233172009@stu.scau.edu.cn; whw@stu.scau.edu.cn).
Xiongzhe Han is with the Department of Agricultural and Biological
Engineering, Mississippi State University, Starkville, MA 39762 USA,
and also with the Department of Biosystems Engineering, Kangwon
National University, Chuncheon 24341, South Korea (e-mail: hanxiongzhe@
kangwon.ac.kr).
Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/JIOT.2025.3561130
a ﬁeld setting, we achieved low-repetitive and reliable counting,
demonstrating the robust performance of this approach in real-
world applications.
Index Terms—Fruits counting, interpretability, Litchi, multiple
object tracking (MOT), object detection, real-time.
I. INTRODUCTION
A
CCURATE yield estimation is crucial for improving
the economic beneﬁts of orchards. With the rapid
development of agricultural Internet of Things (IoT), the
integration of IoT-based data acquisition devices with deep
learning algorithms has become a promising research trend.
This study aims to develop a high-precision and interpretable
litchi counting method by combining key agricultural IoT
technologies, such as sensors, cameras, and edge computing
platforms, to address challenges in data collection, analysis,
and processing. By seamlessly integrating these technologies,
the method signiﬁcantly improves counting accuracy and com-
putational efﬁciency, effectively overcoming common issues
such as missing counts, repeated counts [1], and environmental
constraints that arise in real-world ﬁeld conditions.
In recent years, numerous methods have been proposed
for fruit detection using machine learning techniques [2].
While the machine learning-based fruit detection studies have
demonstrated satisfactory detection performance, detecting
fruit in real-world ﬁeld environments presents signiﬁcantly
more challenging and intricate conditions. This often leads to
a signiﬁcant number of missed detections and false positives.
Furthermore, there are relatively few optimizations speciﬁ-
cally aimed at deploying on IoT edge devices with limited
storage space and computing power, which poses challenges
for achieving real-time operation and efﬁcient data process-
ing in resource-constrained IoT environments. A number of
regression counting methods for fruit yield estimation, crop
counting, etc., have also been proposed [3], [4]. Although
these counting methods can provide approximate fruit count
results within an acceptable margin of error, they suffer from
the loss of location information for each individual fruit target.
This limitation hinders the ability to accurately associate the
same target and often resulting in missing counting and repeat
counting.
On the other hand, the rapid development of agricultural
IoT, artiﬁcial intelligence, and object tracking technologies
has sparked growing interest in utilizing deep learning-
based methods for fruit detection and counting [5], [6], [7].
2327-4662 c⃝2025 IEEE. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining, and training of artiﬁcial intelligence
and similar technologies. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:45:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

49084
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 12, NO. 23, 1 DECEMBER 2025
There are two main methods for fruit detection. The ﬁrst
is one-stage target detection models, such as SSD [8], Yolo
series [9], etc. They show strong robustness in night and
dense scenes [10], [11], [12]. The second is two-stage target
detection models, such as Faster R-CNN, Mask-RCNN and so
on [13], [14], [15]. Fruit counting methods primarily include
single-view or dual-view detection and counting [16], [17],
LIDAR and thermal imaging counting [18], [19], and count-
ing by object tracking [20], [21], [22]. Recent advances in
multiobject tracking (MOT) have demonstrated particular
effectiveness in handling occlusions. For instance, Viveros
Escamilla et al. [59] proposed a fruit counting system based on
YOLOv5 for detection and DeepSORT for tracking, achieving
85.7% accuracy in challenging greenhouse conditions through
temporal association. Similarly, Feng et al. [60] developed
a dynamic counting method using YOLOv7-tiny and an
improved Hungarian algorithm, enhancing fruit association
accuracy to 81.02% in highly occluded orchards. Other track-
ing improvements include cascade reﬁnement [23], integration
of semantic segmentation modules [24], and optimization of
cross-modal fusion [25].
Despite the strong performance demonstrated by the deep
learning-based methods, challenges, such as frequent tracking
identity (ID) switches, repeat counting, and missed detec-
tions still arise in diverse scenarios, particularly when litchi
targets are located at the edge of the ﬁeld of view (FOV)
due to limitations in video acquisition. More importantly,
the majority of deep learning models exhibit high com-
plexity, lack transparency, and interpretability, which poses
challenges for individuals in comprehending the decision-
making mechanisms of the models and enhancing their
performance [26], [27].
Although existing fruit detection and counting methods have
achieved some success, they still face numerous challenges in
real agricultural environments. Traditional machine learning
methods perform poorly in complex lighting conditions, dense
occlusion, and small object detection, leading to high false
negative and false positive rates. While current deep learn-
ing methods have improved detection accuracy, their model
complexity is too high to be deployed for real-time opera-
tion on resource-constrained IoT edge devices. Furthermore,
existing multiobject tracking methods are prone to issues,
such as ID switching and duplicate counting, when targets
frequently enter and exit the FOV or exhibit nonlinear motion,
and they lack effective target association strategies. These
limitations signiﬁcantly restrict the feasibility and reliability of
real-time yield estimation in precision agriculture. Therefore,
the development of a lightweight, high-accuracy, and robust
real-time litchi counting method is of great theoretical and
practical signiﬁcance for enhancing orchard economic beneﬁts
and advancing the practical application of agricultural IoT
technologies.
To address the aforementioned issues of fruit detection
and counting, We propose a fast video counting method (as
shown in Fig. 1) for dense ﬁeld scenes. Speciﬁcally, our main
contributions are summarized as follows.
1) The ﬁrst attempt to work on litchi fruit video counting
from multiple sides and achieve robust tracking and
counting performance.
2) We use Grad-CAM++ and the experimental validation
method based on important features to identify the
reasons for the poor performance of litchi detection in
the ﬁeld and determined the features that contribute
more signiﬁcantly to data association decisions. Based
on these ﬁndings, we develop a counting method that
signiﬁcantly reduces repeat counting, thereby improving
the accuracy and interpretability of litchi counting.
3) We
present
LitchiDet,
a
lightweight
model
for
litchi detection. The introduction of a small target
detection
layer
signiﬁcantly
improves
the
detec-
tion
accuracy
of
small
litchi
in
dense
scenes.
The decoupled fully connected attention with the
C3Ghost (DFC-C3Ghost) module, which incorporates a
hardware-efﬁcient attention mechanism, captures long-
range pixel dependencies, thereby enhancing model
representation and highlighting ﬁne litchi features. The
efﬁcient layer aggregation network block (ELANB)
module improves gradient ﬂow and delivers robust
performance in scenarios involving occlusion and over-
lap. Compared to existing fruit detection models,
LitchiDet not only achieves higher detection accuracy
but also maintains efﬁcient performance on hardware
devices.
4) A
tracking
and
counting
module
is
designed.
Speciﬁcally, the distance-generalized IoU based on the
gating mechanism (DG-GM) is proposed to signiﬁcantly
reduce the error caused by fruit ID switching and
further improve the tracking association [55] accuracy
under dense scenes. Then, an area counting strategy
(AreaC) based on ﬁeld litchi scenes is developed,
which effectively mitigates the occurrences of missing
and repeat counting in video sequences under varying
scene.
5) The experiments, compared with existing DeepSort-
based tracking and counting methods, demonstrate that
the proposed approach outperforms in both tracking
accuracy and counting reliability. To further enhance
real-time processing capabilities, the LitchiCount model
has been successfully deployed on the Jetson AGX
Xavier platform. By leveraging the TensorRT optimizer,
the detection and tracking components have been sig-
niﬁcantly accelerated, enabling efﬁcient inference while
minimizing
computational
latency.
Speciﬁcally,
the
Jetson AGX Xavier functions as the runtime platform,
seamlessly executing detection, tracking, and counting
tasks in-ﬁeld. It integrates the LitchiDet module for
precise litchi detection and the tracking-counting module
for association and trajectory analysis. This architec-
ture allows LitchiCount to achieve high-precision litchi
counting directly on edge devices, making it a promis-
ing solution for deployment in unmanned vehicles to
automate orchard patrol operations.
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:45:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

LU et al.: IoT-BASED PRECISION LITCHI TRACKING AND COUNTING METHOD USING GATED METRICS
49085
Fig. 1.
Framework of LitchiCount.
II. DATASET PREPARATION
A. Data Acquisition
In this section, we present a new dataset for litchi detection
and video counting, collected in Conghua and Zengcheng,
Guangzhou, China, between June and July 2022–2023. The
dataset includes litchi species, such as Huai Zhi, Guiwei,
and Xianjinfeng. Data were captured using a Huawei Mate40
(12MP, f/1.9), an iPhone13 (12MP, f/1.6), and a 3-axis gimbal.
To improve model accuracy under various conditions, we
captured images and videos featuring variations in size, bright-
ness, occlusion, and density from multiple angles at distances
of 0.5–2 m. In total, 475 RGB images containing over 23 000
litchi targets were collected, alongside videos totaling 933 s.
The movement speed during collection ranged from 0.1 to
0.3 m/s, with a frame rate of 30 FPS and a resolution of 1080p.
Fig. 2 provides an overview of the data collection process and
sample images.
B. Data Augmentation and Dataset Construction
In the initial dataset construction, we manually annotated
litchi instances using LabelImg software. The dataset was split
into training (334 images) and test sets (141 images) in a 7:3
ratio for model training and evaluation. Data augmentation
techniques, including horizontal ﬂipping, brightness adjust-
ment, motion blur, simulated rainfall, and salt-and-pepper
noise, were applied to simulate diverse ﬁeld conditions and
reduce overﬁtting [28]. This increased the training set to 2004
images. For further validation, the litchi counts in each video
sequence were manually precounted.
III. DESIGN FOR INTERPRETABLE WORK
Our proposed method LitchiCount is designed under the
guidance of interpretability methods and follows the tracking-
by-detection paradigm, with the foundation and core of this
paradigm being object detection and data association [29].
Fig. 2.
Acquisition process and image data examples.
Fig. 3.
Example diagram of trajectory interruption. (a) t-frame moment of
Case1. (b) t+15 frame moment of Case1. (c) t-frame moment of Case2. (d) t+9
frame moment of Case2.
To enhance the detection performance, we conducted inter-
pretability research using Grad-CAM++ as a method [30].
Step1: The output of a convolutional neural network (CNN)
for classiﬁcation is deﬁned as Y. Next, the output score Y for
a particular class c is computed by performing a dot product
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:45:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

49086
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 12, NO. 23, 1 DECEMBER 2025
Fig. 4.
Structure of LitchiDet.
between the weight W and the feature map K
Yc =

k
wc
k.

i

j
Ak
ij
(1)
where wc
k represents the weight of the kth feature map
corresponding to class c, and Ak
ij represents the pixel value
at a particular spatial location (i, j) within the kth feature
map. Step2: The heatmaps Lc
ij are obtained by applying the
principle of weighted summation. Speciﬁcally, the weights of
feature map are determined by calculating a weighted average
of pixel-scale gradients. It is one of the widely used visual
explanation methods and explains the predictions of models
based on CNNs through image visualization. Speciﬁcally,
it can accurately localize the predicted class and generate
heatmaps at all positions of the class, which highlight the
key regions that inﬂuence the model’s decision-making. The
heatmaps are obtained through the following steps:
wc
k =

i

j
αkc
ij .relu

∂Yc
∂Ak
ij

(2)
Lc
ij =

k
wc
k.Ak
ij
(3)
where αkc
ij
represents the gradient weights, which signiﬁes
gradient weights for the pixel for class c at position (i, j) in
the kth feature map Ak
In this article, we utilize heatmaps generated by Grad-
CAM++ to highlight the regions of interest within our litchi
detection model. This process aids in identifying issues,
designing with a speciﬁc target in mind, and making improve-
ments to enhance the model’s interpretability.
In multiobject tracking, data association plays a crucial role
in matching and associating targets by calculating their sim-
ilarity between adjacent frames [31], [32]. At present, target
similarity is mainly determined by the motion information
or appearance features between adjacent frames. According
to preliminary experiments, the original tracking model is
prone to trajectory interruption under conditions, such as
fruit occlusion and camera shaking, as shown in Fig. 3.
Hence, we employ an experimental validation method based
on important features to guide the enhancement of the tracking
model. In particular, we modify or introduce two crucial
features, namely, target motion information and appearance
information, into the original tracking model to examine their
individual impacts on the model’s prediction. The features
that exert a signiﬁcant impact on model predictions and lead
to higher accuracy are the ones that contribute more to data
association.
Based on this idea, we enhanced the IoU metric and inte-
grated an appearance feature metric into the original tracking
model. Additionally, fruit counting experiments will be con-
ducted to develop a scheme that achieves higher performance
and better interpretability.
IV. LITCHIDET DETECTION MODEL DESIGN
Considering the existing issues of missed and false detec-
tions in fruit detection models, we introduce a lightweight
litchi detection model, LitchiDet, designed for edge computing
platforms in this section (as shown in Fig. 4). The following is
an introduction to the three core components in the LitchiDet.
A. Low Computational Cost Global Attention Method Design
Recently, some scholars have suggested the integration of
self-attention mechanisms, like transformers, with ghost mod-
ules [33]. Despite their ability to capture global information,
these modules require a considerable number of reshape and
transpose operations. This poses challenges for hardware-
friendly deployment [34], [35]. The GhostNetV2 module [36],
which incorporates the DFC and Ghost module, will be a
satisfactory solution to the aforementioned issues, so we
incorporated it into the C3 module to form DFC-C3ghost.
This method offers the following beneﬁts: 1) it gen-
erates more features with fewer parameters, maintaining
low-computational cost while improving global information
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:45:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

LU et al.: IoT-BASED PRECISION LITCHI TRACKING AND COUNTING METHOD USING GATED METRICS
49087
attention and 2) it reduces the attention module’s computa-
tional complexity from O(H2W2) to O(H2W + HW2), aiding
hardware deployment. The input feature X ∈RH×W×C is
processed through two branches. The Ghost module generates
the output feature, and the DFC attention mechanism computes
the attention matrix. DFC attention works on downsampled
features, then upsamples them to the original size. DFC’s fully
connected (FC) layer is split into horizontal and vertical FC
layers to prioritize horizontal and vertical pixels in the feature
map. This division helps capture long-range relationships in
both directions, enhancing Ghost module’s output features.
After a 1 × 1 convolution on the input, we get Z ∈RH×W×C
for the attention module. The long-range spatial information
in the horizontal direction of Z is computed as
a′
hw =
H

h′=1
FH
h,h′w ⊙zh′w, h = 1, 2, . . . , H, w = 1, 2, . . . , W.
(4)
Based on (4), the formula to calculate the long-range spatial
information in the vertical direction is as follows:
ahw =
W

w′=1
FW
w,hw′ ⊙a′
hw′, h = 1, 2, . . . , H, w = 1, 2, . . . , W
(5)
where ⊙is the element-wise multiplication of the array, and F
represents the learnable weights in the FC layer. The FC layer
can eliminate tensor reshaping and transposition operations
that signiﬁcantly affect inference speed by sharing a portion
of weights F.
Finally, the output ϑ is obtained by performing element-
wise multiplication on the results of the two branches of the
GhostnetV2 module
ϑ = Sigmoid (A) ⊙V(X)
(6)
where A = {a11, a12, . . . , aHW} represents the attention map
obtained by the DFC attention mechanism, and V represents
the output features of the Ghost module.
Therefore, in order to highlight intricate details of litchi
fruits in dense scenes and suppressing irrelevant back-
ground features, partial C3 modules in the backbone and
neck networks were replaced with DFC-C3ghost to cap-
ture long-range between pixels at various spatial positions.
Consequently, the detection [46] performance of small litchi
targets is enhanced while reducing computational costs on
edge devices. The network architecture of DFC-C3ghost is
depicted in Fig. 5.
B. New Target Detection Scale Design
Our constructed image dataset contains numerous small
litchi objects. Nevertheless, the original model, undergoing
multiple downsampling operations, has signiﬁcantly dimin-
ished the amount of feature information available for detecting
targets smaller than 8 pixels in size [37]. To enhance small
litchi detection, we integrated a specialized detection head
and incorporated feature fusion layers into the Neck network
to leverage both shallow and deep features. The large object
detection head was removed due to its minimal contribution,
Fig. 5.
Architecture of the DFC-C3Ghost module: (a) Basic structure of
GhostNetV2, which includes lightweight feature generation using the Ghost
module; (b) DFC attention module, which builds long-range dependencies
through horizontal and vertical fully connected layers; (c) Complete structure
of the DFC-C3Ghost module that integrates GhostNetV2 with the DFC
attention mechanism.
Fig. 6.
Structure of ELANB.
allowing the model to focus on small litchi objects and reduce
computational costs. The introduction of new feature scales at
160 × 160, 80 × 80, and 40 × 40 improves detection accuracy
in dense scenes and enhances the extraction of occluded litchi
features.
C. Flow Information Enhancement Module Integration
Given the limited feature extraction capability of deep
neural networks, researchers have recently proposed network
architectures that leverage gradient path design strategies.
Unlike traditional mainstream networks that are designed
based on data paths, these architectures facilitate the learn-
ing of a wider range of features through distinct groups
of computational blocks. As a result, deeper networks can
effectively learn and converge while maximizing the utilization
of parameters and enhancing their generalization capabil-
ity [38]. In this article, we propose replacing the original
C3 module with ELANB (as shown in Fig. 6), a new backbone
network structure based on gradient path design strategy. The
enhanced network can capture more abundant gradient ﬂow
information without introducing additional complex architec-
tures. As a result, this further improves the capabilities of
feature information extraction and learning, effectively solving
the issue of inadequate extraction of litchi feature information
by deep networks in natural environments.
V. LITCHI ONLINE TRACKING AND COUNTING
METHOD DESIGN
Given the speciﬁc litchi scenarios observed during the
experiments, such as dense occlusion, target disappearance,
and nonlinear motion, signiﬁcant challenges arise for exist-
ing multiobject trackers based on simple motion models. In
response, we referred to ByteTrack [39] and subsequently
developed a counting-by-tracking module applicable to litchi
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:45:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

49088
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 12, NO. 23, 1 DECEMBER 2025
Fig. 7.
Flowchart of LitchiCount.
Fig. 8.
Comparison of IoU and DG-GM in occlusion and matching range
scenarios. (a) Occlusion case: IoU fails to associate detection boxes D1 and
D2 (same fruit) due to zero overlap, while DG-GM (via GIoU and DIoU
gating) retains spatial relationships for correct association. (b) Matching range
expansion: Unconstrained GIoU (yellow box D3 and red box D4) may cause
ID drift, but DG-GM uses DIoU to limit distance, preventing misassociation
of distinct fruits.
in the ﬁeld, and fused it with Litchidet to form LitchiCount.
We will introduce the details of the mentioned above module
and the corresponding implementation details in this section.
A. Overall Implementation
In this section, we mainly describe the implementation
process of LitchiCount, the ﬂowchart is shown in Fig. 7. First,
the litchi detection results derived from LitchiDet are used as
inputs to the tracking module and are divided into high and
low-score detection boxes. Subsequently, initial trajectories are
created for all the targets in the ﬁrst frame of the video, fol-
lowed by three stages of tracking. LitchiCount is speciﬁcally
designed for video-based tracking and counting. It processes
video in a frame-by-frame manner, where each frame is ﬁrst
processed by the detection module (LitchiDet), and then the
detected objects are associated using the tracking and counting
module. This enables continuous tracking of litchi across
frames, ensuring accurate and robust counting in dynamic
orchard environments. The ﬁrst step involves matching using
the high-score boxes and all previously generated trajectories.
The second step is to use the low-score boxes to match with
the trajectories that were not matched in the ﬁrst step. The
third step involves creating a new trajectory for the unmatched
high-score boxes from the previous two steps. We retain only
60 frames for the unmatched trajectories and match them when
they reappear. Speciﬁcally, the Kalman ﬁlter is initially applied
to accomplish cross-frame tracking of the fruit in the video.
It uses observed data to optimally estimate the system state
and aids tracking primarily by predicting and updating target
trajectories. That is, the posteriori state vector Xm−1 of the
frame m-1 is ﬁrst used to obtain the priori state vector X−
m of
the frame m by dot product it with the state transfer matrix F
X−
m = FXm−1.
(7)
The prior state estimation covariance P−
m of the frame m can
be represented as
P−
m = FPm−1FT + Qm−1
(8)
where Qm−1 represents the system noise covariance of the m-1
frame.
Updating means using the detection results of the current
frame to correct the tracking state associated with it [40]. Here,
it is necessary to ﬁrst calculate the average error um−1 between
detection and tracking based on the detection result Zm−1 of
m+1 frames
um+1 = Zm+1 −HXm
(9)
where H denotes the transformation matrix, which is respon-
sible for converting state variables into observation variables.
To obtain the innovation covariance M, it is necessary to
map the covariance matrix to the detection space using the
transformation matrix H and incorporate the observation noise
R
M = HPmHT + R.
(10)
Based on (10), the Kalman gain can be expressed as
Km+1 = PmHTM−1.
(11)
With the above steps, the state update is completed, and the
posterior state estimation QXm+1 and covariance matrix Pm−1
of the updated current state are represented as follows:
Xm+1 = Xm + Km+1um+1
(12)
Pm+1 = (I −Km+1H)Pm
(13)
where I is the unit matrix.
After the Kalman ﬁltering is accomplished [57], the sim-
ilarity between the prediction and detection boxes is then
calculated using our proposed DG-GM, and the matching is
completed by the Hungarian algorithm. At this moment, an ID
is assigned to each litchi target for association, and as long
as the targets are consistently tracked, their assigned IDs will
remain constant. After that, ﬁeld litchi counting needs to be
combined with our proposed area counting strategy AreaC.
B. DG-GM Association Metrics Design
Due to the acquisition device’s susceptibility to shaking
from angle changes and obstacle avoidance, capturing ﬁeld
images presents additional challenges. Relying solely on the
IoU metric can lead to issues with tracking initialization and
trajectory interruptions [56], ultimately resulting in signiﬁcant
accuracy errors. To address this issue, we propose DG-GM, a
simple and efﬁcient association metric suitable for real-time
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:45:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

LU et al.: IoT-BASED PRECISION LITCHI TRACKING AND COUNTING METHOD USING GATED METRICS
49089
Algorithm 1 DG-GM Association Metrics
Input: Bounding boxes of objects and detections, IoU
between objects and detection boxes I[a*b], the gating
metrics of DG-GM α(α=0.34)
Output: DG-GM
1: Initialize gating matrix T
2: for i = 1; i < a ∗b; i + + do
3:
Obtain DIoU between the two boxes by (16)
4:
if DIoU < α then
5:
Obtain IoU between the two boxes by (14) and use
it as the matching score
6:
else
7:
Obtain GIoU between the two boxes by (15) and use
it as the matching score
8:
end if
9:
Update the gating matrix T based on matching score
10: end for
11: Compute the DG-GM by gating matrix T
12: return the DG-GM
scenarios. DG-GM improves association performance under
conditions of occlusion and changes in motion speed, reducing
fruit ID switching and repeated counting. Speciﬁcally, IoU is
replaced with GIoU [41], which accounts for both the overlap
and the smallest enclosing rectangle. The ﬁnal GIoU value
is constrained between 0 and 1 and is obtained through the
following steps.
Calculate the IoU of the two boxes
IoU(A, B) = A ∩B
A ∪B
(14)
where A and B refer to detection box A and B, respectively.
Utilize the calculated IoU to compute the GIoU metric
GloU(A, B) = 1 −IoU(A, B) + |C| −|A ∪B|
|C|
(15)
where C is the minimum bounding box that contains both A
and B.
Compared to IoU, GIoU provides a value even when bound-
ing boxes do not overlap, offering a more accurate measure
of similarity. This extends the matching range of litchi targets
across frames, improving robustness against occlusion and
velocity changes [42], [43]. For instance, during occlusion,
the IoU between detection boxes D1 and D2 becomes zero
[Fig. 8(a)], resulting in ID reassignment when using IoU-based
tracking. In contrast, GIoU preserves the relationship between
the boxes, correctly associating them with the same fruit.
In addition, we examine the unregulated expansion of the
matching range, The tracker may erroneously assign the same
ID to different objects, resulting in an ampliﬁcation of ID drift.
As shown in Fig. 8(b), When the yellow detection box that
contains the litchi is occluded at frame t, and if there are no
constraints on the matching range, the ID of D3 will shift to
D4 after 20 frames. Further, we propose association metric
called DG-GM that incorporates a gating mechanism. The
DIoU, which exhibits greater sensitivity to centroid distance,
is initially employed as a gating control mechanism to restrain
the unregulated expansion of the matching range [44]. The
DIoU value is also limited in the range of 0 to 1 and it is
calculated as
DloU(A, B) = IoU(A, B) −ρ2(A, B)
c2
(16)
where ρ2 represents the Euclidean distance between the two
boxes, and c represents the diagonal length of the minimum
bounding box.
During the DG-GM similarity calculation, if the DIoU falls
below the speciﬁed threshold value, indicating a signiﬁcant
separation between the two boxes, the IoU will be reintroduced
to minimize the misjudgment of identical objects beyond the
expanded matching range. Otherwise, the GIoU will be used
for calculation. The DG-GM association metrics algorithm is
shown in Algorithm 1.
After using DIoU for distance limitation, two litchi that
are too far apart are no longer recognized as litchi with the
same ID when the matching range is extended [as shown
in Fig. 8(b)]. This approach ensures robustness in handling
occlusion and nonlinear motion scenarios, including velocity
changes, while effectively reducing ID drift and confusion,
which is extremely critical for accurate litchi counting in large
scenes.
C. Area Counting Strategic Develop
In general, litchi counting can be accomplished by tracking
unique IDs. However, due to the large size of litchi trees and
the limitations of video capture, dynamic adjustment of the
FOV becomes necessary, leading to more complex scenarios.
Methods such as cross-line or full-area counting may result in
signiﬁcant undercounting or double counting. After a thorough
analysis, we identiﬁed the following situations.
1) When shooting around a litchi tree, it is common for
fruits located on one side of the tree to reemerge in the
FOV at another angle, usually at the left and right edges
of the video. As shown in Fig. 9(a) and (b), all the litchi
in the yellow circle have been updated with their IDs
after a few frames, which will result in repeat counting.
2) Modify the shooting FOV upward or downward to
ensure coverage of litchi located at varying heights. As
shown in Fig. 9(e), litchi at the lower edge are in an
unstable state and tend to switch IDs as the device moves
up and down.
3) During the camera movement, litchi may be in an
unstable state due to occlusion and other conditions.
As shown in Fig. 9(c) and (d), the litchi with IDs 179
and 187 in the yellow circle in Fig. 9(c) are detectable,
but they have been completely obscured in Fig. 9(d),
resulting in a failure to cross the yellow counting line
and causing a signiﬁcant number of missed counts.
To alleviate the above problem, we developed a special-
ized area counting strategy, named AreaC. As illustrated in
Fig. 9(f), the counting region is centrally located within the
video frame, covering 60% of the horizontal width and 95%
of the vertical height. Litchi are counted based on their unique
IDs as they enter this region, where their state is more stable,
minimizing the frequency of ID switching. AreaC is designed
to maximize the effective counting area while minimizing
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:45:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

49090
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 12, NO. 23, 1 DECEMBER 2025
Fig. 9.
Scenarios using different counting strategies. (a) and (b) 702-frame
and 865-frame picture, respectively, obtained using the Full Count strategy.
(c)–(e) 476-frame, the 629-frame, and the anomaly picture which litchi locate
at the lower edge of the video, respectively. The yellow line is the counting
line. (f) Example of using AreaC for counting, and the yellow area in the
diagram is the counting area.
repeated counts, thereby improving the overall efﬁciency of
video analysis. This approach demonstrates superior adapt-
ability to different scene variations and offers higher accuracy
compared to the Cross Line and Full Count methods.
VI. TEST EQUIPMENT AND RELATED CONFIGURATION
The experiments in this article are mainly performed by
servers and AI edge devices. The server side is mainly for
model training and pretest simulation, with platform environ-
ment: Windows 10, Intel Xeon Gold 5118 CPU, 128 GB
RAM, NVIDIA GeForce RTX 2080(8 GB) GPU, CUDA11.3,
PyTorch1.10.0, and Python3.8. The training parameters of
LitchiDet are: the input size is 640×640, the learning rate
is 0.01, the batch size is 8, the epoch is 200. Nvidia Jetson
AGX Xavier is utilized on the edge device side, with the
device environment: 8-core NVIDIA Carmel ARMv8.2 64-bit
CPU, GPU with 32TOPS. TensorRT, a high-performance deep
learning inference optimizer, which compared to pruning [52],
distillation [53], and transfer learning [54], can reduce model
inference time while maintaining high detection accuracy,
is used for hardware-accelerated optimization, mainly for
model testing and applications. It optimizes the network
structure mainly through model compression and hardware
mapping [45]. The LitchiDet detection model is quantized
using TensorRT in order to construct a model in TRT format
to speed up the inference of LitchiCount on edge platforms.
The evaluation metrics in this article are mainly divided into
two parts, as follows.
1) Performance Metrics for detection: In order to scientif-
ically evaluate the performance of litchi detection model in
complex ﬁeld environments, we used the following metrics:
map, model parameters, model size, and FPS. The precision
(P), recall rate (R), and average precision (AP) used for
computing the mean AP (mAP) are determined by (17), (18),
and (19), respectively. The mAP is then determined by (20).
TP, FP, and FN represent true positives, false positives, and
false negatives, respectively. In this article, the category is
denoted by C, where C has a value of 1
P =
TP
TP + FP
(17)
R =
TP
TP + FN
(18)
AP(k) =
 1
0
P(R) dR
(19)
mAP = Q
1 AP(k)
Q
.
(20)
2) Performance Metrics for counting: Mean absolute per-
centage error (MAPE), mean error (ME), and FPS are used to
evaluate the litchi counting performance in video sequences.
Counting accuracy increases as the MAPE and ME decrease.
The positive and negative of ME can additionally reﬂect
the situations of missing counting and repeat counting. The
manual counting is the average obtained by ﬁve different
individuals manually counting from the video. MAPE, ME are
calculated as
MAPE = 1
n
n

i=1

Method Counti −Manual Counti
Manual Counti
 (21)
ME = 1
n
n

i=1
Method Counti −Manual Counti. (22)
VII. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
A. Litchi Detection Model Experiments
In this section, we ﬁrst introduce the process of network
optimization based on visual interpretability methods, and then
conduct relevant evaluations of the detection model.
1) Grad-CAM++-Based
Model
Optimization
Process:
Here, Grad-CAM++ is applied to the detection model to gen-
erate heat maps, enabling thorough analysis and interpretation
of the inﬂuential feature regions on the model’s prediction
results. This analysis serves as the foundation for deriving
performance improvement strategies. As shown in Fig. 10, the
red and blue dots indicate that they can activate and inhibit
decision outcomes. We ﬁrst generate maps for the 17th layer
network of the detection model using Grad-CAM++.
Fig. 10(b) shows that without network improvements, the
model focuses only on large litchi targets, indicating the need
to enhance detection robustness for small targets. Therefore,
we designed a new detection scale with a small target detection
layer. To address this issue, we designed a small target
detection layer. As shown in Fig. 10(c), this layer improves
attention to small litchi, but occluded litchi remain challeng-
ing, likely due to the network’s limited feature extraction
under extreme occlusion. To further address this issue, we
introduced the ELANB module. As shown in Fig. 10(d),
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:45:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

LU et al.: IoT-BASED PRECISION LITCHI TRACKING AND COUNTING METHOD USING GATED METRICS
49091
TABLE I
ABLATION STUDY OF DETECTION ALGORITHM
Fig. 10.
(a) Heat map of the LitchiDet improvement process. (b) Original
detection model, where the attention is primarily on large litchi targets, leading
to missed small and occluded fruits. (c) Heat map after incorporating a small
object detection layer, improving the focus on small litchi but still struggling
with occlusions. (d) Effect of adding the ELANB module, which enhances
gradient ﬂow and enables more comprehensive feature extraction, though
some irrelevant areas still receive attention. (e) Impact of the DFC-C3Ghost
module, which reﬁnes attention by suppressing background noise and further
strengthening small-object detection.
the improved network focuses on both large and small litchi
targets under various occlusion scenarios, while also capturing
richer features from dispersed areas like branches, indicat-
ing that ELANB enhances feature extraction. However, the
increased attention to irrelevant objects raises the risk of
false detections. To mitigate this, we added the DFC-C3Ghost
attention module, which, as shown in Fig. 10(e), reﬁnes the
network’s focus on litchi regions and enhances multiscale
litchi detection. The combination of all three improvements
signiﬁcantly boosts prediction accuracy, the above image
visualization results clearly explain how each improvement
branch affects the network’s decision-making on litchi, which
effectively enhances the interpretability and performance of
LitchiDet.
2) Ablation Experiment: To validate the effect of each
improved branch on the LitchiDet, we conducted ablation
experiments on our litchi image dataset. From Table I, we
observe that the introduction of the small target layer substan-
tially improves the detection model performance. The mAP is
also improved by 5.42% and 5.11% with the introduction of
ELANB and DFC-C3ghost module, respectively. Although the
improved model FPS slightly decreases, the mAP is signiﬁ-
cantly improved by 5.97% and the model size is compressed
by 33.56%. The above proves that the improved LitchiDet can
realize high-precision and real-time detection of litchi in large
scenarios.
TABLE II
EFFECT COMPARISON OF TENSORRT ON PERFORMANCE AND SPEED
TABLE III
PERFORMANCE COMPARISON OF DIFFERENT OBJECT DETECTION
MODELS
3) TensorRT
Acceleration
Comparison
Experiment: To
better fulﬁll the real-time requirements, we adopt the TensorRT
technique to improve the edge inference speed of the model.
Next, we conducted a comparison experiment. From Table II,
it can be clearly seen that after the TensorRT optimization,
the model detection accuracy loss is very small, only 0.25%,
and the image detection and video counting FPS improvement
is signiﬁcant, about 50.29% and 29.69%. This indicates
that TensorRT is signiﬁcantly useful for LitchiDet, both in
maintaining the litchi detection accuracy in dense scenarios
and in increasing the operation speed of edge devices with
limited storage space and computational power.
4) Performance Comparison With Other Detection Models:
To further validate the efﬁciency of the LitchiDet, we
conducted performance comparison experiments on Faster
R-CNN,
Nanodet
[47],
YOLOv6
[48],
YOLOv7
[38],
YOLOv8 (As shown in Table III). In terms of detection
accuracy, LitchiDet is 118.91% and 122.13% higher than
Faster R-CNN and Nanodet and surpasses the above yolo
series, in addition, the running speed is also superior to Faster
R-CNN and yolo series. The above experiments demonstrate
that our proposed LitchiDet is superior to several other models
in terms of both performance and speed and enables real-time
and efﬁcient recognition of litchi in dense ﬁeld scenarios.
5) Performance Comparison of Image Detection After
Improvement: To verify the detection model’s improvement,
we conducted comparison experiments on litchi images.
As shown in Fig. 11, LitchiDet detects more small litchi
targets and better distinguishes overlapping litchi in dense
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:45:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

49092
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 12, NO. 23, 1 DECEMBER 2025
Fig. 11.
Detection results of LitchiDet(a) The original model misses small
litchi and fails to separate overlapping fruits. (b) Improved model detects small
targets, resolves overlaps, and reduces false positives by leveraging multi-scale
features, attention mechanisms, and enhanced gradient ﬂow.
Fig. 12.
Examples of keyframe groups that demonstrate performance in the
presence of occlusion. The fruits in Case 1 and Case 2 experienced occlusion
during the course of the process, yet their respective IDs remained unchanged.
scenes, indicating the improved method signiﬁcantly enhances
detection accuracy.
B. Litchi Counting Experiments
In this section, we perform enhancements to the counting
model and evaluate its performance based on the litchi video
dataset.
1) Performance Comparison of Different Metrics and
Gating Parameters on Counting: To validate the applicability
of the DG-GM metric, two experiments were conducted. The
ﬁrst compared the performance of various metrics without gat-
ing, while the second focused on different gating parameters.
In the ﬁrst experiment, IoU, DIoU, CIoU, EIoU, and GIoU
were sequentially integrated into the model as association
metrics, followed by counting. Results in Table IV show
frequent repeated counting with IoU, while GIoU provided
more accurate results. Other methods generally produced
lower counts. All approaches improved continuous tracking
of litchi occluded by leaves and fruits compared to IoU
matching. However, lower counts were attributed to variation
in association metrics, leading to an expanded matching range
and ID drift between fruits.
Further, in order to select the most suitable gating parameter
values to control the matching range, we conducted relevant
Fig. 13.
Examples of keyframe groups that demonstrate performance in the
presence of velocity changes. Where DG-GM denotes the improved effect.
In Case1, the fruit with ID 137 experienced ID drift, and after improvement,
the fruit IDs in the two frames were 145 and 149, and no drift occurred. In
Case2, the fruit with ID 126 experienced ID drift, and after improvement, no
drift occurred.
Fig. 14.
Performance comparison between DG-GM and FastReID.
(a) Comparison of both with the MAPE of the model using IoU before the
improvement. (b) Correlation coefﬁcient R2 between the counting results of
the algorithms and the actual results for both.
counting comparison experiments. We selected ten keyframe
groups for additional comparison, ﬁve of which are to reﬂect
the tracking performance during occlusion, and the other ﬁve
aim to assess the ability to mitigate ID drift. When the
keyframe groups yield positive results, the value increases
by 1. Table V demonstrates the counting performance for
different gating values. Figs. 12 and 13 show examples
of two types of keyframe groups. As shown in Table V,
with a gating parameter of 0.34, the keyframe groups all
showed a better ability to overcome occlusion and ID drift,
and the MAPE was also the lowest. In other words, the
DG-GM with this parameter achieves a better balance between
continuous tracking ability [58] and addressing the issue of ID
drifting when dealing with occlusions, thereby reducing repeat
counting.
2) Experimental Validation Method Based on Important
Features: Additionally, we conducted experiments by inte-
grating the reidentiﬁcation technique FastReID [49], which
allows cross-frame association using appearance information
as their similarity. This experiment
aimed to compare
FastReID with DG-GM and IoU to determine the most effec-
tive improvement approach using different important features.
As shown in Fig. 14(a), the introduction of FastReID performs
similarly to IoU and does not signiﬁcantly improve the model.
In contrast, the DG-GM metric outperforms FastReID in
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:45:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

LU et al.: IoT-BASED PRECISION LITCHI TRACKING AND COUNTING METHOD USING GATED METRICS
49093
Fig. 15.
Performance under fast camera movement or shaking when
combined with FastReID. (a)–(h) denote the video tracking trajectory within
a span of 40 frames.
TABLE IV
PERFORMANCE COMPARISON OF DIFFERENT SIMILARITY METRICS
TABLE V
PERFORMANCE COMPARISON OF DIFFERENT THRESHOLD FOR DG-GM
counting accuracy. Fig. 15 illustrates that the litchi with the
initial ID of 1023 still experienced ID switching (a total of
7 ID switches occurred in 40 frames) during camera shake
and fast movement, which is a key factor leading to repeated
counting. Based on this analysis, it is concluded that DG-
GM signiﬁcantly contributes to data association decisions and
proves to be a more effective solution for litchi video counting.
3) Performance
Comparison
of
Different
Counting
Strategies and Models: In this experiment, the tracking input
was standardized using the detection results from LitchiDet,
with DG-GM employed as the uniﬁed association metric.
The counting strategies considered were Cross Line, Full
Count, and AreaC. The experimental results, as shown in
Table VI, indicate that the MAPE values were higher for both
the Cross Line and Full Count strategies. The Cross Line
strategy yielded a higher MAPE due to a signiﬁcant number
of missed counts, while the Full Count strategy resulted in
elevated MAPE values due to repeated counting. In contrast,
the AreaC strategy achieved a balance between missed and
repeated counts, effectively mitigating the limitations inherent
to video capture.
Fig. 16.
Comparison of tracking robustness under occlusion. First row:
counting with LitchiCount. Second row: counting with DeepSort.
Fig. 17.
Comparison of tracking robustness under camera’s speed change
or shaking. First row: counting with LitchiCount. Second row: counting with
DeepSort.
To validate the effectiveness of our method in real-time
litchi counting under ﬁeld conditions, we compared it with a
classical fruit counting method [50]. The experimental setup
remained consistent with previous tests. Using DeepSORT and
Cross Line [51], the MAPE was 49.79%, which decreased to
46.95% with the AreaC strategy. However, the performance
remained suboptimal. Our method achieved a signiﬁcantly
lower MAPE and an eight-fold increase in frame rate.
Figs. 16 and 17 demonstrate improved robustness in tracking,
particularly under conditions of occlusion and camera motion,
where the DeepSORT-based method exhibited frequent ID
switching. Consequently, our method outperformed in both
accuracy and speed.
VIII. CONCLUSION
In this article, we proposed a low-repetitive and reli-
able video counting method based on gating metrics for
litchi, called LitchiCount. It is the ﬁrst attempt to perform
fast counting work from multiple sides of the litchi tree.
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:45:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

49094
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 12, NO. 23, 1 DECEMBER 2025
TABLE VI
PERFORMANCE COMPARISON OF DIFFERENT COUNTING
STRATEGIES AND MODELS
We develop it, which contains a detection model LitchiDet
and a tracking and counting module, oriented by Grad-
CAM++ and the experimental validation method based on
important features. First, LitchiDet which combines a small
target detection layer, DFC-C3Ghost, ELANB was proposed.
LitchiDet can capture the global information of litchi in
complex backgrounds, obtain rich gradient ﬂow information,
and then improve the robustness of litchi small targets in
scenes with occlusions and overlapping. Second, we propose a
tracking and counting module containing an association metric
based on a gating mechanism DG-GM and an area counting
strategy AreaC. Speciﬁcally, DG-GM has the capability to
improve the tracking association accuracy and adaptability
to velocity variations of litchi under occluded conditions,
while AreaC can address the limitations of video acquisition,
and ﬁnally jointly alleviate the issue of missed counting and
repeat counting. Finally, To further address the computational
constraints of IoT edge devices, we deployed LitchiCount on
the Jetson AGX Xavier platform and leveraged TensorRT for
hardware acceleration. The experimental results demonstrate
that LitchiCount achieves a MAPE of 3.29%, signiﬁcantly out-
performing DeepSort-based methods in counting performance.
Although the proposed method enables low-repetitive and
rapid litchi video counting in the ﬁeld, certain limitations
and areas for improvement remain. The primary challenges
are as follows: First, while the method is highly effective
for short-term occlusions, it still struggles with long-term
occlusion scenarios. Therefore, we plan to further enhance the
continuous tracking capability of LitchiCount to handle long-
term occlusions and cases where fruits reappear after leaving
the frame. Second, when capturing litchi trees surrounded by
sparse branches and leaves, fruits on the opposite side may
frequently enter the camera’s FOV, leading to instances of
repeat counting. Consequently, we will continue to explore
and incorporate depth information in future work to improve
the accuracy of litchi identiﬁcation and counting at varying
distances, thereby reducing the occurrence of repeat counting.
REFERENCES
[1] F. Gao et al., “A novel apple fruit detection and counting methodology
based on deep learning and trunk tracking in modern orchard,” Comput.
Electron. Agricult., vol. 197, Jun. 2022, Art. no. 107000.
[2] S. Bargoti and J. Underwood, “Deep fruit detection in orchards,” in
Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Robot. Autom. (ICRA), 2017, pp. 3626–3633.
[3] U. Bhattarai and M. Karkee, “A weakly-supervised approach for
ﬂower/fruit counting in apple orchards,” Comput. Ind., vol. 138, Jun.
2022, Art. no. 103635.
[4] S. Madec et al., “Ear density estimation from high resolution RGB
imagery using deep learning technique,” Agricult. Forest Meteorol.,
vol. 264, pp. 225–234, Jan. 2019.
[5] Y. Liu, J. Wang, J. Li, S. Niu, and H. Song, “Machine learning for the
detection and identiﬁcation of Internet of Things devices: A survey,”
IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 9, no. 1, pp. 298–320, Jan. 2022.
[6] L. Porzi, M. Hoﬁnger, I. Ruiz, J. Serrat, S. R. Bulo, and P. Kontschieder,
“Learning multi-object tracking and segmentation from automatic anno-
tations,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit., 2020,
pp. 6846–6855.
[7] X. Chang, H. Pan, W. Sun, and H. Gao, “YolTrack: Multitask learning
based real-time multiobject tracking and segmentation for autonomous
vehicles,” IEEE Trans. Neural Netw. Learn. Syst., vol. 32, no. 12,
pp. 5323–5333, Dec. 2021.
[8] W. Liu et al., “SSD: Single shot multibox detector,” in Proc. 14th Eur.
Conf. Comput. Vis. ECCV, 2016, pp. 21–37.
[9] M. Hnewa and H. Radha, “Integrated multiscale domain adaptive
YOLO,” IEEE Trans. Image Process., vol. 32, pp. 1857–1867, 2023.
[10] C. Liang et al., “A visual detection method for nighttime litchi fruits
and fruiting stems,” Comput. Electron. Agricult., vol. 169, Feb. 2020,
Art. no. 105192.
[11] L. Cui et al., “Context-aware block net for small object detection,” IEEE
Trans. Cybern., vol. 52, no. 4, pp. 2300–2313, Apr. 2022.
[12] L. Wang, Y. Zhao, S. Liu, Y. Li, S. Chen, and Y. Lan, “Precision detec-
tion of dense plums in orchards using the improved YOLOV4 model,”
Front. Plant Sci., vol. 13, Mar. 2022, Art. no. 839269.
[13] S. Ren, K. He, R. Girshick, and J. Sun, “Faster R-CNN: Towards real-
time object detection with region proposal networks,” in Proc. Adv.
Neural Inf. Process. Syst., vol. 28, 2015, pp. 91–99.
[14] J. Lu et al., “Citrus green fruit detection via improved feature network
extraction,” Front. Plant Sci., vol. 13, Nov. 2022, Art. no. 946154.
[15] K. He, G. Gkioxari, P. Dollár, and R. Girshick, “Mask R-CNN,” in Proc.
IEEE Int. Conf. Comput. Vis., 2017, pp. 2961–2969.
[16] A. Koirala, K. Walsh, Z. Wang, and C. McCarthy, “Deep learning for
real-time fruit detection and orchard fruit load estimation: Benchmarking
of mangoyolo’,” Precis. Agricult., vol. 20, pp. 1107–1135, Feb. 2019.
[17] L. Wang, Y. Zhao, Z. Xiong, S. Wang, Y. Li, and Y. Lan, “Fast
and precise detection of litchi fruits for yield estimation based on the
improved YOLOV5 model,” Front. Plant Sci., vol. 13, Aug. 2022, Art.
no. 965425.
[18] V. Méndez et al., “In-ﬁeld estimation of orange number and size by 3D
laser scanning,” Agronomy, vol. 9, no. 12, p. 885, 2019.
[19] H. Gan, W. S. Lee, V. Alchanatis, and A. Abd-Elrahman, “Active thermal
imaging for immature citrus fruit detection,” Biosyst. Eng., vol. 198,
pp. 291–303, Oct. 2020.
[20] X. Liu et al., “Robust fruit counting: Combining deep learning, tracking,
and structure from motion,” in Proc. IEEE/RSJ Int. Conf. Intell. Robots
Syst. (IROS), 2018, pp. 1045–1052.
[21] X. Liu et al., “Monocular camera based fruit counting and mapping
with semantic data association,” IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett., vol. 4, no. 3,
pp. 2296–2303, Jul. 2019.
[22] L. Shen et al., “Real-time tracking and counting of grape clusters in
the ﬁeld based on channel pruning with YOLOV5S,” Comput. Electron.
Agricult., vol. 206, Mar. 2023, Art. no. 107662.
[23] S. Ge, C. Zhang, S. Li, D. Zeng, and D. Tao, “Cascaded correlation
reﬁnement for robust deep tracking,” IEEE Trans. Neural Netw. Learn.
Syst., vol. 32, no. 3, pp. 1276–1288, Mar. 2021.
[24] X. Xue, Y. Li, X. Yin, C. Shang, T. Peng, and Q. Shen, “Semantic-aware
real-time correlation tracking framework for UAV videos,” IEEE Trans.
Cybern., vol. 52, no. 4, pp. 2418–2429, Apr. 2022.
[25] C. Li, Z. Xiang, J. Tang, B. Luo, and F. Wang, “RGBT tracking via
noise-robust cross-modal ranking,” IEEE Trans. Neural Netw. Learn.
Syst., vol. 33, no. 9, pp. 5019–5031, Sep. 2022.
[26] X. Kong and Z. Ge, “Deep PLS: A lightweight deep learning model
for interpretable and efﬁcient data analytics,” IEEE Trans. Neural Netw.
Learn. Syst., vol. 34, no. 11, pp. 8923–8937, Nov. 2023.
[27] W. Dong et al., “Deep spatial–spectral joint-sparse prior encoding
network for hyperspectral target detection,” IEEE Trans. Cybern., vol.
54, no. 12, pp. 7780–7792, Dec. 2024.
[28] C. Shorten and T. M. Khoshgoftaar, “A survey on image data augmen-
tation for deep learning,” J. Big Data, vol. 6, no. 1, pp. 1–48, 2019.
[29] Z. Qin, S. Zhou, L. Wang, J. Duan, G. Hua, and W. Tang, “MotionTrack:
Learning robust short-term and long-term motions for multi-object
tracking,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit.,
2023, pp. 17939–17948.
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:45:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

LU et al.: IoT-BASED PRECISION LITCHI TRACKING AND COUNTING METHOD USING GATED METRICS
49095
[30] A. Chattopadhay, A. Sarkar, P. Howlader, and V. N. Balasubramanian,
“Grad-cam++: Generalized gradient-based visual explanations for deep
convolutional networks,” in Proc. IEEE Winter Conf. Appl. Comput. Vis.
(WACV), 2018, pp. 839–847.
[31] L. Jiao, D. Wang, Y. Bai, P. Chen, and F. Liu, “Deep learning in visual
tracking: A review,” IEEE Trans. Neural Netw. Learn. Syst., vol. 54, no.
12, pp. 7780–7792, Dec. 2024.
[32] Z. Sun, J. Chen, L. Chao, W. Ruan, and M. Mukherjee, “A survey of
multiple pedestrian tracking based on tracking-by-detection framework,”
IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. Video Technol., vol. 31, no. 5, pp. 1819–1833,
May 2021.
[33] K. Han, Y. Wang, Q. Tian, J. Guo, C. Xu, and C. Xu, “GhostNet: More
features from cheap operations,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Conf. Comput. Vis.
Pattern Recognit., 2020, pp. 1580–1589.
[34] Z. Zhang, X. Lu, G. Cao, Y. Yang, L. Jiao, and F. Liu, “VIT-YOLO:
Transformer-based YOLO for object detection,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Int.
Conf. Comput. Vis., 2021, pp. 2799–2808.
[35] K. Han et al., “A survey on vision transformer,” IEEE Trans. Pattern
Anal. Mach. Intell., vol. 45, no. 1, pp. 87–110, May 2022.
[36] Y. Tang, K. Han, J. Guo, C. Xu, C. Xu, and Y. Wang, “GhostNetV2:
Enhance cheap operation with long-range attention,” in Proc. Adv.
Neural Inf. Process. Syst., vol. 35, 2022, pp. 9969–9982.
[37] S. Yuan, Y. Wang, T. Liang, W. Jiang, S. Lin, and Z. Zhao, “Real-time
recognition and warning of mask wearing based on improved YOLOV5
R6. 1,” Int. J. Intell. Syst., vol. 37, no. 11, pp. 9309–9338, 2022.
[38] C.-Y. Wang, A. Bochkovskiy, and H.-Y. M. Liao, “YOLOV7: Trainable
bag-of-freebies sets new state-of-the-art for real-time object detec-
tors,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit., 2023,
pp. 7464–7475.
[39] Y. Zhang et al., “ByteTrack: Multi-object tracking by associating every
detection box,” in Proc. Eur. Conf. Comput. Vis., 2022, pp. 1–21.
[40] J. Villacrés, M. Viscaino, J. Delpiano, S. Vougioukas, and F. A. Cheein,
“Apple orchard production estimation using deep learning strategies:
A comparison of tracking-by-detection algorithms,” Comput. Electron.
Agricult., vol. 204, Jan. 2023, Art. no. 107513.
[41] H. Rezatoﬁghi, N. Tsoi, J. Gwak, A. Sadeghian, I. Reid, and S. Savarese,
“Generalized intersection over union: A metric and a loss for bound-
ing box regression,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern
Recognit., 2019, pp. 658–666.
[42] F. Yang, S. Odashima, S. Masui, and S. Jiang, “Hard to track objects with
irregular motions and similar appearances? Make it easier by buffering
the matching space,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Winter Conf. Appl. Comput.
Vis., 2023, pp. 4799–4808.
[43] W. Wang, K. Zhang, M. Lv, and J. Wang, “Hierarchical spatiotempo-
ral context-aware correlation ﬁlters for visual tracking,” IEEE Trans.
Cybern., vol. 51, no. 12, pp. 6066–6079, Dec. 2021.
[44] Z. Zheng, P. Wang, W. Liu, J. Li, R. Ye, and D. Ren, “Distance-IoU
loss: Faster and better learning for bounding box regression,” in Proc.
AAAI Conf. Artif. Intell., vol. 34, 2020, pp. 12993–13000.
[45] Y. Lan, S. Lin, H. Du, Y. Guo, and X. Deng, “Real-time UAV patrol
technology in orchard based on the swin-tyolox lightweight model,”
Remote Sens., vol. 14, no. 22, p. 5806, 2022.
[46] X. Zhou, X. Xu, W. Liang, Z. Zeng, and Z. Yan, “Deep-learning-
enhanced multitarget detection for end–edge–cloud surveillance in smart
IoT,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 8, no. 16, pp. 12588–12596, Aug.
2021.
[47] E. Arani, S. Gowda, R. Mukherjee, O. Magdy, S. Kathiresan, and
B. Zonooz, “A comprehensive study of real-time object detection
networks across multiple domains: A survey,” 2023, arXiv:2208.10895.
[48] C. Li et al., “YOLOV6: A single-stage object detection framework for
industrial applications,” 2022, arXiv:2209.02976.
[49] L. He, X. Liao, W. Liu, X. Liu, P. Cheng, and T. Mei, “FastREID:
A
pytorch
toolbox
for
general
instance
re-identiﬁcation,”
2020,
arXiv:2006.02631.
[50] S. Lyu, R. Li, Y. Zhao, Z. Li, R. Fan, and S. Liu, “Green citrus detection
and counting in orchards based on YOLOV5-CS and AI edge system,”
Sensors, vol. 22, no. 2, p. 576, 2022.
[51] N. Wojke, A. Bewley, and D. Paulus, “Simple online and realtime
tracking with a deep association metric,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Image
Process. (ICIP), 2017, pp. 3645–3649.
[52] Y. Li, K. Adamczewski, W. Li, S. Gu, R. Timofte, and L. Van Gool,
“Revisiting random channel pruning for neural network compression,”
in Proc. IEEE/CVF Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit., 2022,
pp. 191–201.
[53] Z. Li et al., “When object detection meets knowledge distillation:
A survey,” IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell., vol. 45, no. 8,
pp. 10555–10579, Aug. 2023.
[54] S. Niu, Y. Liu, J. Wang, and H. Song, “A decade survey of transfer learn-
ing (2010–2020),” IEEE Trans. Artif. Intell., vol. 1, no. 2, pp. 151–166,
Oct. 2020.
[55] Y. Wu, H. Sheng, Y. Zhang, S. Wang, Z. Xiong and W. Ke, “Hybrid
motion model for multiple object tracking in mobile devices,” IEEE
Internet Things J., vol. 10, no. 6, pp. 4735–4748, Mar. 2023.
[56] Y. Zhao, H. Liu, Q. Wang, and C. Li, “A multi-object tracking
method using IoU and color fusion model,” in Proc. 9th Int. Conf.
Signal Image Process. (ICSIP), Nanjing, China, 2024, pp. 747–751, doi:
10.1109/ICSIP61881.2024.10671489.
[57] Z. Luo, D. Shi, X. Shen, J. Ji and W.-S. Gan, “GFANC-Kalman:
Generative ﬁxed-ﬁlter active noise control with CNN-Kalman ﬁltering,”
IEEE Signal Process. Lett., vol. 31, pp. 276–280, 2024.
[58] A. Balachandran, A. Acharya, S. Chomal, and R. Tharmarasa,
“Multipath-assisted multitarget tracking with better track formation,”
IEEE Trans. Aerosp. Electron. Syst., vol. 60, no. 3, pp. 3021–3037, Jun.
2024.
[59] L. D. V. Escamilla et al., “Maturity recognition and fruit counting for
sweet peppers in greenhouses using deep learning neural networks,”
Agriculture, vol. 14, no. 3, p. 331, 2024.
[60] Y. Feng et al., “Approach of dynamic tracking and counting for obscured
citrus in smart orchard based on machine vision,” Appl. Sci., vol. 14,
no. 3, p. 1136, 2023, doi: 10.3390/app14031136.
Jianqiang Lu (Senior Member, IEEE) received the
B.S. degree in electronic information engineering
from Jinan University, Guangzhou, China, in 2003,
and the M.S. degree in pattern recognition and
intelligent systems and the Ph.D. degree in agri-
cultural electriﬁcation and automation from South
China Agricultural University, Guangzhou, in 2011
and 2017, respectively.
He has long been engaged in scientiﬁc research in
the ﬁelds of agricultural artiﬁcial intelligence, low-
altitude remote sensing imagery, and collaborative
control of unmanned vehicles. He has achieved a series of scientiﬁc results
in intelligent monitoring, model construction, and collaborative control in
China’s agriculture, forestry, animal husbandry, and ﬁshery sectors. These
achievements have had a certain impact on research in related ﬁelds in terms
of theory and methodology.
Dr. Lu is a member of the Big Data Committee of the Chinese Society of
Agricultural Engineering, a consulting expert in digital agriculture and rural
affairs for Guangdong Province, a rural science and technology envoy for
Guangzhou and Heyuan cities, and an Expert in the think tank of the Shaoguan
Association for Science and Technology.
Guoqing Bao received the bachelor’s degree in
Internet of Things engineering from Gannan Medical
University, Ganzhou, China, in 2023. He is cur-
rently pursuing the master’s degree in engineering
with the School of Electronic Engineering (Artiﬁcial
Intelligence), South China Agricultural University,
Guangzhou, China.
He has been focusing on research in the ﬁelds of
agricultural artiﬁcial intelligence, machine learning,
and computer vision, particularly on the appli-
cation of deep learning technologies in precision
agriculture operations.
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:45:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

49096
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 12, NO. 23, 1 DECEMBER 2025
Xiaoling Deng received the B.S. degree in electron-
ics from Guangzhou University, Guangzhou, China,
in 2001, and the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the
School of Information Science and Technology, Sun
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, in 2014 and 2021,
respectively.
She is a Key Member of the International
Joint Research Center for Precision Agriculture
and Aviation Application Technology, Guangzhou,
China, and has been a Visiting Scholar with Texas
A&M University at College Station, College Station,
TX, USA. She has led three National Natural Science Foundation projects, one
National Key R&D Special Subproject, and several key projects in Guangdong
Province and Guangzhou City. Her research focuses on computer vision, drone
remote sensing, and intelligent edge technologies, with extensive experience
in intelligent orchard monitoring, decision-making, and unmanned operations.
Dr. Deng also serves as a guest editor for Remote Sensing and as a reviewer
for various international journals, including Computers and Electronics in
Agriculture.
Xiongzhe Han received the Ph.D. degree in biosys-
tems engineering from Seoul National University,
Seoul, South Korea, in 2017.
He then spent three years as a Postdoctoral
Research Associate and an Assistant Research
Scientist of Biological and Agricultural Engineering
with Texas A&M University at College Station,
College Station, TX, USA. He is currently an
Associate Professor of Biosystems Engineering with
Kangwon National University, Chuncheon, South
Korea, and an Adjunct Professor of Agricultural
and Biological Engineering with Mississippi State University, Starkville,
MA, USA. He has published over 50 papers in leading international jour-
nals and collaborates with institutions like China Agricultural University,
Zhejiang University, and Mississippi State University. His work is supported
by national agencies, including the Korean Research Foundation and the
Rural Development Administration of South Korea. His research focuses
on advanced technologies, such as automatic UAV spraying, autonomous
agricultural vehicles, and hyperspectral imaging for farmland analysis.
Yubin Lan received the bachelor’s degree in agri-
cultural machinery engineering and the master’s
and Doctoral degrees in agricultural machinery
engineering from Jilin University of Technology
(currently, Jilin University), Changchun, China, in
1982, 1984, and 1989, respectively, and a Doctoral
degree in agricultural engineering from Texas A&M
University at College Station, College Station, TX,
USA, in 1993.
He is the Dean of the School of Agricultural
Engineering and Food Science, Shandong University
of Technology, Zibo, China, and the Dean of the School of Electronic
Engineering (Artiﬁcial Intelligence), South China Agricultural University,
Guangzhou, China. He is an expert in the ﬁeld of precision agriculture
and aviation. He is mainly engaged in research in the ﬁeld of agricultural
engineering, including aviation pesticide technology, remote sensing tech-
nology, precision agriculture, grain harvesting machinery, grain processing
and storage, instrument, and sensor technology development and research.
He is advocating for the concept, technical route, and system of “precision
agriculture aviation,” conducting research and application combining remote
sensing and aviation pesticide application. His team leads the international
innovation of key technologies and equipment for precision agriculture
aviation, and has established the ﬁrst “ecological unmanned farm” in China.
Dr. Lan is an Academician of the European Academy of Sciences, Arts
and Humanities, a Foreign Academician of the Russian Academy of Natural
Sciences, a Foreign Academician of the Georgian National Academy of
Sciences, a Special Assistant to the President of Shandong University of
Technology.
Haiwei
Wu
received the bachelor’s degree in
network
engineering
from
Foshan
University,
Foshan, China, in 2021, and the master’s degree
in
engineering
from
the
School
of
Electronic
Engineering (Artiﬁcial Intelligence), South China
Agricultural University, Guangzhou, China, in 2023.
He has been focusing on research in the ﬁelds
of agricultural artiﬁcial intelligence and computer
vision, particularly on the application of object
tracking and counting technology in real-world
scenarios.
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:45:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
