machines
Article
Grape Berry Detection and Size Measurement Based on Edge
Image Processing and Geometric Morphology
Lufeng Luo 1, Wentao Liu 1, Qinghua Lu 1,*, Jinhai Wang 1, Weichang Wen 1, De Yan 1 and Yunchao Tang 2,3


Citation: Luo, L.; Liu, W.; Lu, Q.;
Wang, J.; Wen, W.; Yan, D.; Tang, Y.
Grape Berry Detection and Size
Measurement Based on Edge Image
Processing and Geometric
Morphology. Machines 2021, 9, 233.
https://doi.org/10.3390/
machines9100233
Academic Editor:
Antonios Gasteratos
Received: 9 September 2021
Accepted: 9 October 2021
Published: 13 October 2021
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral
with regard to jurisdictional claims in
published maps and institutional afﬁl-
iations.
Copyright: © 2021 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed
under
the
terms
and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
1
School of Mechatronics Engineering and Automation, Foshan University, Foshan 528000, China;
luolufeng@fosu.edu.cn (L.L.); liuwentao96@163.com (W.L.); cswjh@fosu.edu.cn (J.W.);
weichangwen806@163.com (W.W.); 2111951002@stu.fosu.edu.cn (D.Y.)
2
College of Urban and Rural Construction, Zhongkai University of Agriculture and Engineering,
Guangzhou 510225, China; ryan.twain@zhku.edu.cn
3
Foshan-Zhongke Innovation Research Institute of Intelligent Agriculture and Robotics, Foshan 528000, China
*
Correspondence: qhlu@fosu.edu.cn; Tel.: +86-186-6639-2056
Abstract: Counting grape berries and measuring their size can provide accurate data for robot
picking behavior decision-making, yield estimation, and quality evaluation. When grapes are picked,
there is a strong uncertainty in the external environment and the shape of the grapes. Counting
grape berries and measuring berry size are challenging tasks. Computer vision has made a huge
breakthrough in this ﬁeld. Although the detection method of grape berries based on 3D point cloud
information relies on scanning equipment to estimate the number and yield of grape berries, the
detection method is difﬁcult to generalize. Grape berry detection based on 2D images is an effective
method to solve this problem. However, it is difﬁcult for traditional algorithms to accurately measure
the berry size and other parameters, and there is still the problem of the low robustness of berry
counting. In response to the above problems, we propose a grape berry detection method based on
edge image processing and geometric morphology. The edge contour search and the corner detection
algorithm are introduced to detect the concave point position of the berry edge contour extracted
by the Canny algorithm to obtain the best contour segment. To correctly obtain the edge contour
information of each berry and reduce the error grouping of contour segments, this paper proposes an
algorithm for combining contour segments based on clustering search strategy and rotation direction
determination, which realizes the correct reorganization of the segmented contour segments, to
achieve an accurate calculation of the number of berries and an accurate measurement of their size.
The experimental results prove that our proposed method has an average accuracy of 87.76% for the
detection of the concave points of the edge contours of different types of grapes, which can achieve a
good edge contour segmentation. The average accuracy of the detection of the number of grapes
berries in this paper is 91.42%, which is 4.75% higher than that of the Hough transform. The average
error between the measured berry size and the actual berry size is 2.30 mm, and the maximum error
is 5.62 mm, which is within a reasonable range. The results prove that the method proposed in this
paper is robust enough to detect different types of grape berries.
Keywords: image processing; particle detection; pit detection; fast radial symmetric transformation;
cluster search; least square method
1. Introduction
The production scale and consumption of grapes are increasing year by year. Large-
scale mechanized production is gradually replacing labor [1,2]. Calculating the number of
berries in each bunch of grapes is a key component of estimating the yield of grapes, and the
ratio of the diameter to the volume of each bunch of grape berries is also one of the many
factors in evaluating the quality of grapes. Traditional detection is time-consuming and
can easily cause estimation errors. To improve its detection efﬁciency and detection quality,
researchers have been seeking solutions using computer vision and image processing [3–5].
Machines 2021, 9, 233. https://doi.org/10.3390/machines9100233
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/machines

Machines 2021, 9, 233
2 of 18
In recent years, there are mainly two methods based on 3D information and on 2D
images in the use of machine vision to estimate the number of grape berries [6,7]. Huerta [8]
and Rist [9] used 3D point cloud equipment to scan the 3D information of grape spikes to
obtain parameters such as the geometry and structure of the grapes to reconstruct the grape
phenotype to estimate the number of grape berries [10]. Although the detection accuracy
has been improved, they rely on the 3D scanning equipment in the laboratory to avoid
problems in complex environments. Kicherer used berry analysis tools to obtain 2D images
of the number, size, and volume of grape berries [11], but they are destructive and depend
on the perforated metal plate under laboratory conditions. Liu reconstructed 3D berries
based on the sparsity factor on the 2D color image of red grapes, with an average accuracy
of 87.6% [12], but they can only process conical or cylindrical grapes, and the radius of the
berries needs to be manually deﬁned using their method. Liu also designed software for
estimating the number of berries for a single image of black grapes and Niagara grapes,
but the robustness of the estimation of the number of grape berries is not high [13]. Aquino
proposed an algorithm based on mathematical morphology and pixel classiﬁcation for
berry characteristics [14,15]. Although these methods can estimate grape berries and grape
yield, the number of grape berries detected largely deviates from the true value.
With the rapid development of deep learning, a large-scale global map of orchard
picking can be obtained to adapt to the dynamic and complex orchard environment, and
also makes it possible to detect the number of grapes under complex conditions [16].
´Skrabánek proposed the DeepGrapes detection model [17] to improve the recognition
effect of grape berries at low resolution. Coviello designed a GBCNet network [18] with
VGG16 as the backbone for the detection of grape yield, but its detection effect was average.
In instance segmentation, Zabawa improved the recognition accuracy of grape berries by
introducing additional “edge” categories as its feature information [19,20]. Nellithimaru
proposed a new grape yield estimation method that combines instance segmentation and
SLAM to obtain grape information [21], which improves the accuracy. However, the above
mentioned deep neural network-based methods still have the problem of low robustness
when analyzing characterization information such as the size of grape berries from dense
and unconstrained grape images [22].
The size of the grape berries can provide important information for assessing the
stage of maturity. First, the background of a single bunch of grapes must be segmented
in a natural environment [23,24] to accurately identify the grape berries and accurately
detect the number and size of the berries and other characterization information [25,26].
Researchers have conducted a plethora of studies on this. Xiao proposed a method based
on brightness extreme value and edge information to detect red grapes, but it can only
detect fruit particles with the same radius and ﬁxed [27]. Liu Z proposed a method to detect
the size of fruit particles based on gradient features [28], which has a low recognition rate
for berries inside grapes. Zhou uses Hough transform to detect red grape berries [29], but
Hough transform has a lot of false detections. Both Cubero and Behera use edge information
to detect their size and other parameters, and their detection process is destructive to grape
berries [30,31]. For the precise detection of objects with disorderly stacked structures,
Langlard proposed a method based on pattern recognition, but its detection effect is very
poor when applied to disorderly stacked grape berries [32].
In the grape berry count and berry size measurement, the problems are that it cannot
be applied in a complex environment, the estimation accuracy of the number of berries is
not high, and the size of a single berry cannot be accurately measured [33]. We propose
an algorithm that can be used to detect various types of rounds or round-like grape
berries. The algorithm ﬁrst uses edge detection algorithms [34] and image preprocessing
methods to obtain grayscale images and binary images of a single bunch of Niagara grapes,
black grapes, and red grapes. According to the gradient value of the gray image, the
interest points on the grape berries are extracted [35,36], and then the berry edge sequence
(berry edge pixels) in the binary image is searched, and the berry edge is segmented into
contour segments by the concave point detection algorithm [37]. The continuous iterative

Machines 2021, 9, 233
3 of 18
calculation is performed on each section of contour to obtain the centroid point of the
contour [38], and then the berry edge contour section is correctly combined [39], and ﬁnally,
the grape berry is ﬁtted by least squares and its diameter is detected.
The remainder of this paper includes four sections. Section 2 introduces how to
collect data sets and image preprocessing methods. Section 3 introduces the edge contour
segmentation algorithm of berries. Section 4 introduces the grouping of contour segments
of grape berries. Section 5 introduces the experimental results and discusses them. Finally,
the conclusion is described in Section 6. The detection algorithm framework of grape
berries is shown in Figure 1.
Canny edge detection
Grayscale image
Bilateral filtering
preprocessing
Image Acquisition
Background segmentation of grapes
Local clustering search strategy and 
rotation direction judgment condition
Fitting the edges of grape berries
Pixel sequence search for 
edge contour
Calculation of the centroid point of 
the contour segments
Detection of concave points
Interest point extraction of 
grape berries
Number and diameter of grape berries
Figure 1. Detection algorithm framework of grape berries.
The contributions of this paper can be summarized as follows:
(1)
This work proposes a detection model for multiple types of rounds or round-like
grape berry counting and berry size. It solves the problem that the characterization
information of grape berries cannot be accurately detected.
(2)
Before the berry edge contour segment grouping strategy, the corner detection algo-
rithm and the fast radial symmetry change algorithm are introduced. These can help
realize the segmentation of the overlapping edges of berries.
(3)
This paper proposes an algorithm for combining contour segments based on cluster-
ing search strategy and rotation direction determination, which realizes the correct
reorganization of segmented contour segments. Finally, according to the obtained
edge information of a single berry, the berry is ﬁtted, and its size is estimated.
2. Datasets and Preprocessing
The grape images used in this experiment were collected from Guangdong Luonan
Ecological Park. The images of Niagara grapes, black grapes, and red grapes were taken in
clear weather conditions. According to the experimental requirements, this paper designed
an image acquisition system including a camera and tripod. The maximum resolution of the
camera is 1280 × 480; examples are shown in Figure 2. During image acquisition, Niagara

Machines 2021, 9, 233
4 of 18
grapes, black grapes, and red grapes with different plumpness were randomly photographed
at different angles and plant distances; examples are shown in Figure 3. Each time the grape
images are collected, they are named after the date of collection. A hundred images of each
type of grape are taken, resulting in a total of 300 images. The algorithm proposed in this
study corresponds to the written custom code, and then the Hough transform uses the code
library, and they are all written in MATLAB (version 2020b).
 
Figure 2. Shooting environment and equipment image.
 
Figure 3. The image of grape strings of various types.
A single grape is obtained after removing the background through the perfect back-
ground removal algorithm. To reduce interference effects such as noise on the grape berries,
this paper uses bilateral ﬁltering to remove the interference in the image while retaining
the edge information. The ﬁltered RGB image is converted into a gray image; examples
are shown in Figure 4b. According to the user-deﬁned threshold and standard deviation,
Canny edge detection model is applied to the gray image to extract the edge information
of grape berries. The ﬁnal effect is shown in Figure 4c.

Machines 2021, 9, 233
5 of 18
 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
Figure 4. Image preprocessing. (a) stands for original image; (b) stands for gray image; (c) stands for
edge information map of Canny detection.
3. Edge Contour Segmentation Algorithm of Berries
In this section, we describe the method of extracting points of interest on grape berries
and the method of segmenting overlapping edge contours based on the concave points on
the berries.
3.1. Interest Point Extraction
In the gray image, the potential points of interest in the grape berries are found
through Fast Radial Symmetry Transformation (FRST) [26,27]. The radius range of the
radial symmetry transformation is set to n. The pixel point p is compared with each
surrounding pixel point. If the point where the distance is n and the gradient direction g(p)
is the same as the positive inﬂuence point p+ve(p), the resulting expression is as follows:
p+ve(p) = p + r
 g(p)
∥g(p)∥n

(1)
If the opposite gradient direction is the negative inﬂuence point p−ve(p), the resulting
expression is as follows:
p−ve(p) = p −r
 g(p)
∥g(p)∥n

(2)
The r in the formula rounds each vector element to the nearest integer.
We then judge each pixel point. If it is a positive inﬂuence point, we add 1 at the
corresponding position of direction projection On and ∥g(p)∥at the corresponding po-
sition of amplitude projection Mn. If it is a negative inﬂuence point, we minus 1 at the
corresponding position of direction projection and ∥g(p)∥at the corresponding position of
amplitude projection. The formula is as follows:
On(p+ve(p)) = On(p+ve(p)) + 1
(3)
On(p−ve(p)) = On(p−ve(p)) −1
(4)
Mn(p+ve(p)) = Mn(p+ve(p)) + ∥g(p)∥
(5)

Machines 2021, 9, 233
6 of 18
Mn(p−ve(p)) = Mn(p−ve(p)) −∥g(p)∥
(6)
We calculate On and Mn and add a two-dimensional Gaussian ﬁlter An to obtain
Sn, which makes the points of interest more obvious. Combining Sn forms a radial ﬁlter
responder S to obtain potential points of interest for the berries. The formula is as follows:
Sn = An
Mn(p)
kn


 eOn(p)

kn


2
, eOn(p) =
 On(p) On(p) < kn
kn
, kn =
 8
n = 1
9.9
(7)
S = maxn∈NSn
(8)
3.2. Segmentation of Overlapping Edges of Berries
This paper uses the edge contour search algorithm to ﬁnd the edge information of the
berry, under the binary image obtained by the Canny edge detection. Then, the concave
points between overlapping berries are identiﬁed by the corner recognition algorithm
based on adaptive dynamic curvature, and then the berry edge contour is divided into
contour segments according to the concave point position.
3.2.1. Pixel Sequence Search for Edge Contour of Grape Berry
A 3 × 3 mask is created with the position of the ﬁrst edge pixel on the leftmost side of
the binary image as the center. Then, the edge pixels of the berries are searched for on the
binary image according to the vertical search method. The template is moved, and the next
boundary pixel P obtained from the search is placed in the center of the mask. An example
of pixel sequence search for the edge contour of a grape berry is shown in Figure 5.
(Mask)
 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
Figure 5. An example of edge contour segmentation algorithm of berries. (a) stands for binary graph;
(b) stands for local image, the red dot is the center of the mask, and the red and gray arrows indicate
the search direction; (c) Search results with different colors representing edge contours.
The search step is repeated to until all berry edge pixels are searched. Since the
searched berry edge sequence contains the noise of small connected regions, they are
subsequently removed.
3.2.2. Detection of Concave Points between Overlapping Berries
The grape berries overlap each other, and the concave point of the overlapping
part of the outline corresponds to the intersection between the grape berries. For the
pixel sequence extracted from the edge contour of the grape berry in the previous step,
C = {C1, C2, ···, Ch}, the curvature scale space corner detection algorithm with adaptive
threshold and dynamic support area is used. Firstly, at a low scale, the contour point C
is convolved with the Gaussian function g(c, σ), and then the curvature K of the contour
is calculated. The point with the maximum local curvature on the contour is taken as the
candidate point. The deﬁnition of curvature K is as follows:
X(c, σ) = x(c) · g(c, σ), Y(c, σ) = y(c) · g(c, σ)
(9)

Machines 2021, 9, 233
7 of 18
K(c, σ) =
.
X(c, σ)
..
Y(c, σ) −
..
X(c, σ)
.
Y(c, σ)
 .
X(c, σ)2 −
.
Y(c, σ)23/2
(10)
where x, y represents the coordinate position of the contour point. σ represents the scale
deviation.
.
X,
.
Y is the ﬁrst partial derivative with respect to σ.
..
X,
..
Y is the second partial
derivative with respect to σ.
Then, the mean curvature of candidate points in the dynamic support area are calcu-
lated, and then the adaptive threshold is set according to the mean curvature. Finally, the
best concave point is selected according to the threshold and angle range. The deﬁnition is
as follows:
K =
1
L1 + L2 + 1
c+Ll
∑
c−L2
K
(11)
TK(u) = 1.5 × K
(12)
where u is the candidate point, k is the mean value of the curvature of u in the dynamic
support area, and L1 and L2 are the size of the dynamic support area.
We then divide the contour of the berry edge into a contour segment with the concave
point as the boundary. The grape contour segment should resemble a circular arc with
smooth curvature value changes, but the interference of noise causes some edge curvature
values to change strangely. Therefore, we compare the curvature values of each point of
each contour with the curvature values of the previous pixel and the next pixel. If the
difference is greater than a certain threshold, it is a singular point. According to our many
experimental tests, the best threshold is set to 0.015. The segmentation effect of berry edge
contours with different degrees of overlap is shown in Figure 6.
 
(a) 
(b) 
 
(c) 
(d) 
Figure 6. Concave point detection and edge contour segmentation of grape berries with different
overlapping degrees. (a,b) are the berry edge contours with different degrees of overlap. The red
points on (c,d) indicate the division points of the grape contour.

Machines 2021, 9, 233
8 of 18
4. Correct Grouping of Contour Segments of Grape Berries
In this section, the calculation method of the centroid point of the contour segment
is based on the random sampling consensus algorithm [29]. The local clustering search
strategy and the rotation direction judgment condition are described to combine the contour
segments of the same berry.
4.1. Calculation of the Centroid Point of the Contour Segments
Due to the irregular overlap between grape berries and incomplete edge information
of some berries, the same grape berry detected in the previous section may be divided into
multi-segment contours. In this paper, an algorithm based on random sampling consensus
is used to calculate the centroid points and the direction of the contour of each segment.
The contour segment of the edge of the grape berry is like a circular arc. S = {s1,s2,· · · ,sN}
is N sets of samples of contour segment. In a circular arc, three points that are not adjacent are
selected arbitrarily to determine whether the three points are collinear, and if they are collinear,
three points are randomly selected again. Assuming that A, B and C are three non-collinear points
on an arc, a triangle is constructed from these three points. The intersection of the perpendicular
bisector of the line segment AB and BC is the center of the circumcircle of the triangle, the
center point is O(x,y), and the radius is r. The vector
⇀
DO of any point D on the contour Si is
directed to the centroid of the grape berry; an example is shown in Figure 7a. According to the
random sampling consensus algorithm, it is estimated that the highest quality center point of the
contour segment contains the most pixels and the closest point of interest; an example is shown
in Figure 7b.
A
B
C
O
r
D
A
B
C
O
r
D
 Interest point
 Interest point
 
(a). Construct a triangle 
(b). The center of each segment 
Figure 7. The centroid point of the contour segment is calculated. The direction vector is represented
by the red arrow.
4.2. Local Clustering Search Strategy and Rotation Direction Judgment Condition
To eliminate the potential false classiﬁcation contour segments, this paper uses the
local clustering search and rotation direction judgment method to combine all the contour
segments belonging to the same grape, and then ﬁts each group of contour segments by the
least square method. Finally, according to the ﬁtting results, the number of grape berries is
calculated, and the diameter of the berries is measured.
This paper deﬁnes the clustering search allocation strategy of the contour segment
samples. We calculate the Euclidean distance between the centroid point of each contour
segment O = {O1, O2, · · · , ON} and each point of interest, search all centroid points in the
local range of the point of interest, and then mark the centroid point closest to the point
of interest and the contour segment corresponding to the centroid point. Fuzzy search is
performed in the local range of the marked centroid point. We search for the centroid point

Machines 2021, 9, 233
9 of 18
that satisﬁes the radius r of the contour segment within rj −R1 ≤r ≤rj + R1 and is closest
to the marked centroid point and mark this centroid point and its contour segment. If there
is no point of interest in a certain berry, we directly perform a fuzzy search. The formula is
as follows:
dij = min∥ei −0j∥2
2 < Td ∪rj + R1 < r < rj + R2
(13)
where ei represents the point of interest, Oj represents the center point, Td represents the
range of the local search, r should be the distance from the marked point to the marked
contour segment, and R1 is the optimal adaptive range that satisﬁes r.
We continue to iterate with this search strategy method to obtain a set of contour segments
ωi, i ∈M, and then calculate the center of mass µi of the group ωi, the formula is as follows.
After searching, all contour segments are grouped into ω = {ω1, ω2,· · · , ωM}, M < N.
µi =
1
|m| ∑
O∈ωi
O
(14)
where m is the number of contour segments in the group.
Assuming that the starting point of any section of contour in ωi is a and the endpoint
is b, the rotation angle and direction of the two-dimensional vector l1(µ, a) to the two-
dimensional vector l2(µ, b) can be obtained. The formula is as follows.
div(l1, l2) =
l1(µ, a)l2(µ, b)
∥l1(µ, a)∥∥l2(µ, b)∥
(15)
dir(l1, l2) = l1(µ, a) × l2(µ, b)
(16)
The direction of the vector
⇀
l1 to the vector
⇀
l2 is used to determine whether the rotation
direction of the contour is clockwise or counterclockwise. We know that the rotation
direction of any continuous point of the closed curve is the same. We deﬁne the rotation
direction of the contour si in ωi to be positive. Then, we search for the nearest contour si+1
around the endpoint b of the contour segment si in the ωi group. The point close to the
endpoint b is the starting point of the contour line segment si+1. After that, we calculate
the rotation angle and rotation direction that vector l2(µ, b) to the start point of si+1, and
determine the rotation direction. If it is positive, it is the same grape berry contour. If it is
negative, it satisﬁes that the rotation angle that l2(µ, b) to the start point of si+1 is less than
8◦, the rotation direction that l2(µ, b) to the endpoint of si+1 is positive, and the rotation
angle that l2(µ, b) to the endpoint of si+1 is greater than 50◦, it is the same grape berry
contour. Otherwise, it is not the same berry contour. Under this search strategy, the contour
segments of the same grape berry are grouped together; examples are shown in Figure 8.
Finally, each group is a partial outline of a grape berry. Because the edge information
of grape berries is not sufﬁcient, we need to infer the outline of the occluded or missing
part of the grape through the existing contour segment. The classic least-squares ﬁtting
method can ﬁt the object by observing part of the information of the object. We calculate
the number of grape berries based on the ﬁtting results and then detect their complete size
and other characterization information.

Machines 2021, 9, 233
10 of 18
 
(a) 
(b) 
+
+
+
ϴ1
-
2
3
4
5
+
a
b
1
µ1
µ2
ϴ2
ϴ3
ϴ4
 
(c) 
(d) 
Figure 8. Schematic diagram of the local clustering search strategy and rotation direction judgment
condition. (a) is to ﬁnd the closest point from the point of interest, (b) is divided into two categories
according to the search range and radius, (c) is the judgment of the false classiﬁcation segment
according to the rotation direction and rotation angle, (d) is the ﬁnal contour grouping. Different
groups are a different color, the dotted line is the local search range, the red arrow indicates the
direction of rotation, and (θ1, θ2, θ3, θ4) is the angle of rotation.
5. Experiment Results and Discussion
5.1. Performance Measurement Evaluation Index
To verify that this method can correctly detect grape berries in the overlapping state,
this paper uses a total of 300 pictures of three different types of grapes for evaluation
experiments. We use the Positive Predictive Value (PPV), True Positive Rate (TPR), and the
Average Distance of pixel (AD) from the detection point to the real point as the index to
evaluate the performance of grape and berry contour segmentation. The Average Jaccard
Similarity Coefﬁcient (AJSC) is used as an indicator to evaluate the detection effect of
berries on grape spikes. The formula is as follows:
PPV =
TP
TP + FP
(17)
TPR =
TP
TP + FN
(18)
JSC = Es ∩Et
Es ∪Et
(19)
AJSC = 1
ε
ε
∑
i=1
JSC
(20)
where TP is the true-positive rate, that is, the number of correct detections. FP is the
false-positive rate, that is, the number of errors in detection. FN is the false-negative rate,
that is, the number that is undetected. It is determined that the distance from the calculated

Machines 2021, 9, 233
11 of 18
concave point to the actual concave point is within the predeﬁned threshold ρ1, then it is
determined that it is a correctly detected concave point (TP), and the threshold is set to
2 pixels. ES is the predicted value, which is the detected grape berry; Et is the true value,
which is the real grape berry. In this paper, the threshold of the JSC overlap ratio is set to
0.5. ε is the number of samples, that is, the number of grape berries.
The size of the detected berry is the pixel size. The system is calibrated through
the calibration board, the conversion coefﬁcient is determined as Γ, and the pixel size is
converted into the actual size in the space, the formula is as follows. It is compared with
the manual measurement of the real size of the grape berry to verify the accuracy of the
measurement of the size of the grape berry.
Γ = ps
pd
(21)
PS = Γ · PD
(22)
where ps is the actual size of the calibration tool. pd is the pixel size of the calibration tool.
Γ is the conversion coefﬁcient after calibration. PS is the actual size of the grape berry. PD is
the pixel size of the grape berry.
5.2. Analysis of the Concave Ppoint Detection of Different Types of Grapes
Table 1 veriﬁes the feasibility and practicability of the method in this paper to segment
different types of grape contour segments. On 300 grape cluster samples, we analyze
the performance of the corner detection algorithm with adaptive threshold and dynamic
support for regional curvature through PPV, TPR, and AD.
Table 1. Detection and analysis of pits of different types of grape berries.
Grape Type
TPR/%
PPV/%
AD/Pixel
Red grape
90.47
82.97
3.47
Black grape
85.21
94.23
3.01
Niagara grape
87.61
92.92
3.34
It can be seen from the results that after Canny edge detection and grape berry edge
contour sequence search, the TPR value of the concave point detected by the red grape is
the highest, which is 90.47%, but its PPV value is lower, which is 82.97%. The main reason
for this is that compared with other grapes, the red grape has a larger berry size and a
larger gap between the berry and the berry, so the accuracy rate is high. For the red grape
berries in the shadow area, the surface color is similar, and the texture information is weak,
resulting in a relatively small gradient value of the contour edge, so relatively complete
edge information cannot be detected. Therefore, the red grape has a false negative rate
during the concave point detection.
The test results show that the PPV evaluation values of Niagara grapes and black
grapes are similar, reaching 94.23% and 92.92%, respectively. However, for black grapes and
Niagara grapes, the area covered by individual berries exceeds 94%, and the local curvature
between individual berries is not the largest, so the concave point cannot be detected. As
long as the TPR is lower than that of red grapes, black grape berries or Niagara grape
berries overlap closely, causing the berries to be compressed and deformed. Although we
removed most of the stains through ﬁltering algorithms and small connected areas, and
also used edge curvature thresholds to make the contour segments relatively smooth to
reduce the impact of compression deformation, because the noise is dense, it cannot be
completely ﬁltered out. These conditions affect the judgment of the algorithm, and the
noise is detected as false concave point. The TPR values of black grapes and Niagara grapes
were 85.21% and 87.61%, respectively. In terms of the average pixel distance between the
detection point and the real point, AD of all grapes is less than 3.5 pixel. The algorithm

Machines 2021, 9, 233
12 of 18
can accurately detect and achieve high detection accuracy for the concave point areas of
various types of grapes.
Through the analysis mentioned above, it can be concluded that the surface color
and texture at the intersection of the two grapes, the noise of the grapes, and the tight-
ness between the grapes all have an inﬂuence on the correct detection of the grape edge
information. The result of the contour segment detection proposed in this paper is shown
in Figure 9. For each noise ﬁltering stage, a large amount of noise is eliminated, which
increases the accuracy of identifying grape contours. This method can correctly detect
each segment of grape contours in most case. It is also very robust to the detection effect
with a high degree of overlap and obvious fruit-grain intersections, and the location of the
detection points is reasonable.
 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
 
(d) 
(e) 
(f) 
Figure 9. Different types of grape berry contour segment differentiation graph. (a) is a binary map
of red grapes, (d) is a detection map of red grapes contour pits, (b) is a binary map of purple-black
grapes, and (e) is a pit detection map of purple-black grapes. (c) is the binary map of green grapes,
(f) is the detection map of the contour pits of the green grapes, and the red dots represent the ﬁnal
pits of the contour segment of the grapes.
Although a very small part of the noise edges is classiﬁed as an effective contour
segment and the grape contour segments shorter than the correctly detected grape contour
segments are removed due to the increase in accuracy, the detection result still matches the
original image. It shows that in terms of the segment the contour segments of different types
of grapes, the proposed algorithm in this paper has very high robustness and accuracy.
5.3. Analysis of the Results of Checking the Number of Berries on Grape
In order to further verify the actual berry number detection effect of the proposed
algorithm under different types of grapes, in this experiment, three types of grapes with
different numbers, different sizes, different shapes, and different overlapping densities

Machines 2021, 9, 233
13 of 18
were selected and compared with Hough transform to detect grape berries. The edge
threshold and sensitivity of the Hough transform were adjusted precisely for different
types of grapes. The speciﬁc process and results of this algorithm are shown in Figure 10.
The centroid points of the segmented grape berry contour segments were calculated,
and different contour segments were marked with different colors; examples are shown
in Figure 10f.
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
(d) 
(e) 
(f) 
(g) 
(h) 
(i) 
Figure 10. Model detection effect and comparison diagram under different types of grapes. (b), “·”represents the point of
interest of the fruit; The green dashed frame and the red dashed frame of (e) respectively represent the noise and undetected
pits that are mistaken for the edge of the grape, and the red dots indicate the position of the detected pits; The blue dashed
box in (f) indicates the position of the edge arc segment with too little information, the blue dot indicates the position of the
centroid point calculated by the contour segment, and the contour segments of different colors indicate different segmented
contour segments; The contour segments of different colors in (g) represent the contours of different groups of fruit grains,
and “·” represents the position of the center point calculated for each group of contour segments; The red circles in (h,i)
respectively represent the particles detected by the method in this paper and the particles detected by the Hough transform.
Due to the excessive covering and compression between the grape berries, the berries
are deformed, so different contour segments on the same berry will produce deviations
and interference occurs between the contour segments of different berries. Under the
same conditions, different R1 values have different effects on the grouping performance of
contour segments. The inﬂuence of r on the detection effect is shown in Figure 11.
The analysis shows that different R1 has different effects on the TPR of grape berries.
If the R1 value is too small, the same berry contour segment will be divided into different
groups, and the number of berries will be incorrectly detected, leading to the decrease of
TPR. If the R1 value is too large, the contour segments of non-berries will be divided into
one group, resulting in inaccurate berry detection. R1 value in the range of [25,35] can
accurately divide the contour segment of the same grape berry into a group that reduce
the error grouping, and the estimated centroid is also very close to the center of the grape
berry. Therefore, the search strategy in this paper can limit the relevance of search objects
and provide an accurate grouping of contour segments.
By mapping, the grape berries detected in this paper and the grape berries detected
by the Hough transform model to the original Figure 10a and compared with the actual
grape berries on the original image; the mapping results are shown in Figure 10h,i. The
detection performance of the two models on different types of grape berry was compared
and analyzed, and the results are presented in Table 2.

Machines 2021, 9, 233
14 of 18
0
10
20
30
40
50
55
60
65
70
75
80
85
90
95
TPR (%)
R1 (pixel)
 Niagara grapes
 red grapes
 black grapes
 
Figure 11. Effect of different R1 on grape pulp detection. R1 is the fuzzy search range near the marked
centroid point.
Table 2. Comparison of detection results of different methods on various grape berries.
Methods
Grape Type
TPR/%
PPV/%
AJSC/%
Time/s
our Algorithm
Red grape
92.15
87.59
88.33
17.848
Black grape
90.63
84.61
90.46
36.651
Niagara grape
91.48
86.23
86.29
42.433
Hough transform
detection circle
Red grape
84.71
76.46
86.91
7.389
Black grape
87.49
83.08
88.17
5.796
Niagara grape
87.80
81.79
86.36
7.067
It can be concluded from Table 2 that this method has the highest TPR and PPV scores
for red grapes, which are 92.15% and 87.59%, respectively. Compared with Niagara grapes
and black grapes, the noise of red grapes is less mistaken for contour segments, the area
covered by other berries is smaller, and the number of berries per bunch is also less than
that of other types of grapes. For red grapes, the TPR score of the precisely adjusted Hough
transform model is 84.71%, and the PPV score is 76.46%. Compared with the Hough
transform model, the model in this paper increases the TPR by 7.44% and the PPV by
11.13%. Through AJSC, it can be seen that the AJSC coefﬁcient of the black grape berries
reaches 90.46%, which is 2.29% higher than the Hough transform detection. The AJSC of
black grapes is higher than that of Niagara grapes and red grapes because the shape of
black grapes is closer to round than that of red grapes and Niagara grapes. The ﬁtting
result of the contour segment is closer to the contour of the real fruit. The recognition speed
of red grapes is 17.848 s, and the recognition speed of black grapes and Niagara grapes is
about 40 s. However, the recognition speed of this algorithm is still much slower than the
Hough transform, which is 10.459 s, 30.855 s, and 35.366 s, respectively.
Through the analysis, it can be concluded that the reasons for the detection errors in
the detection of the algorithm in this paper are the following. In the process of grouping
grape berry contour segments, too large noise edges are mistaken as grape contour edges;
examples are shown in the green dashed box in Figure 10e. Due to the stacking and
squeezing of grapes berries, the contours show irregular arcs. During the calculation of
the arcs, the center points of the arc segments of the same fruit are too far apart and the
radius difference is too large, so they are not divided into a group in the end; examples are
shown in the medium blue dotted box in Figure 10f. Moreover, for grape berries with the
too-large, obscured area, information of the edge is too small, which leads to the inaccurate
ﬁtting of individual grape berries.
There are two main reasons why some grape berries are not detected. First, the
information of the edge contour segment of the grape berry is too small and is removed

Machines 2021, 9, 233
15 of 18
as noise. Second, the local maximum curvature of the fruit-grain intersection area is not
obvious, and the concave point is not detected; examples are shown in the red dashed box
in Figure 10e.
Because the algorithm in this paper performs a large number of calculations on each
detected edge pixel, different types of grapes are different in size and quantity, resulting
in different calculation speeds. Red grapes have fewer berries and fewer pixels, so the
recognition speed is faster than that for black grapes and green grapes.
After the model is calculated, the contour segments of the same berry are marked with
the same color, and different fruit pieces are distinguished by different colors; examples are
shown in Figure 10g. The results of this experiment can show that for grapes of different
types, different numbers of berries, different fruit sizes, different fruit shapes, and different
overlapping densities, the number of grape berries can be accurately detected. As long as
the edge contour can be detected and the contour segments can be accurately grouped,
then the number of grape berries can be detected, as well as their location.
Compared with other methods, the grape berry detection method in this paper has
high robustness to various types of irregularly overlapping and highly dense grape berries
in most cases, but the detection speed is slower.
5.4. Discussion of Method Limitations
The method in this paper is to use computer vision to solve the round or quasi-circular
grape berry counting and size measurement. For the detection of non-circular berries, the
detection effect may not be the same as that of round or quasi-circular berries. Therefore,
the elongated shape of grapes was tested. Taking typical ARRA grapes as an example,
the robustness of the method is veriﬁed by detecting grape berries of different shapes.
Figure 12 shows that for the elongated grape berries, the performance of our algorithm
is weakened.
 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
Figure 12. The model test results of ARRA grape berries. (a) is original image, (b) is contour segment
calculation, (c) is contour segment combination. The red dot represents the concave point of the
contour line segment of the grape berry; the blue dot represents the position of the centroid point
of the contour segment; “✴” represents the position of the center point calculated for each group of
contour line segments; different contour line segments are marked with different colors.
Firstly, the algorithm can detect the edge information of ARRA grapes and ﬁlter
out most of the non-berry edge information such as stains and obtain relatively clear
slender grape berries edges. However, for ARRA grapes, some areas with larger stains
or darker shades cannot be eliminated by ﬁltering algorithms and small connected area
elimination algorithms. The edge contours of these areas will be classiﬁed as effective
contours. Secondly, the overlapping part of the berry can accurately estimate the position
of its concave point through the curvature algorithm, and then remove the singular pixels
that are not smooth in the contour segment. However, because the edge of the berry is not
in a circular arc shape and the local maximum curvature of the partially intersecting area
is not obvious, it cannot accurately detect its concave point. Finally, the local clustering
search strategy and the rotation direction judgment condition are to determine the berry
group of the contour segment based on the arc information of the round berry. The edge

Machines 2021, 9, 233
16 of 18
information of the slender grape berry presents an irregular shape. The algorithm in this
paper cannot accurately combine the contour segments for the same berry.
In summary, the performance of the method in this paper has limitations on slender
grape berries, and it is robust on rounds or round-like grape berries.
5.5. Berry Size Detection and Analysis on the Grape
Due to the camera, distance and other factors have an impact on the conversion of
pixel size to actual size in space. This experiment uses the same camera, and the distance
between the grape and the camera is constant. The conversion coefﬁcient Γ is obtained
through calibration, and then the system is veriﬁed by inverse inspection to determine that
the error is less than 0.1 mm, and the system has good stability. We detected the actual
berry size of each type of grape in space in a laboratory environment and compared the
size of the berry detected in the randomly selected grape image with the size of the grape
berry detected manually. The results are shown in Table 3.
Table 3. Comparison of the test results of grape berry size.
Number
Manual Detection
Diameter/mm
Image Detection
Diameter/mm
Diameter Error/mm
1
24.80
24.52
0.28
2
28.11
30.61
2.5
3
28.26
33.88
5.62
4
24.79
26.09
1.3
5
26.17
27.94
1.77
6
27.77
27.46
0.31
7
26.04
24.09
1.95
8
28.07
31.62
3.55
9
26.06
23.74
2.32
10
27.42
30.78
3.36
Average
2.30
Max
5.62
Through the analysis of Table 3, it can be concluded that the average error between
the size of the grape berry by the method and the actual berry size measured is 2.30 mm in
different samples of grapes, and the maximum error is 5.62 mm. According to statistical
data, it can be found that the average error of the berry size detected by the method in this
paper is relatively small, and the detection error of the berry size is relatively large when
the berry outline information is less.
In general, the grape berry detection method in this article can measure the size of
grape berries relatively accurately.
6. Conclusions
Based on the berry edge contour of a single grape after removing the background,
this paper constructs a grape berry detection method based on concave point detection
and optimal contour segment clustering. The speciﬁc conclusions are as follows. Bilateral
ﬁltering is used to remove interference noise, and Canny algorithm is used to extract
grape edge contours. It is proposed to search through the pixel sequence of the edge
contour of the grape berry, and then segment the berry contour segment by detecting
the intersection between the overlapping grape berries. The average precision rate for
different types of grapes is 87.76%, and the average recall rate is 90.04%; for red grapes The
TPR of grapes is the highest, reaching 90.47%; the PPV of the black grapes is the highest,
reaching 94.23%. It is proposed to combine the contour segments belonging to the same
berry according to the points of interest and judgment conditions of the grape berries.
When the value of R_1 is between [25,35], the contour segments of grape berries can be
accurately combined. Compared with the Hough transform, the TPR of red grape berries

Machines 2021, 9, 233
17 of 18
increased by 7.44%, and the PPV increased by 11.13%; the AJSC of purple grape berries
increased by 2.29%. According to the obtained grape contour, the berry size is measured
and converted into the actual berry size in the space. Compared with the real berry size,
the average error is 2.30 mm, and the maximum error is 5.62 mm. In summary, the method
proposed in this paper can detect characterization information such as the number and
size of round or round-like grape berries in the natural environment. Although the noise,
the degree of occlusion, and the curvature of the intersection will have a certain impact on
the detection results, the detection accuracy of grape berries is improved. We can conclude
that this method provides support for accurately estimating the weight, yield, and quality
of individual grapes through visual perception technology in a natural environment.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization and methodology, L.L. and W.L.; writing, L.L. and W.L.;
experiment, W.L., D.Y. and W.W.; review and editing, L.L. and Q.L.; supervision, J.W. and Y.T.; funding
acquisition, L.L. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This work was supported in part by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under
Grant 32171909, 51705365, the Guangdong Basic and Applied Basic Research Foundation under Grant
2020B1515120050, 2020B1515120070, the Guangdong key R & D Projects Grant 2020B0404030001 and
the Scientific Research Projects of Universities in Guangdong Province under Grants 2019KTSCX197,
2018KZDXM074, and 2020KCXTD015.
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.
Acknowledgments: We sincerely acknowledge the project funding support. We are also grateful for
the efforts of all our colleagues.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
References
1.
Luo, L.; Zou, X.; Wang, C.; Chen, X.; Situ, W. Recognition method for two overlaping and adjacent grape clusters based on image
contour analysis. Trans. Chin. Soc. Agric. Mach. 2017, 48, 15–22.
2.
Rahman, S.M.M. Machine Learning-Based Cognitive Position and Force Controls for Power-Assisted Human-Robot Collaborative
Manipulation. Machines 2021, 9, 28. [CrossRef]
3.
Lu, Q.H.; Zhang, X.M. Multiresolution edge detection in noisy images using wavelet transform. In Proceedings of the 2005 IEEE
International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics (ICMLC), Guangzhou, China, 18–21 August 2005; pp. 5235–5240.
4.
Balducci, F.; Impedovo, D.; Pirlo, G. Machine Learning Applications on Agricultural Datasets for Smart Farm Enhancement.
Machines 2018, 6, 38. [CrossRef]
5.
Studer, S.; Bui, T.B.; Drescher, C.; Hanuschkin, A.; Winkler, L.; Peters, S.; Müller, K.-R. Towards CRISP-ML(Q): A Machine
Learning Process Model with Quality Assurance Methodology. Mach. Learn. Knowl. Extr. 2021, 3, 392–413. [CrossRef]
6.
Aghi, D.; Mazzia, V.; Chiaberge, M. Local Motion Planner for Autonomous Navigation in Vineyards with a RGB-D Camera-Based
Algorithm and Deep Learning Synergy. Machines 2020, 8, 27. [CrossRef]
7.
Tang, Y.; Chen, M.; Wang, C.; Luo, L.; Li, J.; Lian, G.; Zou, X. Recognition and localization methods for vision-based fruit picking
robots: A review. Front. Plant Sci. 2020, 11, 510. [CrossRef]
8.
Huerta, M.H.; Aguilera, D.G.; Gonzalvez, P.R.; López, D.R. Vineyard yield estimation by automatic 3D bunch modelling in ﬁeld
conditions. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2015, 110, 17–26. [CrossRef]
9.
Rist, F.; Herzog, K.; Mack, J.; Richter, R.; Steinhage, V.; Töpfer, R. High-precision phenotyping of grape bunch architecture using
fast 3D sensor and automation. Sensors 2018, 18, 763. [CrossRef]
10.
Schöler, F.; Steinhage, V. Automated 3D reconstruction of grape cluster architecture from sensor data for efﬁcient phenotyping.
Comput. Electron. Agric. 2015, 114, 163–177. [CrossRef]
11.
Kicherer, A.; Roscher, R.; Herzog, K.; Šimon, S.; Förstner, W.; Töpfer, R. BAT (Berry Analysis Tool): A high-throughput image
interpretation tool to acquire the number, diameter, and volume of grapevine berries. Vitis-J. Grapevine Res. 2013, 52, 129–135.
12.
Liu, S.; Whitty, M.; Cossell, S. A lightweight method for grape berry counting based on automated 3D bunch reconstruction from
a single image. In Proceedings of the 2015 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), Workshop on
Robotics in Agriculture, Seattle, WA, USA, 26–30 May 2015; p. 3.
13.
Liu, S.; Zeng, X.; Whitty, M. 3DBunch: A novel iOS-smartphone application to evaluate the number of grape berries per bunch
using image analysis techniques. IEEE Access 2020, 8, 114663–114674. [CrossRef]

Machines 2021, 9, 233
18 of 18
14.
Aquino, A.; Diago, M.P.; Millán, B.; Tardáguila, J. A new methodology for estimating the grapevine-berry number per cluster
using image analysis. Biosyst. Eng. 2017, 156, 80–95. [CrossRef]
15.
Aquino, A.; Barrio, I.; Diago, M.P.; Millan, B.; Tardaguila, J. vitisBerry: An Android-smartphone application to early evaluate the
number of grapevine berries by means of image analysis. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2018, 148, 19–28. [CrossRef]
16.
Chen, M.; Tang, Y.; Zou, X.; Huang, Z.; Zhou, H.; Chen, S. 3D global mapping of large-scale unstructured orchard integrating
eye-in-hand stereo vision and SLAM. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2021, 187, 106237. [CrossRef]
17.
´Skrabánek, P. DeepGrapes: Precise Detection of Grapes in Low-resolution Images. IFAC-PapersOnLine 2018, 51, 185–189.
[CrossRef]
18.
Coviello, L.; Cristoforetti, M.; Jurman, G.; Furlanello, C. GBCNet: In-Field Grape Berries Counting for Yield Estimation by Dilated
CNNs. Appl. Sci. 2020, 10, 4870. [CrossRef]
19.
Zabawa, L.; Kicherer, A.; Klingbeil, L.; Töpfer, R.; Kuhlmann, H.; Roscher, R. Counting of grapevine berries in images via semantic
segmentation using convolutional neural networks. ISPRS J. Photogramm. Remote Sens. 2020, 164, 73–83. [CrossRef]
20.
Zabawa, L.; Kicherer, A.; Klingbeil, L.; Milioto, A.; Topfer, R.; Kuhlmann, H.; Roscher, R. Detection of single grapevine berries in
images using fully convolutional neural networks. In Proceedings of the 2019 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition Workshops (CVPR), Long Beach, CA, USA, 15–20 June 2019; pp. 2571–2579.
21.
Nellithimaru, A.K.; Kantor, G.A. ROLS: Robust Object-level SLAM for grape counting. In Proceedings of the 2019 IEEE/CVF Con-
ference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Workshops (CVPR), Long Beach, CA, USA, 15–20 June 2019; pp. 2648–2656.
22.
Zafar, M.R.; Khan, N. Deterministic Local Interpretable Model-Agnostic Explanations for Stable Explainability. Mach. Learn.
Knowl. Extr. 2021, 3, 525–541. [CrossRef]
23.
Luo, L.; Tang, Y.; Zou, X.; Wang, C.; Zhang, P.; Feng, W. Robust grape cluster detection in a vineyard by combining the Adaboost
framework and multiple color components. Sensors 2016, 16, 2098. [CrossRef]
24.
Luo, L.; Tang, Y.; Zou, X.; Ye, M.; Feng, W.; Li, G. Vision-based extraction of spatial information in grape clusters for harvesting
robots. Biosyst. Eng. 2016, 151, 90–104. [CrossRef]
25.
Feng, J.; Li, X.; Yuan, B.; Mu, W. Progress and trend of fruit detection by intelligent sensory technology. J. South. Agric. 2020, 51,
636–644.
26.
Luo, L.; Zou, X.; Xiong, J.; Zhang, Y.; Peng, H.; Lin, G. Automatic positioning for picking point of grape picking robot in natural
environment. Trans. Chin. Soc. Agric. Eng. 2015, 31, 14–21.
27.
Xiao, Z.; Wang, Q.; Wang, B.; Xu, F.; Yang, P.; Li, L. A method for detecting and grading ‘Red Globe’ grape bunches based on
digital images and random least squares. Food Sci. 2018, 39, 60–66.
28.
Liu, Z.H. Image-based detection method of kyoho grape fruit size research. Master’s Thesis, Northeast Forestry University,
Harbin, Heilongjiang, China, 1 June 2019.
29.
Zhou, W.J.; Zha, Z.H.; Wu, J. Maturity discrimination of “Red Globe” grape cluster in grapery by improved circle Hough
transform. Trans. Chin. Soc. Agric. Eng. 2020, 36, 205–213.
30.
Cubero, S.; Diago, M.P.; Blasco, J.; Tardáguila, J.; Millán, B.; Aleixos, N. A new method for pedicel/peduncle detection and size
assessment of grapevine berries and other fruits by image analysis. Biosyst. Eng. 2014, 117, 62–72. [CrossRef]
31.
Behera, S.; Mahapatra, A.; Rath, A.; Sethy, P. Classiﬁcation & grading of tomatoes using image processing techniques. Int. J. Innov.
Technol. Explor. Eng. 2019, 8, 545.
32.
Langlard, M.D.; Al-Saddik, H.; Charton, S.; Debayle, J.; Lamadie, F. An efﬁciency improved recognition algorithm for highly
overlapping ellipses: Application to dense bubbly ﬂows. Pattern Recognit. Lett. 2018, 101, 88–95. [CrossRef]
33.
Chen, M.; Tang, Y.; Zou, X.; Huang, K.; Huang, Z.; Zhou, H.; Lian, G. Three-dimensional perception of orchard banana central
stock enhanced by adaptive multi-vision technology. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2020, 174, 105508. [CrossRef]
34.
Canny, J. A computational approach to edge detection. IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell. 1986, 8, 679–698. [CrossRef]
35.
Loy, G.; Zelinsky, A. A fast radial symmetry transform for detecting points of interest. In Proceedings of the 2002 European
Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV), Copenhagen, Denmark, 28–31 May 2002; pp. 358–368.
36.
Loy, G.; Zelinsky, A. Fast radial symmetry for detecting points of interest. IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell. 2003, 25, 959–973.
[CrossRef]
37.
He, X.C.; Yung, N.H. Curvature scale space corner detector with adaptive threshold and dynamic region of support. In
Proceedings of the 17th International Conference on Pattern Recognition (ICPR), Cambridge, UK, 23–26 August 2004; Volume 2,
pp. 791–794.
38.
Fischler, M.A.; Bolles, R.C. Random sample consensus: A paradigm for model ﬁtting with applications to image analysis and
automated cartography. Commun. ACM 1981, 24, 381–395. [CrossRef]
39.
Horvat, M.; Jovi´c, A.; Burnik, K. Assessing the Robustness of Cluster Solutions in Emotionally-Annotated Pictures Using
Monte-Carlo Simulation Stabilized K-Means Algorithm. Mach. Learn. Knowl. Extr. 2021, 3, 435–452. [CrossRef]
