Fruit Mapping with Shape Completion for
Autonomous Crop Monitoring
Salih Marangoz
Tobias Zaenker
Rohit Menon
Maren Bennewitz
Abstract— Autonomous crop monitoring is a difﬁcult task
due to the complex structure of plants. Occlusions from leaves
can make it impossible to obtain complete views about all
fruits of, e.g., pepper plants. Therefore, accurately estimating
the shape and volume of fruits from partial information is
crucial to enable further advanced automation tasks such as
yield estimation and automated fruit picking. In this paper,
we present an approach for mapping fruits on plants and
estimating their shape by matching superellipsoids. Our system
segments fruits in images and uses their masks to generate
point clouds of the fruits. To combine sequences of acquired
point clouds, we utilize a real-time 3D mapping framework
and build up a fruit map based on truncated signed distance
ﬁelds. We cluster fruits from this map and use optimized
superellipsoids for matching to obtain accurate shape estimates.
In our experiments, we show in various simulated scenarios
with a robotic arm equipped with an RGB-D camera that our
approach can accurately estimate fruit volumes. Additionally,
we provide qualitative results of estimated fruit shapes from
data recorded in a commercial glasshouse environment.
I. INTRODUCTION
In the context of increasing demand for seasonal migrant
farm labour in member European Union states and its supply
side disruption due to the pandemic [1], autonomous crop
monitoring has gained further importance for plant pheno-
typing, yield monitoring, crop protection, and harvesting.
The availability of different sensors and systems has enabled
crop monitoring at different levels from global low resolution
satellite mapping [2] to drone-based crop-level mapping [3],
[4] to individualized plant level mapping using mobile
robots [5] and mobile manipulators [6], with an increase
in the level of detail and precision. While global crop
monitoring is necessary to make coarse yield predictions,
fruit mapping is key to accurate yield monitoring and to
performing automated precise interventions.
Fruit mapping consists of the localization of fruits and
estimation of their shape. With the advent of inexpensive
RGB-D cameras, fusing instance masks from panoptic seg-
mentation networks with depth information provides 3D in-
formation about the size and location of the fruits. However,
autonomous mapping of crops such as sweet peppers can be
a challenging task since the plants have complex structures,
with many leaves that may partially occlude fruits. Therefore,
obtaining accurate information about the location and shape
of fruits can be difﬁcult. Even if observations from multiple
views are acquired, fruits can often be only partially covered.
This work was funded by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG,
German Research Foundation) under Germany’s Excellence Strategy –
EXC 2070 – 390732324. All authors are with the Humanoid Robots Lab,
University of Bonn, Germany.
Fig. 1: Illustration of matched superellipsoids to fruits. Map gen-
erated from multiple views in a commercial glasshouse environ-
ment. Estimated superellipsoid surfaces are visualized as blue point
clouds. While the left fruit has been observed from almost all
directions, only half of the right fruit has been mapped. In both
cases, our system was able to accurately predict their shape.
To enable shape prediction in these cases, we present a
system to estimate the shape of both partially and fully
observed fruits. We build upon ideas of Lehnert et al.
[7] who proposed to match the shape of sweet peppers
with superellipsoids. Whereas their experiments were lim-
ited to controlled environments with single pepper plants,
we integrated our superellipsoid matching system with our
previously developed viewpoint planner [8]. As a result, we
are able to apply our fruit mapping system on data captured
with an RGB-D camera on a robotic arm in various scenarios
containing multiple plants with sweet peppers.
Fig. 1 shows an example application of our system using
data of sweet pepper crops in a glasshouse. As can be seen,
fruit masks are detected in the RGB image to subsequently
generate a fruit point cloud from depth data. From a sequence
of point clouds, we generate a fruit map in form of truncated
signed distance ﬁelds (TSDF) with the mapping framework
voxblox [9]. The surface cloud of this TSDF map is clustered
to separate fruits, and superellipsoids are ﬁtted by ﬁrst esti-
mating center and normals of the points and then minimizing
the distance of detected points to the superellipsoid surface.
Our main contributions are the following:
• A complete framework that accurately maps and esti-
mates fruit shapes using multiple views,
• An implementation in ROS, providing easy integration
with our previously developed ROI viewpoint planner,
• An evaluation of the accuracy of the estimated fruit
volumes in various simulated scenarios with multiple
crops,
• Qualitative results on data recorded in a commercial
glasshouse environment.
arXiv:2203.15489v1  [cs.RO]  29 Mar 2022

II. RELATED WORK
Several approaches exist that are based on reconstruction
using 3D data collected from different viewpoints to obtain
a full 3D model, however, with no explicit modeling of
shape. For example, Wang et al. [10] developed automatic
fruit shape measurement based on 3D reconstruction, using a
Kinect sensor and an electric turntable. Similarly, Jadhav et
al. [11] investigated the volumetric 3D reconstruction of
different fruits based on voxel mapping using silhouette
probabilities and inter-image homographies, with multiple
RGB cameras and a checkerboard. Complete reconstruction
approaches are generally suitable for ground truth dataset
generation or volumetric estimation in laboratory condi-
tions. However, the reconstruction methods are computation-
ally expensive and are generally not suitable for resource-
constrained, real-time agriculture automation tasks. More-
over, occlusions due to the plant leaves or unreachability of
the sensor to cover the complete view can lead to incomplete
scanning of the fruits.
Viewpoint planning uses the hitherto accumulated in-
formation to plan the next best view for maximising the
information gain. As an example, Roy and Isler [12] used
a viewpoint planning approach to count apples in orchards,
however, without any volumetric estimation. In our previous
work [8], we formulated a sampling approach based on
regions of interest (ROI), i.e., fruits that outperforms those
that do not consider ROIs, with respect to the number
of detected fruits and the estimated volume. However, the
previous approach suffered from inaccuracies in fruit volume
estimation as no shape estimation or modeling was carried
out for predicting the unobserved fruit regions.
State-of-the-art shape completion or fruit modeling ap-
proaches do not use a viewpoint planner for maximizing the
information gain, instead they typically attempt to predict
fruit shape and pose using data from a single view or few
views. Kang et al. [13] used the DasNet deep learning
network [14] for fruit recognition, and 3D Sphere Hough
Transform to estimate the fruit pose and size, for autonomous
apple harvesting. Similarly, Lin et al. [15] demonstrated that
sphere ﬁtting works better than a bounding box method for
pose estimation of guavas. However, while spherical ﬁtting
provides acceptable results for autonomous harvesting, the
reduction of different fruits to simple spheres is neither gen-
eralizable, nor reliable for localized yield predictions. Ge et
al. [16] formulated another approach based on shape from
symmetry [17], to generate and rate different hypotheses for
the symmetrical plane and the mirrored point sets, for the
partial view, to reconstruct the complete shape of strawberry
fruits for fruit localization. Furthermore, photogrammetry-
based methods have been used for estimating real length
and width after ﬁtting ellipses for apples and mangoes,
respectively, in the 2D plane [18], [19].
The most closely related work is the approach by Lehn-
ert et al. [7] that ﬁts superellipsoids to sweet peppers. Here,
point clouds from different viewpoints were merged into a
single point cloud using different registration methods of
which Kinect Fusion (KinFu) was found to perform best
at pose tracking. After registration and segmentation of red
sweet papers based on color using the HSV colour space,
sweet pepper pose estimation is performed using constrained
non-linear least squares optimization. A superellipsoid model
is then used for estimating parameters of the fruit shape and
for obtaining the 6 DoF transform between the registered
point cloud and the model.
KinFu can be used for realtime mapping of scenes while
concurrently obtaining the camera pose by tracking the depth
frames continuously as in [7]. However, as the viewpoint
planner used in our previous approach [8] plans discrete
viewpoints for maximising information gain, KinFu cannot
perform continuous tracking and registration which needs
small movements in successive frames for the convergence of
ICP alignment [20]. Oleynikova et al. [9] developed voxblox
to build TSDFs based map representations for local planning
of Micro Aerial Vehicles. Unlike KinFu, which requires
a known map size, large amounts of memory, and GPU
computational power, voxblox can dynamically grow maps
as it adds point cloud data from different viewpoints. As
voxblox can run on a single CPU core with low memory
requirements and still build TSDF maps faster than building
occupancy maps, we replaced the 3D occupancy maps in [21]
with TSDF maps.
In conclusion, most state-of-the-art approaches for fruit
mapping fall into three categories – naive complete recon-
struction methods, viewpoint planning without any shape
completion, and geometric shape completion methods. Our
approach combines a viewpoint planner with shape comple-
tion for mapping of fruits for estimation of count and volume,
in the wild, with an improved TSDF based mapping.
III. SYSTEM OVERVIEW
Our approach aims at estimating the shape of detected
fruits, which might be partially occluded. We use our pre-
viously developed viewpoint planner [8] to move a camera
placed on a robotic arm, which enables us to observe fruits
from different perspectives. In order to estimate the shape
of detected fruits, we build a map of the environment.
Previously, we generated an octree with marked regions of
interest (ROIs), i.e., fruits, to guide the planner and estimate
the fruit position and size. While this enabled ROI targeted
viewpoint planning and a rough estimation of fruit positions,
due to the limited accuracy of the octree map, the shape of
fruits could not be accurately determined.
For the new approach presented in this paper, we therefore
build a separate map of the environment speciﬁcally for the
fruits. We use the masks of detected fruits to generate a
separate fruit point cloud as input for the fruit mapping. This
point cloud is processed to remove outliers and forwarded to
the voxblox mapping system [9], which creates a TSDF map
of the fruits. Our superellipsoid matching system receives the
surface point cloud generated from that map, clusters it into
individual fruits, and optimizes the parameters of a superel-
lipsoid to ﬁnd the best ﬁtting shape for the corresponding
points. The parameters of the superellipsoid can be used to

Fruit
point cloud
Fruit Detection
Voxblox
Fruit location and
volume estimation
Rviz
Color image
Depth image
Fruit masks
Neural network/
color-based detector
Fruit Superellipsoids
TSDF Map
Superellipsoid
Matcher
Surface point cloud
Fig. 2: Overview of our system. Color and depth images are converted into a fruit point cloud from generated fruit masks, which is
processed by voxblox [9] into a truncated signed distance ﬁeld (TSDF) map. The surface point cloud from this map is used to ﬁt
superellipsoids to individual fruits, which can be visualized together with the map, or used to estimate position and volume.
compute the fruit position and volume. Addionally, a fruit
point cloud for visualization purposes is generated. Fig. 2
shows an overview of the approach described above.
IV. FRUIT MAPPING AND SHAPE ESTIMATION
A. Fruit Detection and Mapping
In order to match superellipsoid to fruits, they have to
be detected ﬁrst. Like in our previous work, we provide
two methods to detect fruits in images. The ﬁrst one is a
color thresholder for detecting red pixels, and is used in our
simulated experiments with only red peppers. For our real
world data, we utilize a neural network trained on a dataset
recorded at the University of Bonn [22] to detect the fruit
masks. In both cases, we end with a set of pixels belonging
to fruits. We match those with the point cloud generated
from the depth image of the RGB-D camera, and extract a
cloud only containing the fruit points. This cloud is used to
generate the map used for our shape completion, while the
complete cloud can be used to generate an additional map
containing full plants. Before that, outliers are removed using
statistical outlier removal to counter depth noise.
For generating the map used to match superellipsoids to
fruits, we utilize the mapping framework voxblox [9]. We
conﬁgure voxblox with a TSDF voxel size of 0.004 m and 64
voxels per side. We disable ICP tracking feature of voxblox
and utilize position feedbacks from the robot arm.
B. Clustering and Shape Estimation
From the fruit TSDF map generated with voxblox, we
extract the surface point cloud to match our fruit predictions.
In a ﬁrst processing step, we extract clusters to identify
individual fruits. We utilize Euclidean cluster extraction with
a cluster tolerance of 0.01 m, a minimum cluster size of
100 points and a maximum cluster size of 10000 points
for that. For each extracted cluster, we ﬁrst estimate the
normals of the points. Taking into account the normals, a
cluster center w is estimated using a closed form least-
squares solution for minimizing the sum of perpendicular
distances from the estimated point to all the lines [23]. We
also use L2 regularization to bias the solution towards a
reference point (i.e., the mean of all points in a cluster) with
the regularization value of λ = 2.5 [23]. This center is used
as start point for the optimization of the superellipsoid.
As in [7], we represent superellipsoids with the following
equation:
f(x, y, z) =
x
a
 2
ε2 +
y
b
 2
ε2
 ε2
ε1
+
z
c
 2
ε1 = 1
(1)
The parameters a, b, c, ε1, and ε2, together with the
translation tx, ty, tz and rotation φ, θ, ψ make up 11
parameters to optimize. We set the initial value of tx, ty,
tz to the estimated center and the rotation to 0. For the
superellipsoid parameters, we start with initial values of
a = b = c = 0.05 m and ε1 = ε2 = 0.5.
Compared to [7], we changed the cost function to achieve
better ﬁts. Jakliˇc et al. [24] describe approximated distance
of a point to a superellipsoid as:
d = |r0 −βr0| = |r0| · |1 −f −ε1
2 (x0, y0, z0)|
(2)
where r0 = (x0, y0, z0) represents the coordinates of
a point with respect to the superellipsoid center. β is the
scaling factor to project r0 to the superellipsoid surface, and
computed by solving f(βx0, βy0, βz0) for β. To ﬁnd the best
ﬁtting shape, we minimize the sum of d over all points. We
get the following optimization task, with priors encouraging
the superellipsoid center to be closer to the estimated center
and the a, b, and c parameters to be close to each other:
min
a,...,ψ
X
i

d2
i +α||t−w||2
2+γ
 (a−b)2+(b−c)2+(c−a)2
(3)
We apply the Levenberg–Marquardt algorithm to optimize
the parameters. The numerical computations are performed
using the open source Ceres solver [25].
We limit a, b, and c between 0.02 and 0.15 m, and ε1 and
ε2 between 0.3 and 0.9, to avoid unrealistically small, large
or deformed superellipsoids that don’t realistically represent
a fruit. We set regularization constants α = γ = 0.1. We also
limit the maximum number of iterations to 100 and discard
optimizations that terminated without convergence.
C. Shape Evaluation
Our node provides the results of the matched superel-
lipsoids in multiple forms. For visualization, surface point

clouds are generated from the optimized parameters. We
provide a colored point cloud with different colors for each
cluster, as well a labeled point cloud including the computed
normals. For further usage, the superellipsoid parameters and
volume are published. We compute the volume using the
following formula, as described in [24]:
V = 2abcε1ε2B
ε1
2 + 1, ε1

B
ε2
2 , ε2
2

;
(4)
where B is the beta function:
B(x, y) = 2
Z
π
2
0
sin2x−1 φcos2y−1φdφ = Γ(x)Γ(y)
Γ(x + y)
(5)
For our simulated environments, we extract a point cloud
from the mesh models of the fruits and optimize superellip-
soid parameters to ﬁt this point cloud for each fruit. We read
the position and orientation of the plants directly from the
Gazebo simulator and can therefore generate a ground truth
superellipsoid for each fruit in the scene.
We can match ground truth and detected ellipsoids by
comparing the distance of the centers and the volumes.
V. EXPERIMENTS
We carried out experiments with of our shape estimation
method in a simulated environment for quantitative analysis
and with data collected from the glasshouse to validate our
approach in real world conditions.
For our evaluation in simulated scenarios, we used the
Gazebo based simulation setup presented in [8], but with an
additional new environment with more and different plants. It
simulates a UR5e arm from Universal Robots with an RGB-
D camera placed at its ﬂange. We conﬁgured the planner to
move the arm to new views autonomously.
We placed the arm on a static pole for the ﬁrst scenario,
and for the other two, it was attached to a retractable pole
hanging from the ceiling, to enable good coverage of the
fruits. The three scenarios are described with pictures in
Figures 3a to 3c.
A. Simulated Scenarios
To evaluate the accuracy of the fruit shape estimation with
our new method to our old approach, we compare the average
estimated fruit center distance and volume accuracy of the
detected fruits. Additionally, we set a new restriction on the
detected fruits – they are counted only when the speciﬁed
minimum accuracy criterion is met. For the evaluation, we
consider the number of fruits with minimum accuracy 0
(i.e. the detected volume must not be more than twice
the ground truth volume) and minimum accuracy 0.5 (the
detected volume must not be more than 50% larger or smaller
than the ground truth.)
This gives us the following metrics:
• Detected fruits: Number of found fruits that can be
matched with ground truth fruits, which means that their
center distance is less than 20 cm, and their volume
accuracy is greater than the speciﬁed minimum.
• Center distance: Average distance of the fruit centers
from the ground truth centers.
• Volume accuracy: Average accuracy of the cluster vol-
umes. The accuracy is computed as follows:
accV = 1 −|Vdet −Vgt|
Vgt
(6)
where Vdet is the detected volume and Vgt, the ground
truth volume. For detected volumes less than the ground
truth volume, the accV varies from 0 to 1, with 1
representing the best possible accuracy when they are
equal. On the other hand, for Vdet greater than 2Vgt, the
accV turns negative. For our old method, the volumes
are computed as bounding box volumes of the detected
clusters. For the new method, we use the superellipsoid
volume as described in Section IV-C.
For each scenario, we executed 20 trials, each with a
planning time of three minutes.
Figures 3d to 3f illustrate the number of detected fruits
over the three minutes planning time, and Figures 3g to 3i
show the quantitative results for the three scenarios.
While the number of detected fruits with no volume
accuracy bounds is similar to our old approach, our current
approach with the superellipsoid matcher recognizes signif-
cantly greater number of fruits, when the minimum volume
accuracy bound is applied. With a minimum accuracy of 0.5,
we detect an average of 7.7 fruits with our new aapproach
compared to 4.7 with the old approach in Scenario 1, 17.7
compared to 6.0 in Scenario 2, and 27.2 compared to 12.4
in Scenario 3.
It can also be seen that with our old approach, the number
of detected fruits with minimum accuracy drops towards the
end. This can happen if nearby fruits are combined to a
single fruit, which greatly decreases the volume accuracy.
Since our new method uses a more accurate map and better
clustering, this happens less often, leading to a considerable
improvement in count and volume estimation.
The average center distances are similar for both ap-
proaches. However, the average volume accuracy of our
superellipsoid matcher is much higher. When counting all
detected fruits, with average accuracies between 0.22 and
0.35, it is still quite low. This is because the clustering still
can fail if there are not enough fruit points detected and
nearby fruits are merged, leading to overestimated shapes
with negative accuracies, which bring down the average.
When removing those outliers, which was done via prior
assumptions about the maximum fruit size, the average
accuracy increases appreciably, with accuracies between 0.67
and 0.70 compared to only between 0.35 and 0.45 with our
old approach. This accuracy covers on average over 70% of
the detected fruits in Scenario 1 and over 80% in Scenario
2 and 3.
The evaluation demonstrates that our approach with su-
perellipsoid based shape completion can lead to a higher
number of accurately detected fruits. While there are still
some outliers, the volume accuracy for most of the sweet
peppers shows that they can be satisfactorily approximated

(a) Scenario 1
(b) Scenario 2
(c) Scenario 3
(d) Fruits Scenario 1
(e) Fruits Scenario 2
(f) Fruits Scenario 3
Fruits
Center
Vol.
Old
(all)
12.8
± 0.9
2.5
± 0.5
-0.12
± 0.79
SE
(all)
13.2
± 0.9
2.9
± 0.7
0.26
± 0.27
Old
(MA0)
8.7
± 2.6
2.6
± 1.1
0.45
± 0.12
SE
(MA0)
9.8
± 1.9
2.3
± 0.8
0.69
± 0.06
Old
(MA50)
4.7
± 2.2
1.6
± 0.8
0.65
± 0.17
SE
(MA50)
7.7
± 1.9
1.9
± 0.9
0.81
± 0.04
(g) Results Scenario 1
Fruits
Center
Vol.
Old
(all)
25.5
± 1.0
2.2
± 0.3
-0.05
± 0.21
SE
(all)
26.5
± 1.2
1.8
± 0.6
0.35
± 0.23
Old
(MA0)
16.4
± 3.4
2.1
± 0.5
0.35
± 0.06
SE
(MA0)
22.4
± 2.4
1.4
± 0.6
0.67
± 0.04
Old
(MA50)
6.0
± 2.0
1.8
± 0.4
0.66
± 0.07
SE
(MA50)
17.7
± 2.1
1.2
± 0.4
0.78
± 0.03
(h) Results Scenario 2
Fruits
Center
Vol.
Old
(all)
41.1
± 3.3
2.4
± 0.4
-0.19
± 0.27
SE
(all)
40.9
± 3.9
1.9
± 0.4
0.22
± 0.22
Old
(MA0)
28.0
± 4.7
2.5
± 0.5
0.44
± 0.06
SE
(MA0)
33.6
± 3.9
1.3
± 0.3
0.70
± 0.04
Old
(MA50)
12.4
± 3.6
2.1
± 0.6
0.71
± 0.04
SE
(MA50)
27.2
± 3.9
1.2
± 0.3
0.80
± 0.02
(i) Results Scenario 3
Fig. 3: (a-c): Our three simulated scenarios. Scenario 1: Simulated environment with static arm, as used in [8], with 4 plants and 14 fruits.
Scenario 2: Simulated environment with retractable arm, as in [8], with 4 plants and 28 fruits. Scenario 3: New simulated environment.
It also uses the retractable arm, but contains a total of 12 plants, ordered in two rows, with different growth stages and fruits. There are
a total of 47 red fruits in this environment.
(d-f): Results for the three simulated scenarios. For each tested approach, 20 trials with a duration of three minutes each were performed.
The plots show the average number of detected fruits of our superellipsoid matcher (SE) compared to our old octree-based approach
(Old), with no minimum accuracy (all), a minimum accuracy of 0 (MA0), and a minimum accuracy of 0.5 (MA50). As can be seen,
while the number of detected fruits with no accuracy bounds is similar, our new approach detects much more fruits with good accuracy.
(g-i): The average numerical results at the end of the episodes regarding number of detected fruits (Fruits), center distance in cm (Center),
and volume accuracy (Vol.).

Fig. 4: Generated map with superellipsoids. Blue point clouds
represent the estimated surface of the matched shapes.
(a) Captured photos
(b) ROI octree
Fig. 5: Left: Captured RGB images of the glasshouse in the segment
mapped in Figure 4 . Right: The octree-based map generated in [8],
with red bounding boxes visualizing the matched fruit volume. The
two fruits are the same as the two red fruits on the right in Figure 4
through superellipsoids, even if only partially observed by
our viewpoint planner.
B. Real-World Glasshouse Experiment
To evaluate how our approach handles real-word data,
we utilized a recording of the data feed gathered from
our previously developed viewpoint planner in a capsicum
glasshouse. Color and depth images were generated using a
RealSense L515 Lidar sensor, and the data includes the arm
conﬁguration and the camera poses.
The recorded images are passed through a neural net-
work [22] to generate fruit masks which are fused with
the depth images to generate the fruit point clouds used
for voxblox mapping. In addition to the fruit map used to
estimate shapes with superellipsoids, we generate a map from
the full point cloud for visualization purposes.
In Figure 4, you can see the generated full TSDF map of
a section of the glasshouse, with the superellipsoids matched
from the fruit-only map visualized as blue point clouds. For
comparison, Figure 5 shows the results of the same segment
using the octree-based map presented in [8]. It can be seen
that our new method provides both a more accurate map and
a better approximation of the fruit shapes.
VI. CONCLUSIONS
To move a step closer to autonomous crop monitoring and
yield estimation, we developed a framework to accurately
estimate the shape of fruits such as sweet peppers. Our
system is embedded into a viewpoint planning approach and
builds up a map of the fruits in form of truncated signed
distance ﬁelds, on which fruits are clustered. Subsequently,
the shape of clustered fruits is approximated by ﬁtting
superellipsoids to the surface points. As the evaluation with
a simulated robotic arm equipped with an RGB-D camera
demonstrates, our system can detect a majority of the fruits
with good accuracy, and the qualitative results on real-world
data show that it is applicable under realistic conditions in
commercial glasshouse environments.
In the future, we plan to use the estimated shapes to
determine the missing parts of partially detected fruits to
guide our viewpoint planner to achieve better coverage.
REFERENCES
[1] M.-L.
Aug`ere-Granier,
“Migrant
seasonal
workers
in
the
european
agricultural
sector,”
Brieﬁng.
EU:
European
Parliamentary
Research
Service.
https://www.
europarl.
europa.
eu/RegData/etudes/BRIE/2021/689347/EPRS BRI
(2021)
689347
EN. pdf, 2021.
[2] F. Rembold, C. Atzberger, I. Savin, and O. Rojas, “Using low
resolution satellite imagery for yield prediction and yield anomaly
detection,” Remote Sensing, vol. 5, no. 4, pp. 1704–1733, 2013.
[3] M. Maimaitijiang, V. Sagan, P. Sidike, A. M. Daloye, H. Erkbol, and
F. B. Fritschi, “Crop monitoring using satellite/uav data fusion and
machine learning,” Remote Sensing, vol. 12, no. 9, p. 1357, 2020.
[4] N. Stefas, H. Bayram, and V. Isler, “Vision-based monitoring of
orchards with uavs,” Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, vol.
163, p. 104814, 2019.
[5] J. Qiao, A. Sasao, S. Shibusawa, N. Kondo, and E. Morimoto,
“Mapping yield and quality using the mobile fruit grading robot,”
Biosystems Engineering, vol. 90, no. 2, pp. 135–142, 2005.
[6] A. Shaﬁekhani, S. Kadam, F. B. Fritschi, and G. N. DeSouza,
“Vinobot and vinoculer: two robotic platforms for high-throughput
ﬁeld phenotyping,” Sensors, vol. 17, no. 1, p. 214, 2017.
[7] C. Lehnert, I. Sa, C. McCool, B. Upcroft, and T. Perez, “Sweet pepper
pose detection and grasping for automated crop harvesting,” in Proc. of
the IEEE Intl. Conf. on Robotics & Automation (ICRA).
IEEE, 2016,
pp. 2428–2434.
[8] T. Zaenker, C. Smitt, C. McCool, and M. Bennewitz, “Viewpoint
planning for fruit size and position estimation,” in Proc. of the
IEEE/RSJ Intl. Conf. on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), 2021.
[9] H. Oleynikova, Z. Taylor, M. Fehr, R. Siegwart, and J. Nieto,
“Voxblox: Incremental 3d euclidean signed distance ﬁelds for on-board
mav planning,” in Proc. of the IEEE/RSJ Intl. Conf. on Intelligent
Robots and Systems (IROS), 2017.
[10] Y. Wang and Y. Chen, “Fruit morphological measurement based on
three-dimensional reconstruction,” Agronomy, vol. 10, no. 4, p. 455,
2020.
[11] T. Jadhav, K. Singh, and A. Abhyankar, “Volumetric estimation using
3d reconstruction method for grading of fruits,” Multimedia Tools and
Applications, vol. 78, no. 2, pp. 1613–1634, 2019.
[12] P. Roy and V. Isler, “Active view planning for counting apples in
orchards,” in 2017 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent
Robots and Systems (IROS).
IEEE, 2017, pp. 6027–6032.
[13] H. Kang, H. Zhou, and C. Chen, “Visual perception and modeling
for autonomous apple harvesting,” IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 62 151–
62 163, 2020.
[14] H. Kang and C. Chen, “Fruit detection, segmentation and 3d visuali-
sation of environments in apple orchards,” Computers and Electronics
in Agriculture, vol. 171, p. 105302, 2020.

[15] G. Lin, Y. Tang, X. Zou, J. Xiong, and J. Li, “Guava detection and
pose estimation using a low-cost rgb-d sensor in the ﬁeld,” Sensors,
vol. 19, no. 2, p. 428, 2019.
[16] Y. Ge, Y. Xiong, and P. J. From, “Symmetry-based 3d shape comple-
tion for fruit localisation for harvesting robots,” biosystems engineer-
ing, vol. 197, pp. 188–202, 2020.
[17] S. Thrun and B. Wegbreit, “Shape from symmetry,” in Tenth IEEE
International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV’05) Volume 1,
vol. 2.
IEEE, 2005, pp. 1824–1831.
[18] A. Gongal, M. Karkee, and S. Amatya, “Apple fruit size estimation
using a 3d machine vision system,” Information Processing in Agri-
culture, vol. 5, no. 4, pp. 498–503, 2018.
[19] Z. Wang, K. B. Walsh, and B. Verma, “On-tree mango fruit size
estimation using rgb-d images,” Sensors, vol. 17, no. 12, p. 2738,
2017.
[20] M. Pirovano, “Kinfu–an open source implementation of kinect fusion+
case study: implementing a 3d scanner with pcl,” UniMi, Tech. Rep.,
2012.
[21] T. Zaenker, C. Lehnert, C. McCool, and M. Bennewitz, “Combining
local and global viewpoint planning for fruit coverage,” in Proc. of
the Europ. Conf. on Mobile Robotics (ECMR), 2021.
[22] M. Halstead, S. Denman, F. Clinton, and C. McCool, “Fruit detection
in the wild: The impact of varying conditions and cultivar,” in Digital
Image Computing: Techniques and Applications (DICTA), 2020.
[23] J. Traa, “Least-squares intersection of lines,” University of Illinois
Urbana-Champaign (UIUC), 2013.
[24] A.
Jakliˇc,
A.
Leonardis,
and
F.
Solina,
Superquadrics
and
Their
Geometric
Properties.
Dordrecht:
Springer
Netherlands,
2000,
pp.
13–39.
[Online].
Available:
https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-94-015-9456-1 2
[25] S. Agarwal, K. Mierle, and Others, “Ceres solver,” http://ceres-solver.
org.
