 
 
J. Imaging 2019, 5, 89; doi:10.3390/jimaging5120089 
www.mdpi.com/journal/jimaging 
Review 
Machine vision Systems in Precision Agriculture for 
Crop Farming 
Efthimia Mavridou, Eleni Vrochidou, George A. Papakostas *, Theodore Pachidis and Vassilis G. 
Kaburlasos 
Human-Machines Interaction Laboratory (HUMAIN-Lab), Department of Computer Science, International 
Hellenic University (IHU), Kavala, Greece; emavridou@teiemt.gr (E.M.); evrochid@teiemt.gr (E.V.); 
pated@teiemt.gr (T.P.); vgkabs@teiemt.gr (V.G.K.) 
* Correspondence: gpapak@teiemt.gr; Tel.: +30-2510-462321 
Received: 15 October 2019; Accepted: 6 December 2019; Published: 7 December 2019 
Abstract: Machine vision for precision agriculture has attracted considerable research interest in 
recent years. The aim of this paper is to review the most recent work in the application of machine 
vision to agriculture, mainly for crop farming. This study can serve as a research guide for the 
researcher and practitioner alike in applying cognitive technology to agriculture. Studies of different 
agricultural activities that support crop harvesting are reviewed, such as fruit grading, fruit 
counting, and yield estimation. Moreover, plant health monitoring approaches are addressed, 
including weed, insect, and disease detection. Finally, recent research efforts considering vehicle 
guidance systems and agricultural harvesting robots are also reviewed.  
Keywords: machine vision; precision agriculture; agrobots; intelligent systems; industry 4.0 
 
1. Introduction 
Precision agriculture is a farming management concept based on monitoring, measuring, and 
responding to variability in crops. The research on precision agriculture aims to define a decision 
support system for farm management by optimizing the returns on input while preserving resources. 
Machine vision has been widely used to support precision agriculture by providing automated 
solutions to tasks that are traditionally performed manually. Manual methods tend to be tedious and 
error prone. Machine vision can provide accurate and efficient solutions to support agricultural 
activities. Moreover, machine learning algorithms enable the analysis of massive volumes of data 
quickly and accurately, providing a means for the implementation of machine vision applications in 
agriculture. 
Due to the recent advancements in machine vision applications in agriculture, there are several 
reviews that have been performed focusing on this subject [1–11]. The state-of-the-art published in 
the last decade pertaining to computer vision for the automatic detection and classification of fruits 
is reviewed in [1]. A review of 40 research efforts that employed deep learning techniques for 
agricultural tasks is implemented in [2]. A survey on diseases detection in citrus plant leaves and 
their classification is presented in [3], while a review on the application of computer vision in the 
production of grains (maize, rice, wheat, soybean, and barley) is conducted in [4]. In [5], a general 
overview with a detailed description and technical support is provided regarding spectral bands, 
imaging sensors, optical systems, and geometric visual system arrangement with respect to specific 
applications in agriculture. A review is conducted in [6] to map the research progress in vehicle 
automation in North America over the last 15 years. The key elements of the latter review include 
navigation sensors, navigation planners, vehicle motion models, and steering controllers. The review 
presented in [7] investigates the research effort, developments, and innovation in agricultural robots 
for field operations, and the associated concepts, limitations, and gaps. The review conducted in [8] 

J. Imaging 2019, 5, 89 
2 of 33 
 
focus on recent innovations in autonomous navigation systems in agricultural environments. The 
research in [9] provides a short overview of the worldwide development and current status of 
precision agriculture technologies of the past years. Relevant research in autonomous agricultural 
vehicles in Japan is also presented in [10]. In [11], machine vision techniques applied to agriculture 
are reviewed. This review deals with machine vision technologies for image acquisition and their 
processing and analysis in agricultural automation, focusing on two types of images, namely visible 
and infrared. 
The work presented in this paper aims to include the machine vision techniques in agriculture-
related tasks focusing on crop farming. The purpose of this work is to serve as a guide for the 
researcher and practitioner in the agricultural field providing the latest advancements on machine 
vision applications in agriculture. To this end, the review conducted in this paper not only focuses 
on a specific agricultural challenge (e.g., disease detection) or fruit type or plant (e.g., citrus), but 
rather outlines research conducted in different agricultural activities covering more technical 
subjects, such as vision-based vehicle guidance systems and autonomous mobile agricultural robots. 
In particular, the following main issues are to be addressed: 
• 
Plant and fruit detection approaches 
• 
Harvesting support approaches, including fruit grading, ripeness detection, fruit 
counting, and yield prediction 
• 
Plant and fruit health protection and disease detection approaches, including weed, 
insect, disease, and deficiency detection 
• 
Camera types used for machine vision in agriculture 
• 
Vision-based vehicle guidance systems (navigation) for agricultural applications 
• 
Vision-based autonomous mobile agricultural robots 
In order to consider any automated precision agriculture engineering design, it would be useful 
for researchers to be able to find all recent effective machine vision techniques implemented for the 
broader categories of agricultural tasks, from the out-field development of simple segmentation 
algorithms, through the in-field integration of sophisticated algorithms, to automated vehicles. Thus, 
regarding the above considerations, this work addresses the above-mentioned six main issues that 
need to be considered before the appropriate machine vision system is selected to be installed 
onboard an agricultural robot for specific tasks in fields. The proposed review on machine vision 
techniques contributes towards the design of a (semi-)autonomous robot harvester in precision 
farming applications as part of a national project entitled “Personalized Optimal Grape Harvest by 
Autonomous Robot” that is being acknowledged. 
This work is compiled according to the defined process for conducting reviews based on 
Kitchenham [12]. Articles reviewed were limited to those published in English. The used search terms 
were “machine vision in agriculture” and “agricultural robots” which were keyed in GoogleScholar 
engine, with a recent publication date after 2017. This search initially resulted to 229 papers, from 
which some of them were discarded due to several reasons e.g. absence of a clear methodology, not 
enough reference list, publishing houses of low reputation etc. The selected studies should report on 
the use of machine vision in agriculture for corps farming and the machine vision-based robots in 
agriculture in the defined time-range. This is the Benitti [13] approach. However, this work focuses 
on the results of the review, rather than on the approach to conducting the review.  
Plant and fruit detection approaches are presented in Section 2, which is a critical task for 
performing agricultural activities automatically, such as harvesting, yield estimation, and disease 
detection. Machine vision approaches for supporting harvesting are reviewed in Section 3, including 
fruit grading, ripeness detection, fruit counting, and yield estimation. In Section 4, plant and fruit 
health protection and disease detection approaches are discussed. Specifically, machine vision 
approaches for weed detection, insect detection, disease and deficiency detection are presented. In 
Section 5, the different camera types that can be used are presented, aiming to help researchers and 
practitioners alike in deciding on the equipment to use in each task. Vision-based vehicle guidance 
systems (navigation) for agricultural applications are reviewed in Section 6. In Section 7, vision-based 

J. Imaging 2019, 5, 89 
3 of 33 
 
autonomous mobile agricultural robots are discussed. Lastly, the main findings of this analysis are 
discussed in Section 8, and conclusions are summarized in Section 9.  
2. Plant and Fruit Detection Approaches 
The role of image segmentation in agriculture is the separation of the plant from the background 
and/or the fruit from the rest of the plant and the background. This task is a key requirement for 
performing agricultural activities automatically like harvesting, yield estimation and disease 
detection. Image processing technologies can conduct object detection accurately, quickly and non-
invasively, i.e., non-destructively for the plants and fruits. Image processing for plant and fruit 
detection can be challenging for several reasons. First, different lighting conditions can cause the color 
degradation of the target’s appearance. Thus, segmentation based on color information can be 
seriously affected by illumination. The segmentation problem becomes even harder when the target 
has a similar color to the background. For example, when the target is a green fruit, like an apple or 
grape, it is difficult to separate the fruit from the background containing leaves and branches which 
also have a green color. In those cases, segmentation based on color does not provide good results. 
To this end, methods that deploy different types of features, such as texture [14] and shape, and 
examine a group of pixels and their relations to each other have been proposed. However, many 
approaches require the usage of thresholds for the features’ (e.g., color, shape or size) values that 
need to be defined for any different image, leading to threshold-dependent performances. It is 
obvious that the overall accuracy of fruit and plant detection is highly dependent on image 
segmentation performance. Therefore, a robust segmentation algorithm is needed, displaying high 
accuracy regardless of the fruit color or the surrounding environment. Thus, due to the varying 
challenges, a literature review of recent research efforts in plant and fruit detection is considered to 
be of great importance. In what follows, relevant recent methodologies of the bibliography are 
presented.  
A grape identification method based on an artificial neural network (ANN) and a genetic 
algorithm (GA) using color features is presented in [15]. A GA is employed to optimize the ANN 
structure and select superior color features simultaneously. Although this method performs well for 
a specific task, i.e., for mature grapes, it does not have the same performance when the color of the 
fruit is similar to the rest of the plant. This is the main disadvantage of segmentation algorithms that 
use color features. In order to perform well, a higher contrast is needed between the target and 
background. An approach that considers the aforementioned disadvantage is presented in [16]. The 
proposed algorithm can detect green apples in natural scenes where the background has a similar 
color to the targets. Firstly, the image is represented as a close-loop graph with superpixels as nodes. 
Then, these nodes are ranked based on their similarity to the background and foreground queries in 
order to generate the final saliency map. Finally, Gaussian curve fitting is carried out to fit the V-
component in YUV color space in salient areas, and a threshold is selected to binarize the image. This 
method displays poor performance in segmenting the edges with shadows and intense facula around 
the object. Moreover, the performance of the method is threshold-dependent, yet easily affected by 
varying lighting conditions. 
An alternative method developed to perform under realistic and uncontrolled conditions is 
proposed in [17]. The method is tested to detect apple flowers. The generalization capability of the 
proposed approach on additional datasets is also examined. The method consists of three stages: (i) 
computation of region proposals, (ii) feature extraction using a fine-tuned Convolutional Neural 
Network (CNN) based on Clarifai architecture, and (iii) the application of Principal Component 
Analysis (PCA) to reduce the feature dimensionality and classification of each region according to 
the presence of flowers with a Support Vector Machine (SVM) classifier. Among the research findings 
of this work is that color analysis alone leads to limited applicability in scenarios involving changes 
in illumination. The technique presented in [18] is based on both color and texture features in order 
to detect cucumbers in a greenhouse. SVM is used for the identification task. Deep learning 
techniques currently represent the state-of-the-art for computer application systems. However, a 
large amount of both data and computational power are required to meet the expectations of better 

J. Imaging 2019, 5, 89 
4 of 33 
 
performances. Moreover, uneven illumination on the cucumber surface and the irregular growth of 
fruit obstructed the segmentation task. To detect fruits/plants of different sizes, multiscale algorithms 
for multiple fruit/plant sizes need to be developed. An image segmentation approach based on color, 
texture and shape is presented in [19]. This approach applies Otsu thresholding on hue, saturation, 
intensity (HSV), and luminance, chromaticity blue, chromaticity red (YCbCr) color space for mango 
leaves. Segmentation results are promising, yet they are also threshold-dependent and unstable 
under varying illumination.   
The aforementioned drawbacks, i.e., different plant/fruit sizes and varying illuminance, are 
addressed in [20]. The intensity of sunlight changes from morning to night, inducing change in color 
features. Therefore, the segmentation system needs to be trained for all the conditions so as to be 
applicable for real-time use during all day. In [20], a new color space in field conditions for 
segmenting green plants from their background is suggested. The algorithm can perform well under 
different light intensities and with different crop growth stages. The suggested machine vision 
system is comprised of two steps: the first step consists of identifying the color conditions and the 
second step includes segmentation using a hybrid artificial neural network-harmony search (ANN-
HS) classifier. A computer vision system for the classification of wheat grains to their species using a 
multilayer perceptron (MLP) ANN is proposed in [21]. Images are converted to grayscale, binarized 
using the Otsu method and segmented using the thresholding operation. The properties of size, color, 
and texture are captured for each grain, and are given as input to the classification model. The main 
disadvantage of the method is that grain images are captured in artificial lighting (strip LED lighting) 
and not refer to real environmental lighting conditions. 
A flower and a seedpod detection method in a crowd of soybean plants under completely 
outdoor environments is presented in [22]. The detection of flower regions is performed using image 
segmentation by SLIC (simple linear iterative clustering) [23], which conducts pixel clustering based 
on the hue similarity and the distances between two pixels. A CNN is introduced to make the final 
decision for flower detection. For flower counting, features from an accelerated segment test (FAST) 
are used for all the detected flower regions [24] to find saliency features (i.e., key points) from the 
surrounding regions of the detected flowers. Then, Oriented FAST and Rotated BRIEF (ORB) features 
[25] are calculated for all the key points and find the matched points in the two consecutive pictures 
in order to avoid counting the same flower twice, due to overlapped regions. For detecting soybean 
seedpods, the Viola-Jones object detection method [26] is adopted. Contrast limited adaptive 
histogram equalization (CLAHE) [27] is performed to enhance the robustness against various lighting 
conditions. Finally, CNN [28] is used to predict which of the candidate regions are seedpod parts. 
Although the method returns good performances, open issues still remain. Such issues include the 
flowers of other plants located behind a target plant sometimes being detected together, and stems 
and leaves sometimes wrongly being detected as seedpods, and there are several cases whereby 
seedpods are wrongly detected  
An image segmentation method for rice panicles in the field is implemented in [29]. First, Simple 
Linear Iterative Clustering (SLIC) [23] is used to generate candidate regions. Then, a CNN [30] is 
applied as a candidate region classifier. Finally, the entropy rate superpixel (ERS) [31] algorithm is 
developed for optimizing the segmentation result. Compared with other segmentation approaches, 
namely HSeg (hue plane threshold segmentation)[32], i2 hysteresis thresholding [33], and jointSeg 
[34], the proposed Panicle SEGmentation (Panicle-SEG) algorithm shows higher segmentation 
accuracy. Parallel computing and deep learning with graphical processing unit (GPU) acceleration is 
adopted. The algorithm runs comparatively faster, however is still not suitable for real-time 
applications. A cotton leaf segmentation method based on an immune algorithm (IA) and pulse 
coupled neural networks (PCNN) is presented in [35]. Three anti-light color components are selected 
by histogram statistical with mean gray value. Then, the optimal parameters of PCNN model and the 
optimal number of iterations are determined by using IA optimization so that PCNN model can 
segment the objects in cotton regions more effectively. Four image segmentation methods, namely 
the Otsu algorithm, K-Means algorithm, FCM algorithm, and PCNN, are compared with the 
proposed method to show that it has good resistance to light changes and complex backgrounds. 

J. Imaging 2019, 5, 89 
5 of 33 
 
However, the disadvantage of this method is the dependence on the iteration step, and its real-time 
performance is relatively poor. Meanwhile, weeds with a similar color to cotton may also be detected 
as the target region. An image segmentation method of overlapping leaves based on the Chan-Vese 
(C-V) model and a Sobel operator is implemented in [36]. First, the background is removed using a 
threshold with respect to the relative levels of green in the image. The contour of the target leaf is 
extracted using the C-V model. Then, eight directional Sobel operators are applied to detect the edges 
of the leaf. Finally, the overlapping target leaf is extracted by combining the results obtained by the 
C-V model and the Sobel operator. The method needs to be extended to different types of crop, and 
improved in terms of robustness against environmental conditions.   
Table 1 summarizes the main characteristics of recent methods of the literature for plant and 
fruit detection. In the Discussion section, additional information on the literature is provided 
regarding research gaps, pros and cons, and potential future directions. 
Table 1. Plant/fruit detection approaches. 
Ref. 
Fruit/Plant 
Type 
Task 
Feature  
Type 
Method 
Performance 
Indices 
[16] 
Green apples 
Detection of green 
apples in natural 
scenes 
Color (V-
component of the 
YUV color space)  
  
Saliency 
map and 
Gaussian 
curve 
fitting  
Accuracy = 
91.84%  
[17]  
Apples 
Apple flower 
detection  
Color and spatial 
proximity  
SLIC + 
CNN  
SVM + PCA 
AUC-PR and 
F-measure  
93.40% on 
Apple A 
dataset 
F-measure 
80.20%  
on AppleB 
F-measure  
82.20% on 
AppleC  
F-measure 
79.90% on 
Peach  
[15] 
Grapes 
Grape identification 
Color (HSV and 
L* a* b* color 
spaces) 
ANN+GA  
Accuracy = 
99.40% 
[19] 
Mango 
Mango leaf image 
segmentation  
Color (HSV and 
YCbCr 
color spaces) 
Otsu 
Precision = 
99.50% 
 Recall = 
97.10%  
F-measure = 
98.30%  
[20]  
Plants of 6 
different types 
e.g Potato, 
Mallow. 
Segmentation of 
different plants in 
different growth 
stages, different 
conditions of the day 
and one controlled 
state and different 
imaging situations 
Color  
(Five features 
among 126 
extracting 
features of five 
colour spaces 
RGB, CMY, HSI, 
ANN-HS 
Accuracy = 
99.69% 

J. Imaging 2019, 5, 89 
6 of 33 
 
HSV, YIQ and 
YCbCr  
were selected 
using a hybrid 
ANN) 
[21] 
Grains 
Classification of 
wheat grains to their 
species  
Size, 
color and texture 
Otsu + MLP 
Accuracy = 
99.92% 
[22] 
Flower and 
seedpods of 
soybean plants 
Flower and seedpods 
detection in a crowd 
of soybean plants 
Color (Hue of 
HSV color space) 
for flower 
detection. 
Haar-like 
features for 
seedpods 
detection 
SLIC + 
CNN 
Viola-Jones 
detector + 
CLAHE + 
CNN 
Precision = 
90.00% Recall 
= 82.60% 
F-measure = 
84.00% 
[29] 
Rice 
Image segmentation 
for rice panicles  
Color (L, a, b 
values of the 
CIELAB color 
space) 
SLIC + 
CNN + ERS 
F-measure = 
76.73%  
[35] 
Cotton 
Cotton leaves 
segmentation  
Color (three anti-
light color 
components were 
selected by 
histogram 
statistical with 
mean gray value) 
PCNN + 
Immune 
algorithm 
Accuracy = 
93.50% 
[36] 
Overlapping 
leaves (tested 
on cucumber 
leaves) 
Image segmentation 
of overlapping leaves  Color and Shape 
Sobel + C-V 
model 
Accuracy = 
95.72% 
Table 1 reveals the need to analyse the fruit/plant images in an appropriate color space in order 
to better detect the fruit/plant by extracting discriminative color-based features. Moreover, from the 
contents of Table 1, it is deduced that the CNN models do not show the highest accuracy in all cases, 
but there are shallow models (e.g., MLP, SVM) that perform well in some cases where the available 
data are limited. 
3. Harvest Support Approaches 
Harvesting is a critical agricultural activity which involves the gathering of ripe crops or fruit 
from the fields. Intensive labor is required for detecting and collecting the mature crop/fruit. A 
manual process of sorting is then performed based on various characteristics like size, maturity level, 
shape, and damage level. However, manual sorting is time consuming and subject to human errors, 
leading to variability in the quality of the final product [35]. Thus, there is a need for more accurate 
and efficient methods for evaluating the fruit or crop collected. Sorting agriculture products 
automatically is more efficient compared to the manual approach, which is slow, tedious, and error 
prone. Fruit counting is another very important task for supporting harvest. An accurate and 
automated fruit counting method could assist farmers in optimizing their harvest process. A better 
understanding of the variability of yields across fields can help growers to make more informed and 
cost-effective decisions for labor allotment, storage, packaging, and transportation [37].  
Machine vision has been widely used for automating the harvest process allowing faster and 
accurate sorting and counting of fruit without the use of intensive labor. However, there are many 
factors that make those tasks difficult and challenging. Different lighting conditions can cause 

J. Imaging 2019, 5, 89 
7 of 33 
 
variation in the color of the fruit, leading to misclassification. In case where the fruit has a similar 
color to the rest of the plant (like green apples), the task becomes even more challenging, making it 
hard to detect them using color information. Moreover, overlapping fruits make the detection harder 
and can lead to misclassification and miscounting. In what follows, recent approaches for the support 
of harvest are presented. Since harvesting is about detecting and collecting the mature crop/fruit, the 
selected approaches of the literature are divided and presented into two relevant sections: Section 3.1 
presents fruit grading and ripeness detection approaches, while Section 3.2 deals with fruit counting 
and yield prediction. Section 8 summarizes the presented methods of this section, by providing the 
research gaps, pros and cons, and potential future directions for both approaches. 
3.1. Fruit Grading and Ripeness Detection 
Fruit grading refers to the sorting of fruit based on parameters like size, shape, and maturity 
level. Manual fruit grading is labor intensive and leads to errors due to human involvement in the 
sorting process. To this end, machine vision is used for the automated and accurate grading of fruit. 
A mango grading approach is proposed in [38]. An image processing algorithm based on region 
global thresholding color binarization, combined with median filter and morphological analysis is 
developed to classify mangos into one of three mass grades (large, medium and small). The algorithm 
is simple and can be used in real-time applications. Moreover, it is general in nature and with proper 
adjustment can be applied to other crops as well. However, fluorescent light may be efficient for 
experimenting, yet real-field applications need algorithms that are able to perform well outside of the 
laboratory. An approach on mango size estimation is presented in [39]. A cascade classifier with 
histogram of oriented gradients (HOG) features is used. Then, Otsu’s method, followed by color 
thresholding is applied in the CIE L*a*b* color space to remove background objects (leaves, branches 
etc.). A 1D filter is developed to remove the fruit pedicles, and an ellipse fitting method is employed 
to identify well-separated fruit. Finally, fruit lineal dimensions are calculated using the RGB-D depth 
information, fruit image size, and the thin lens formula. This method is suitable for rapid in-field fruit 
size estimation, practical in terms of cost and ease of use, but cannot be used in direct intense 
sunshine. 
A methodology to estimate the maximum/minimum (polar/equatorial) diameter length and 
mass of olive fruits by means of image analysis is presented in [40]. Image segmentation is performed 
based on mathematical morphology, which maximizes the contrast between the olives and the 
background. Then, the olives are segmented by automated thresholding based on statistical bimodal 
analysis. Results underscore the robustness and accuracy of the method. However, future trials in 
different lighting systems need to be investigated in order to verify the generality of the method to 
other cultivars. In [41] a method for detecting the maturity levels (green, orange, and red) of fresh 
market tomatoes (Roma and Pear varieties) is presented. The proposed technique combines the 
feature color value with the backpropagation neural network (BPNN) classification technique. 
Results indicate that the classification based on color features can potentially be applied for the in-
field yield estimation of fresh tomatoes. Yet, when the maturity of the tomatoes is green, identification 
results range within a considerable margin of error.  
A soya bean ripeness and health detection method based on color and texture features is 
proposed in [42]. The input images are converted from an RGB to HSI color model. For extracting the 
texture features, a gray level cooccurrence matrix is used, and statistical parameters such as energy, 
contrast, correlation, and homogeneity are extracted. Lastly, an ANN is trained based on the extracted 
features for the classification into been ripe, unhealthy, leaf, unripe or ripe but not ready for harvest. 
Though the use of soya beans differs around the globe, predicting their ripeness period will help 
reduce losses. The used images are captured under an uncontrolled environment to obtain their 
natural color without introducing any variation in intensity/brightness to the images.  
An analysis of the performance of RGB, NIR, and depth images for immature citrus fruit 
detection using machine vision techniques is conducted in [43]. First, circular object detection is 
performed to find potential fruit areas. For this purpose, circular hough transform is used for RGB 
and NIR images and CHOI’s circle estimation (‘CHOICE’) algorithm is developed for depth images. 

J. Imaging 2019, 5, 89 
8 of 33 
 
The ‘CHOICE’ algorithm looks for the center of the circles that have the maximum divergence and 
vorticity values. Moreover, the boundary of the circle is chosen according to the sign of the divergence 
and vorticity values. This way, the CHOICE algorithm can find possible spherical objects in the depth 
images. Lastly, the classification of citrus fruit from the background is implemented using AlexNet 
convolutional neural network [44]. The results of this study can play a significant role in evaluating 
the most efficient image types in an outdoor machine vision systems for citrus yield prediction. The 
proposed algorithm can be improved by adopting a tolerance factor to ignore noise from sunlight. 
Moreover, it can be implemented in real-time and combined with unmanned aerial or ground 
vehicles to have a fully automated citrus yield prediction system. 
Table 2 summarizes the main characteristics of the recent fruit grading and ripeness detection 
approaches of the literature.  
Table 2. Fruit grading and ripeness detection approaches. 
Ref. 
Fruit 
Type 
Task 
Feature  
Type 
Method  
Performance 
Indices 
[38] 
Mango  
 
Grading based on size 
(classifying mangos 
into one of three mass 
grades, e.g., large, 
medium, and small) 
Color, 
Geometrical 
and Shape 
Region based 
global 
thresholding 
color 
binarization, 
combined with 
median filter and 
morphological 
analysis 
Accuracy= 
97.00% 
[39] 
Mango 
Size estimation  
Histogram of 
Oriented 
Gradients 
(HOG), Color 
(CIE L*a*b* 
color space) 
Cascade 
classifier, Otsu 
thresholding & 
ellipse fitting 
method 
Precision 100% 
on fruit 
detection. 
 
R2 = 0.96 and 
RMSE = 4.9 mm 
for fruit length 
estimation and 
R2 = 0.95 and 
RMSE = 4.3 mm 
for fruit width 
estimation 
[40] 
Olive 
Estimation of the 
maximum/minimum 
(polar/equatorial) 
diameter length and 
mass of olive fruits 
HSV color space 
(the value and 
saturation 
channels) & 
morphological 
features 
Mathematical 
morphology & 
automated 
thresholding 
based on 
statistical 
bimodal analysis  
Relative mean 
errors  
below 2.50% for 
all tested cases 
 
[41] 
Tomato 
Ripeness detection 
Color (HSI color 
model) 
BPNN 
Accuracy = 
99.31% 
[43] 
Citrus 
Ripeness detection 
Color & shape 
Circular Hough 
Transform + 
CHOI’s Circle 
Estimation 
(‘CHOICE’)+ 
AlexNet 
Recall = 91.60%, 
96.00% and 
90.60 for, NIR 
and depth 
images 
respectively 

J. Imaging 2019, 5, 89 
9 of 33 
 
From the contents of Table 2 it is deduced that the fruit grading and ripeness detection are two 
quite easy tasks since the reviewed works solved these problems with high accuracy rates (above 
90%). However, a more careful analysis of the above methods reveals that these tasks are not so 
difficult for the cases of the examined fruits (mango, olives, tomato, citrus) since their shape is very 
clear and with large variations, while their ripeness can be easily measured visually by processing 
their color changes. However, there are cases where the shape of the fruit is not so clear, or with small 
variations due to overlaps, and their ripeness is not indicated so much by color changes, as in the case 
of green grapes [14]. 
3.2. Fruit counting and yield prediction 
Fruit counting is important for estimating the yield. The estimation of fruit count using machine 
vision is quite challenging. Counting the number and measuring the size of fruit by machine vision 
is based on the suggestion that all fruit on a tree can be seen and are not obstructed by leaves. The 
scientific challenge is to identify each fruit in the tree image with some fruit hidden within the canopy, 
especially in the early period. The appearance of fruit may vary due to illumination and occlusion 
caused by the surrounding foliage and fruits, leading to miscounting. However, early prediction is 
essential for planning labor, bins, and harvest management as well as transport, grading, and storage. 
Recent research efforts which address the problem of fruit counting are presented in this section. 
A methodology for the detection and counting of marigold flowers using HSV color space for 
segmenting the flowers from the background and fitting with circular hough transform (CHT) for 
counting is presented in [45]. The advantage of this approach is that it is capable of detecting and 
counting marigold flower even in occlusion and/or overlapping conditions. For better results, high 
resolution cameras and high-quality images are required. In [46], a fruit detecting and counting 
approach is implemented based on a CNN. A counting algorithm based on a second convolutional 
network is then used for the estimation of the number of fruits and a linear regression model for 
mapping what fruit count estimates to a final fruit count. The advantage of this approach is that it 
addresses the issue of overlapping fruit. However, it is susceptible to errors due the human-generated 
labels (ground-truth) for the input data. In [47], a method for citrus detection and counting is 
proposed. The method consists of the following steps: conversion of RGB image to HSV, 
thresholding, orange color detection, noise removal, watershed segmentation, and counting. The 
watershed transform is effective for the segmentation of objects with unclear boundaries. However, 
it can cause over-segmentation due to the presence of many local minima [31]. For that purpose, 
marker-controlled watershed transformations are deployed. A disadvantage of this approach is that 
fruits could be detected twice due to their areas being split by branches or leaves. 
An image analysis algorithm to detect and count yellow tomato flowers in a greenhouse is 
implemented in [37]. This method uses an adaptive global threshold, segmentation over the HSV 
color space, and morphological cues. The adaptive threshold divides the images into darker and 
lighter regions. Then, segmentation on the HSV color space is performed, and classification is made 
according to the size and location of the flowers. The main advantage of this method is that it 
considers the varying illumination conditions. However, images taken in the afternoon from an angle 
facing the plants provide better results in terms of precision and recall than any other angle. An 
approach of using image analysis and tree canopy features to predict early yield with ANNs is 
presented in [48]. Tree canopy features are proposed in order to overcome the difficulties of counting 
when leaves cover the apple fruit. Two back propagation neural network (BPNN) models are 
developed (for the early period after natural fruit drop in June and the ripening period). For each 
sample image (canopy image), pixels are segmented into fruit, foliage, and background using image 
segmentation. Four features are extracted from the images, namely total cross-sectional area of fruits, 
fruit number, total cross-section area of small fruits, and cross-sectional area of foliage. Then, a BPNN 
is deployed to learn their mutual relationship in order to predict the actual weighted yield per tree. 
The proposed method may reduce the adverse influence from foliage. Hence, the method could be 
used for apple yield prediction in early and late growing periods. However, all experiments were 
conducted on a general model of tree form. Further research will focus on separating a site-specific 

J. Imaging 2019, 5, 89 
10 of 33 
 
model from the general model, and investigate the adaptation of the algorithm to other tree forms or 
similar fruits. 
Table 3 summarizes the main characteristics of the recent fruit counting and yield prediction 
approaches of the literature. 
Table 3. Fruit counting and yield prediction approaches. 
Ref. 
Fruit/Plant 
Type 
Task 
Feature  
Type 
Method  
 
Performance Indices 
[49] 
Marigold 
flowers 
Detection 
and 
counting 
Color (HSV 
color space) 
HSV color 
transform and 
circular Hough 
transform (CHT) 
Average error of 5% 
[37] 
Tomato 
flowers 
Detection 
and 
counting 
Color (HSV) and 
morphological 
(size & location) 
Adaptive global 
threshold, 
segmentation over 
the HSV color 
space, and 
morphological 
cues. 
Precision = 80.00% 
Recall = 80.00% 
[46] 
Apples and 
oranges 
Fruit 
detection 
and 
counting 
Pixel based 
CNN and linear 
regression 
Mean error (in the 
form of ratio of total 
fruit counted and 
standard deviation 
of the errors) of 13.8 
on the oranges, and 
10.5 on the apples. 
[48] 
Apples 
Early yield 
prediction 
Colour (RGB & 
HIS) and Tree 
canopy features 
Otsu+BPNN 
R2 0.82 & 0.80 
[47] 
Citrus 
Detection 
and 
counting 
Color (HSV) 
Histogram 
thresholding + 
Watershed 
segmentation  
 
Mean of the absolute 
error 5.76%  
Table 3 indicates that fruit counting constitutes a difficult task, mainly due to the complex 
background generated by the presence of the tree leaves, which increases the overlapping regions. 
Although the color features can help with fruit detection, the accuracy of fruit counting is highly 
dependent on the size of the fruit. 
4. Plant/Fruit Health Protection and Disease Detection Approaches 
The health of plants and fruits can be affected by various factors. One of most important factors 
that can affect the fruit and plant health is weeds. Weeds require nutrition, light, and moisture, which 
are shared with the growing plant. Thus, if a weed is not detected and removed early it will have a 
negative impact on the growth and quality of the final product. Machine vision has been widely used 
for automating weed detection. This task becomes very challenging when there is not significant 
difference in the color between the plant and the weed. Another factor that can have a negative impact 
in the health of a plant is insects. The monitoring of insects automatically can help growers to protect 
plants and fruits. Machine vision has also been used for detecting diseases and deficiencies. There is 
a considerable body of literature regarding disease detection [5]. Disease detection is a challenging 
task, mainly due to the variability in color and texture of the diseased part. Changing lighting 
conditions can also affect disease detection approaches significantly [3].  

J. Imaging 2019, 5, 89 
11 of 33 
 
The aim of this section is to provide insight into the recent machine vision algorithms that 
address the aforementioned factors affecting the health of plants. Thus, recent research efforts using 
machine vision in (1) weed detection, (2) insect detection, and (3) disease and deficiency detection are 
briefly presented. In the Discussion section, additional information on the literature is provided, 
regarding research gaps, pros and cons, and potential future directions for all three tasks.   
4.1. Weed Detection 
Weed detection refers to the task of automatically detecting weeds between crops. Weeds can 
affect the growth of the plant and the quality of the final product. The challenge in this task is to 
accurately discriminate weed from plant. The presence of illumination variations, overlapping leaves, 
and insignificant color differences between weed and crop make this task more challenging. 
In [50], a weed detection approach is implemented based on HSV color space for the image 
segmentation and a CNN for the classification to weed and carrots. Apparently, due to the great 
difference of color between carrots and weeds, this method based on color performs well. Color 
features are most effective for crops with a distinguishable and unique color [42]. Consequently, in 
cases whereby the color difference is not so significant, it is very possible that this method could not 
accurately discriminate weed from crop. Moreover, color-based methods are susceptible to different 
lighting conditions.  
For that purpose, a texture-based approach to segment the weeds from the main crop based on 
wavelet texture features and ANNs is presented in [51]. Wavelet transformation extracts information 
from several spatial orientations which is helpful for analyzing the content of images, texture 
discrimination, and fractal analysis [52]. Principal component analysis is also used for transforming 
the feature space to a lower number of dimensions. Experimental results reveal that the proposed 
approach is able to distinguish weed from crop even when there was significant amount of occlusion 
and leaves overlapping. Errors occurred mainly in areas where the crop’s leaf surface was wrinkled 
or deformed. However, these errors were very small, accounting for less than 1% of the 
misclassifications. A weed detection approach from video streams is proposed in [42]. The HSV color 
space is used for discriminating crop, weeds and soil. The region of interest (ROI) is defined by 
filtering each of the HSV channels between certain values (minimum and maximum threshold 
values). The region is then further refined using a morphological erosion and dilation process, and 
the moment method is applied to determine the position and mass distribution of objects in video 
sequences so as to track crops. High accuracies are obtained in the classification of various categories 
of crop leaves. 
A weed recognition system is proposed in [53] to be used in a robotic system for the weed 
detection problem. It uses an image resolution of 200 × 150 pixels, speed-up robust feature (SURF) 
[54] features over dense feature extraction, an optimized Gaussian Mixture Model based codebook 
combined with Fisher encoding, a two level image representation, and a linear classifier. The method 
stands out for its simplicity of computation, leading to an improved speed of execution. However, 
the possibilities of further improvements to the speed of execution using advanced parallel and GPU 
based computing methodologies needs to be investigated. Moreover, the dataset acquisition process 
needs to be extended in order to better represent realistic working conditions in various 
environmental and illumination conditions. A weed detection approach that relies on a fully 
convolutional network with an encoder–decoder structure incorporating spatial information by 
considering image sequences is presented in [55]. The experimental results show that it performs 
better compared with recently published approaches: (i) using a semi-supervised vision and 
geometry based approach based on random forests [56] and (ii) employing a purely visual FCN 
classifier solely based on RGB data [57], which takes vegetation indices as additional plant features 
(PF) into account. Results reveal that the proposed system generalizes well previously unseen fields 
under varying environmental conditions, without retraining of the model. A vegetation segmentation 
and classification method is proposed in [58]. First, the normalized difference vegetation index 
(NDVI) images used as training data are represented by the max-tree hierarchy [59]. The 
segmentation step selects regions from the hierarchy based on their size stability over a series of grey 

J. Imaging 2019, 5, 89 
12 of 33 
 
levels. In contrast to the global thresholding methods like Otsu's thresholding [60], a decision about 
each region is taken locally. This way, even in the presence of noise, the plant regions are easily 
visually distinguishable due to their high local dissimilarity with their background. The 
segmentation process results in a set of distinct regions with associated attributes, which are used as 
region features for the training of an SVM classifier. Although the advantage of the region-based 
approach is that it only classifies a few objects per image, it cannot accurately classify the pixels of 
regions that contain both value crop and weed pixels. For those cases, a pixel-based classifier is 
proposed to be investigated in future work. 
Table 4 presents the main characteristics of recent weed detection approaches of the literature. 
Table 4. Weed detection approaches. 
Ref. 
Fruit/Plant 
Type 
Task 
Feature  
Type 
Method 
Performance 
Indices 
[61] 
Weed in 
cauliflower 
plants fields 
Weed 
detection 
Color (HSV color 
space) and 
morphological 
Morphological 
Image Analysis 
 
Recall = 98.91% 
Precision = 99.04% 
[50] 
Weed in 
carrots fields 
Weed 
detection 
Color (HSV color 
space) 
CNN 
Precision = 99.10% 
F-measure = 
99.60%  
Accuracy = 99.30% 
[53] 
Broad-
leaved dock 
weed 
Weed 
detection 
Speed-Up Robust 
Feature (SURF) 
[54], 
SURF + GMM 
Accuracy = 89.09% 
and false-positive 
rate 4.38%  
[57] 
 
Weed in 
crop fields  
Weed 
detection 
Color (RGB) and 
plant features 
(vegetation 
indices) 
Deep encoder-
decoder CNN 
 
Results in 3 
datasets: Precision 
98.16% & Recall 
93.35%, 
Precision 67.91% & 
Recall 63.33%, 
Precision 87.87 & 
Recall 64.66% 
[51] 
Weed in 
sugarbeet 
fields 
Weed 
detection 
Wavelet texture 
features 
PCA+ANN 
Accuracy = 96.00% 
[55] 
Weed in 
sugarbeet 
fields 
Weed 
detection 
Spatial 
information 
CNN + encoder-
decoder structure 
Results in 2 
datasets: Precision 
97.90% & Recall 
87.80%, Precision 
72.70% & Recall 
95.30% 
[58] 
Weed in 
sugarbeet 
fields 
Weed 
detection 
Attribute 
morphology 
based 
Selection of regions 
based on max-tree 
hierarchy [59] and 
classification with 
SVM 
F-measure = 
85.00% (onions) F-
measure = 76.00% 
(sugarbeet) 
From Table 4 it is obvious that the problem of weed detection can be solved with high accuracy 
only in the cases where the fruit/plant differs significantly in color to the weed, e.g., carrots. On the 
contrary, when the color of the fruit/plant is very close to the color of the weed, more sophisticated 
features (e.g. texture features) need to be deployed in order to detect accurately the weed. 
4.2. Insect Detection 

J. Imaging 2019, 5, 89 
13 of 33 
 
Pest management is one of the main concerns for farmers. Reductions in production loss and 
crop damages can affect marketable yields. Therefore, farmers use several methods to control and 
protect fields against pest damages. During recent years, the use of pesticides has increased due to 
their initial low cost, easy accessibility, quick influence, and the lack of knowledge on the part of 
farmers, resulting in dangerous consequences for public health, animals, and the environment. Thus, 
better methods of pest control, other than the use of chemical pesticides, are needed. Insects can cause 
great damage to plants and fruits. For example, Lobesia botrana is an invasive insect considered as one 
of the most damaging pests in vineyards (Vitis vinifera L.) [53]. The traditional methods for insect 
identification are time-consuming and require expert knowledge. To this end, machine vision has 
been deployed for automatically identifying insects. Machine vision for automated insect 
identification, may lead to increasing the work speed and precision, and decreasing human errors, 
since farmers may have limited pest scouting expertise. 
A method for L. botrana recognition is presented in [62] using a clustering-based image 
segmentation with descriptors, which considers gray scale values and gradients in each segment. The 
proposed system allows for fast and scalable cloud-computing analysis of the images, providing an 
ideal environment for in-field applications. In [63], a grapevine bug detection method is 
implemented. The method involves the use of scale-invariant feature transform (SIFT) for calculating 
low-level features, bag of features (BoF) for building an image descriptor, and an SVM classifier. This 
method claims to be robust to realistic scenarios, i.e., in outdoor, under natural field conditions, in 
winter, without artificial background, and with minimal equipment requirements. A pest detection 
method in strawberry plants is proposed in [64]. The methodology uses an SVM model using hue, 
saturation and intensify color indices, and the ratio of major diameter to minor diameter as a region 
index. The method is implemented for real-time detection of parasites from flower surface images 
with relatively small error. 
Table 5 summarizes the main characteristics of the above research efforts on insect detection. 
Table 5. Insect detection approaches. 
Ref. 
Fruit/Plant 
Type 
Task 
Feature  
Type 
Method 
Performance 
Indices 
[62] 
Grapes 
L.botrana 
recognition 
Color (gray scale values and 
gradient) 
Clustering 
Specificity = 
95.10% 
[63] 
Grapes 
Grapevine bug 
detection 
SIFT 
SVM 
Precision = 
86.00% 
[64] 
Strawberry 
plants 
Pest detection 
in strawberry 
plants 
Color (HSI color space) & 
morphological (ratio of 
major diameter to minor 
diameter in region) 
SVM 
MSE = 0.471  
From Table 5, it is obvious that the task of insect detection constitutes a typical object recognition 
problem, which can be addressed by applying shallow machine learning models with acceptable 
accuracy. However, it seems that it is quite difficult to detect multiple types of insects simultaneously, 
probably due to the small size of the insects compared to the size of the fruit/plant.  
4.3. Disease and Deficiencies Detection  
Disease and deficiency detection refers to the automatic detection of parts of the plant that are 
not healthy. This subject is under research due to its importance and variability, a fact that makes this 
task quite challenging. Depending on the kind of disease or deficiency, and the type of fruit or plant, 
the diseased part varies in color and texture. Changing of lighting conditions can also affect the 
appearance of the diseased part [3]. 
The study presented in [65] focuses on the automatic identification of nutritional deficiencies of 
Boron (B), Calcium (Ca), Iron (Fe) and Potassium (K), using descriptors of the shape and texture of 
coffee leaves images. Image segmentation is performed using the Otsu method, the blurred form 

J. Imaging 2019, 5, 89 
14 of 33 
 
model (BSM) descriptions, and the gray-level co-occurrence matrix (GLCM) to extract shape and 
texture features. Then, , k-Nearest Neighbors (k-NN), naïve Bayes and neural network classifiers are 
trained by using the extracted features in order to predict the type of deficiency presented in each 
analyzed image. Although the experimental results show that the naïve Bayes classifier and the BSM 
descriptor have higher performance than the rest of the methods, the general performances were 
relatively poor (F-measure 64.9%). An approach for disease detection in citrus plants is presented in 
[66]. Delta E (DE) is used for segmentation, RGB, HSV (color histogram) and LBP (textural 
information) as descriptors on the collected images. Fine k-NN, Cubic SVM, boosted tree, and bagged 
tree ensemble classification methods are used, with the bagged tree ensemble classifier performing 
better by using any color features compared to the other classifiers. The experimental results showed 
that the color features are important as well as the textural features in the detection of plant diseases. 
Further, the combination of these features is also useful in the detection of the diseased area in the 
plant. A correlation-based feature selection method to identify apple leaf disease is proposed in [67]. 
Color, texture, and shape features are used as inputs to an SVM model to classify apple leaf diseases. 
However, the proposed method fails to identify apple leaf diseases under natural illumination. In 
[68], a method for plant disease detection based on SIFT features is proposed. The input image is pre-
processed to extract the whole region of the leaf. the scale-invariant feature transform (SIFT) features 
are extracted from the pre-processed image. The extracted SIFT features are modeled by a generalized 
pareto distribution (GP). The two parameters of the GP model are combined with GLCM statistical 
features to form the new proposed feature vector. Finally, an SVM classifier is trained using the 
extracted feature vectors. The proposed features achieve acceptable classification accuracy. However, 
although the training time and prediction speed of the classifiers may be acceptable for mobile 
devices, but not applicable for real-time prediction. 
A method for detecting lesions on wheat leaves based on the C-V model [69] is presented in [70]. 
The C-V model is used in agricultural image processing, where the data contents of a region of 
interest are extracted as prior information. However, in the C-V model the R, G, and B channels in 
the region of interest are fixed, and the weights for each channel of the color images are determined 
artificially. In this paper, PCA is used for selecting three color channels from the R, G, B, H, S, and 
adaptive weights of each channel are obtained by calculating the contrast of the object and 
background pixel values. K-means clustering is then used for separating the lesion region from the 
rest of the leaf. Experimental results show that this method achieves better segmentation accuracy 
than those of the initial circle curve or initial Otsu segmentation with fewer iterations. However, 
when the examined regions are ambiguous with respect to the background, the proposed method 
does not achieve satisfying results. 
In [71], a content based image retrieval system (CBIR) for retrieving diseased leaves of soybean 
is presented. CBIR based system involves two steps; feature extraction and feature matching. For this 
purpose, color, shape and texture features are extracted. Specifically, color features are extracted 
using HSV color histogram. Shape features are provided in the form of matching key points by the 
SIFT algorithm. Finally, a new texture feature is proposed, namely local gray Gabor pattern (LGGP), 
by combining local binary pattern (LBP) and Gabor filter. The extracted feature vectors are stored 
and when a query image is given, its features are extracted, and its distance to the feature vectors is 
calculated in order to find the one with the smallest distance. The proposed system provides 
promising results. These results are database dependent. If size of database is changed then result 
may alter. A method for detecting diseases in potato leaves is implemented in [72]. Leaf is segmented 
from the background with the determination of thresholds for L*, a* and b* channels instead of using 
auto-threshold like Otsu. Then, the GLCM is applied for extracting statistical texture features like 
contrast, correlation, energy and homogeneity. Numerical indicators like mean, standard deviation, 
entropy, skew and energy are calculated from the histograms of the extracted color planes. Finally, 
an SVM classifier is trained on the extracted features to classify the leaves into affected and healthy 
ones. The classification rates of the method are high, pathing the way toward automated plant 
diseases diagnosis on a massive scale. Potentially, more types of diseases affecting various types of 
plants will be integrated to the system. 

J. Imaging 2019, 5, 89 
15 of 33 
 
An image processing method using color information and region growing for segmenting 
greenhouse vegetable foliar disease spot images captured under real field conditions is presented in 
[73]. The quality of color index-based segmentation decreases dramatically when locally uneven 
illumination occurs. For that purpose, a comprehensive color feature (CCF) is proposed which 
combines excess red index (ExR) [74], H component of HSV color space, and b* component of L*a*b* 
color space, which are invariant to illumination [75]. Then, an interactive region growing method 
based on the CCF map is used for disease spot segmentation from the clutter background. The 
experimental results indicate that the algorithm performs better than K-means clustering and Otsu 
algorithm for the segmentation of disease spots on images captured under real field conditions. Both 
the K-means clustering algorithm and Otsu algorithm are affected by locally uneven illumination and 
background noise, causing a lot of false positives segmentations. A method for the detection and 
classification of diseases in citrus leaves is implemented in [76]. Image segmentation is performed 
with K-means clustering. GLCM texture features are extracted and used for training an SVM classifier 
for the disease classification. Results are promising, and future work includes the experimentation of 
diseases in different plant species. In [77], a disease detection and classification method for citrus 
leaves and fruit is presented. First, image pre-processing is performed to improve the contrast of 
input images by applying a top-hat filter and Gaussian function. Specifically, the top-hat filter is used 
to improve the visual quality of input image, which is further improved by a difference-Gaussian 
image. For the segmentation of the disease lesion spots a weighted segmentation method is proposed, 
which uses chi-square distance and threshold function. Then, color, texture, and geometric features 
are fused in a codebook. Feature selection is performed by a hybrid feature selection method, which 
consists of PCA score, entropy, and skewness-based covariance vector. The selected features are 
given as inputs to a multi-class support vector machine (M-SVM) for citrus disease classification. A 
comprehensive comparison shows that the proposed method outperforms the existing methods in 
the literature when tested on the same datasets. Future work includes a deep model to be applied to 
the selected citrus datasets, as the deep learning is reported to perform well in the field of computer 
vision. However, the latter needs a big dataset in order to be implemented. 
A cucumber disease recognition approach is proposed in [78]. The method consists of 
segmenting diseased leaf images by K-means clustering, extracting shape and color features from 
lesion information, and classifying diseased leaf images using sparse representation (SR). An 
advantage of this approach is that the classification in the SR space can effectively reduce the 
computation cost and improve the recognition performance. Although the SR based recognition 
method shows its advantage over other methods, at the current stage it is not clear how to efficiently 
construct the over-complete dictionary of SR. A plant disease detection and classification method 
based on fusion of super-pixel clustering, K-means clustering, and pyramid of histograms of 
orientation gradients (PHOG) algorithms is proposed in [79]. First, the images are divided into a few 
compact super-pixels by super-pixel clustering algorithm (after transformation to L*a*b* color space 
from RGB). Then, K-means clustering is used to segment the lesion image from each super-pixel. 
Finally, the PHOG [80] features are extracted from three color components of each segmented lesion 
image and its grayscale image. The concatenated four PHOG descriptors are given as inputs to a 
context-aware support vector machine (C-SVM) classifier with a radial basis kernel function for the 
plant disease classification. The effectiveness of applying super-pixels to parameter estimation of the 
algorithm is because they reduce the complexity of images from thousands of pixels to only a few 
hundreds of super-pixels. 
Table 6 summarizes the main characteristics of the discussed research efforts on disease and 
deficiencies detection. 
Table 6. Disease and deficiencies detection approaches. 
Ref. 
Fruit/Plant 
Type 
Task 
Feature 
Type 
Method 
Performance 
Indices 
[65] 
Coffee 
leaves 
Identification of 
nutritional 
Color, shape 
& texture 
Otsu + BSM+ 
GLCM  
F-measure = 
64.90% 

J. Imaging 2019, 5, 89 
16 of 33 
 
deficiencies of 
Boron (B), Calcium 
(Ca), Iron (Fe) and 
Potassium (K) 
[68] 
Plants 
Plant disease 
detection 
SIFT+ 
statistical 
features 
SVM  
Accuracy = 
78.70% 
[70] 
Wheat 
Detecting lesions 
on wheat leaves 
Color 
 (C–V) + PCA+ K-
means 
Accuracy = 
84.17% 
[71] 
Soybean 
leaves 
Image retrieving 
diseased leaves of 
soybean 
HSV Color + 
SIFT +LGGP 
Calculation of 
distance of the 
feature vectors to 
find the one with 
the smallest 
distance. 
Average 
retrieval 
efficiency 
of 80.00% (for 
top 5 retrieval) 
and 72.00% (for 
top 10 retrieval) 
[72] 
Potato 
leaves 
Disease detection 
Color, texture 
and statistical 
Hard 
thresholding (L*, 
a* and b* 
channels) + SVM 
Accuracy = 
93.70% 
[72] 
Greenhouse 
vegetable 
Detection of foliar 
disease spots 
CCF+ExR 
Interactive region 
growing method 
based on the CCF 
map 
Precision = 
97.29% 
[66] 
Citrus plants 
Disease detection 
Color (RGB, 
HSV color 
histogram) 
and texture 
(LBP)  
Delta E (DE)+ 
Bagged tree 
ensemble 
classifier 
Accuracy = 
99.90% 
[75] 
Citrus leaves  
Disease detection 
and classification 
GLCM 
K-means + SVM 
Accuracy = 
90.00% 
[76] 
Citrus leaves 
Disease detection 
and classification  
Color, 
texture, and 
geometric  
PCA + Multi-
Class SVM. 
 
Accuracy = 
97.00%, 89.00%, 
90.40% on three 
datasets 
[77] 
Cucumber 
leaves 
Disease detection 
and classification 
Shape and 
color 
K-means + SR 
Accuracy = 
85.70% 
[78] 
Cucumber 
and apple 
leaves 
Disease detection 
and classification 
PHOG [80] 
K-means + 
Context-Aware 
SVM 
Accuracy = 
85.64% (apples) 
Accuracy = 
87.55% 
(cucumber) 
[67] 
Apple leaves 
Disease 
identification 
Color, texture 
and shape 
features 
SVM  
Accuracy = 
94.22% 
The problem of disease and deficiencies detection seems to be a difficult task as can be concluded 
from Table 6. The accuracy of the reviewed methods is mostly limited, below 90%, with almost of 
them using texture features and shallow machine learning models. The difficulty of this problem 
comes from the need to describe the diseased surface of the leaves in such a way as to discriminate it 
from the healthy surface. Moreover, the high overlap regions of the leaves do not permit the accurate 
quantification of the leaves’ surfaces. 

J. Imaging 2019, 5, 89 
17 of 33 
 
5. Camera Types Used for Machine Vision in Agriculture 
The selection of the appropriate camera equipment for a specific machine vision application in 
crop farming constitutes a quite laborious task, considering the diverse cameras that are available in 
the market. Therefore, some selection criteria need to be defined by the designer considering mainly 
the application requirements that need to be satisfied. The purpose of this section is to give useful 
insights to researchers by outlining the general types of equipment used for acquiring images/video 
for machine vision applications in agriculture according to the literature. The camera’s sensor 
resolution, frame rate, image transfer rate (connectivity), and price seem to be the most important 
factors that need to be examined in order to select the appropriate camera that fits the needs of each 
application.  
Based on the application, the camera device can be decided based on three broader categories, 
namely: RGB cameras, multispectral cameras and stereovision cameras. The most simple and 
affordable vision system consists of a single RGB camera. This is the main reason why they are 
extensively used in agricultural machine vision applications for fruit/plant detection [16,17,22,45–47], 
yield prediction [48], segmentation tasks [21,29,35,36], disease detection [66,69,71,73], ripeness 
detection [40,41], weed detection [53,58,61] and insects detection [63,64]. As an alternative affordable 
and convenient solution for image capturing, the RGB build-in cameras of mobile devices are also 
used [19,37]. When using RGB cameras, the potential for effective image processing is due to the use 
of efficient image analysis algorithms, rather than image quality. RGB color space is adequate for 
image display, but not for color processing, since the intensity is not decoupled from the chromaticity 
and there is a high correlation between the components R, G and B [81]. For this reason, RGB images 
are not appropriate for algorithms that use color processing. Moreover, it is well-known that the color 
information in an image is very important in image segmentation, but it is very sensitive to 
illumination. The negative effects of nonuniform illumination may be reduced by normalizing the 
color vectors, however, they are not totally eliminated [81]. On top of that, the complex background 
increases any induced difficulty. The quality of images depends on camera’s intrinsic properties 
dealing with lighting conditions, sizes of objects, and distance from the object. For better results, 
cameras with higher resolution are preferred. 
Humans perceive colors in the three broad channels R, G, and B, but plants are potentially 
discriminated by higher-precision color measurements [82]. Some studies utilize multispectral 
images, referring to hyperspectral, thermal, or ultrasonic camera technologies for object (fruit, plant, 
insects, leaves etc.) detection [20,38,43,55,83]. These technologies typically provide better results than 
conventional RGB color images. This is because objects with similar color may exhibit different 
reflectance in non-visible regions, and thereby, they are easily distinguished with non-conventional 
RGB cameras. On the other hand, these technologies require expensive devices compared with RGB 
cameras, and therefore are not affordable for practical use. The combination of the two technologies, 
,i.e., the addition of multispectral filters to a low-cost vision system, has the potential to provide 
features of interest strongly related to discriminatory wavelengths [82].  
Furthermore, the differentiation of distinct plants, such as crops and weed, is difficult in a 2D 
image. As an additional parameter, the dimension of crops (depth information, crop height, leaf 
shape, leaf area etc.) can be monitored. This can be achieved with stereo vision. Three dimensional 
plant structure derived from stereoscopic cameras is used in applications to crop and plant 
monitoring and species discrimination [39,43].  
The above analyses reveal that there are diverse types of cameras available for image acquisition, 
depending on the specific agricultural application. However, the critical factor in all cases is the 
camera’s resolution, which should be high enough to capture the details of the scene especially in the 
cases of insect and disease detection [71]. Moreover, when there are needs for embodying machine 
vision capabilities to an autonomous vehicle (agrobot), the usage of an industrial camera [20,55] with 
high speed communication abilities (e.g., GigE) and increased frame rate is, in some sense, inevitable.  
6. Vision-Based Vehicle Guidance Systems for Agricultural Applications 

J. Imaging 2019, 5, 89 
18 of 33 
 
After examining the most representative approaches in machine vision applications for crop 
farming and the camera equipment used to implement them, it would be very constructive to review 
briefly the vision-based vehicle systems proposed in the literature that deployed such kinds of 
machine vision approaches. 
Automated agricultural vehicles are capable of a longer duration of work, as an autonomous 
vehicle may outlast a human worker, increase productivity, increase application accuracy, and 
operation safety. Autonomously driven robots can help farmers reduce the manpower and hours 
needed to fulfill the needed agricultural tasks, and at the same time conduct other high-level tasks, 
as navigation is automated. Moreover, autonomous navigation is environmental and economically 
friendly compared to traditional methods of accomplishing the same assignment, since vehicles do 
not wander around the fields meaningless but navigate optimally to specific areas of interest by 
choosing the shortest paths. Thus, farmers can better use their resources in terms of time and money 
(i.e., fuel and salaries), therefore saving money and economizing a better product for the masses. 
With these benefits in mind, autonomous vehicles no longer exist at the fantasy level, but are 
becoming feasible, and they are much needed nowadays [84]. For these reasons, automatic vehicle 
navigation in agricultural applications is considered as a separate field of science. 
Early guiding systems used sophisticated sensors, demonstrating technical feasibility [85]. High 
cost and low reliability were the main reasons for non-commercialization of these systems. 
Nowadays, navigation is strongly related to positioning information of the vehicle in a global or a 
local coordinate system. Global positioning systems (GPS) are widely used as global guidance sensors 
[86,87]. The main disadvantage of GPS-based navigation is the low precision of GPS receivers. Typical 
GPS precision is about ±50cm, which is an important tolerance in the case of precision farming.  
Machine vision is used complimentary to GPS and sensors in order to enhance the precision of 
navigation. When crop row structure is distinct in a field, machine vision can be implemented to 
automatically guide a vehicle in the field. On one hand, the guiding sensor (camera) is only local, 
since it reveals information regarding the relative location of the vehicle. On the other hand, the use 
of local features can be used to fine-tune the vehicle navigation course [88]. Machine vision provides 
the technological characteristics to simulate the eyes of a human operator, thus, has a great potential 
in navigation systems [89]. The problem of navigation in plant structures is the fact that harvesting 
or mowing changes the scene of the lines of the field. In most of the cases, though, the plants grow in 
rows, producing a natural set of lines, which define the image, thus making the processing more 
distinct. In general, autonomous navigation systems for agricultural mobile robot consists of 
navigation sensors, computational methods, and navigation control strategies. Figure 1 presents the 
aforementioned basic elements.  
Image processing techniques have been implemented to crop row images in order to define the 
directrix for a vehicle. In what follows, the most recent techniques of the literature are briefly 
described. Table 7 summarizes the selected applied techniques and comparatively presents their 
reported pros and cons. The aim of this section is to suggest the deep insights and general knowledge 
regarding vision-based vehicle guidance systems by grouping or analyzing approaches through 
similar research articles of the literature.  
In [90], crop rows are identified in images using Hough transform. The platform proposed in 
[91] uses an E/H steering system and a feedforward-plus-PID steering controller in support of 
automated guidance actuation. Redundant posture sensor, including GPS, geomagnetic direction 
sensors (FOG), and machine vision sensing systems are used on this platform for providing 
automated guidance information. A robust procedure with row segmentation by K-means clustering 
algorithm, row detection by a moment algorithm, and guidance line selection by a cost function are 
proposed in [88]. Auxiliary information, such as known crop row spacing, is used for the 
development of the guidance directrix. In order to guide an autonomous vehicle through the field in 
[92] a vision-based row detection system is used based on grey-scale Hough transform on 
intelligently merged images. The experiment takes place in a sugar beet field in a greenhouse. A 
method to detect crop rows to guide agricultural robots to work in real time even under a wide range 
of illumination situations is described in [93]. Image pre-processing is conducted to obtain the 

J. Imaging 2019, 5, 89 
19 of 33 
 
binarization image and vertical projection method to estimate the position of the crop rows for image 
strips. The detection of crop rows is defined by Hough transform. The machine vision-based 
autonomous navigation system in [94] constitute three steps. Firstly, the camera calibration is applied 
to obtain the relationship between the image coordinates and the world coordinates. Then, pattern 
recognition and image processing are used to obtain a quasi-navigation baseline. Lastly, the real 
navigation line is extracted from the quasi navigation baseline via Hough transform. 
 
Figure 1. Basic parts of an autonomous vision-based navigation system. 
A color image of an orchard is classified into orchard elements by a multilayer feedforward 
neural network in [95]. The extraction of the desired path is performed by Hough transform after a 
filtering operation. A novel vision-based technique for navigation of agricultural mobile robots in 
orchards is suggested in [96]. The captured color image is clustered by the mean-shift algorithm. 
Then, a classification technique based on graph partitioning theory classifies clustered image into 
defined classes including terrain, trees and sky. Hough transform is applied to extract the required 
features to define the desired central path for robot navigation in orchard rows. A RTK-DGPS (real 
time kinematic differential global positioning system)-based autonomous field navigation system 
including automated headland turns is presented in [97] to provide a method for crop row mapping 
combining machine vision, and to evaluate the benefits of a behavior-based reactive layer in a hybrid 
deliberate system architecture. Vision-based row guidance is presented in [98]. The camera is used to 
detect and identify crop plants, and then accurate and stable navigation information is extracted from 
the binary image, which includes the offset and heading angle of the robot relative to the guidance 
row from the image. The vehicle in [99] uses a combination of GPS and machine vision to navigate 
kiwifruit orchards, maneuver around obstacles such as posts, and recognize braces. In [84], a machine 
vision sensor is proposed to guide a vehicle in a row of trees. The basic concept of applying machine 
vision for navigation is for measuring the relative position of the vehicle concerning a landmark and 
use that to estimate the vehicle’s heading. The goal of [84] is to develop an algorithm to autonomously 
guide a small robotic ground vehicle platform along an orchard row, following the path of the row 
using an upward looking camera combined with a controller based on feature recognition from the 
contrast between the tree canopies and the sky. The method presented in [100] is based on a particle 
filter (PF) using a novel measurement model, where a model image is constructed from the particle 
and compared directly with the measurement image after elementary processing, such as down-
sampling, excessive-green filtering and thresholding. Machine vision and laser radar (ladar) are 

J. Imaging 2019, 5, 89 
20 of 33 
 
individually used for guidance in [101]. A rotary encoder is used to provide feedback on the steering 
angle. A PID controller is developed to minimize the path error. The vehicle’s guidance accuracy is 
tested in flexible test paths constructed of common hay bales. A stereo image processing algorithm is 
developed in [102] which detects and tracks ground features captured in two consecutive field 
images, acquired using a vehicle-mounted stereo camera. These ground features are used as reference 
points to calculate the lateral offset. A precise measurement of the vehicle’s lateral offset can help 
achieve navigation accuracy. A variable field-of-view machine vision method is developed in [103] 
allowing an agricultural robot to navigate between rows in cornfields. Guidance lines are detected 
using an image processing algorithm, employing morphological features in a far, near and lateral 
field of view, and the robot was guided along these lines using fuzzy logic control. In the method 
presented in [104] natural frames are analyzed in RGB vector space to research the feasibility of curve 
path detection of unstructured roads. Perceptual color clustering and morphological image 
processing have been used as pre-processing to obtain the segmented path. The pixels of the 
segmented image are analyzed from right to left, line-by-line to find the middle points of the path. In 
order to obtain the optimal navigation path, the least-squares curve fitting method is implemented, 
and finally, a new method of obtaining the navigation parameters is introduced. In [105], the HSΙ 
(hue, saturation, intensity) color model is used to process images, and a threshold algorithm based 
on the H component is used to produce grayscale images. According to the characteristics of the crop 
rows in the image, a method of crop line identification based on linear scanning is proposed. Fuzzy 
control is used to control the agricultural implement.  
Although there have been research developments in machine vision guiding systems during the 
last years, shortcomings such as low robustness of versatility and dependability of technologies are 
obstructing the improvements required for the commercialization of guidance systems. It should be 
noted that GPS and machine vision technologies need to be combined or at least one of them needs 
to be fused with another technology (e.g., laser radar) as to develop efficient agricultural vehicle 
guidance systems in the future. Moreover, autonomous navigation in an agricultural environment is 
demanding due to the inherent uncertainty of the environment. The robot needs to navigate in an 
unstructured, dynamically changing environment with many sources of noise (e.g., rough terrain or 
varying shapes, sizes and color of the plants or inconsistency in the environment structure). This 
problem is enhanced by adding the hardware related noise like imprecise sensor measurements, 
wheel slippage, controller and actuator noise. Developing a navigation system to handle all the 
aforementioned uncertainties and their variations is not simple but rather challenging. 

J. Imaging 2019, 5, 89 
21 of 33 
 
Table 7. Machine vision-based techniques for automated navigation of agricultural vehicles. 
Ref. 
Reported Advantages 
Reported Disadvantages 
Main Technique 
[90] 
Integrates information over a number of crop rows, making the 
technique tolerant to missing plants and weeds. 
Confined to situations where plants are established in rows. 
Hough transform 
[91] 
Points in various directrix classes were determined by 
unsupervised classification. The sensor fusion-based 
navigation could provide satisfactory agricultural vehicle 
guidance even while losing individual navigation signals such 
as image of the path, or the GPS signal for short periods of 
time. 
When the steering input frequency was higher than 4 Hz, the 
steering system could not respond to the steering command. 
A heuristic method and 
Hough transform 
[88] 
Good accuracy from two test data sets: a set of soybean images 
and a set of corn images. The procedure is considered 
acceptable for real-time vision guidance applications in terms 
of its accuracy. 
K-means algorithm in the procedure limits the processing 
speed, which is acceptable for real-time applications if the 
controller output rate is faster and is independent of the image 
update rate. The performance of the image processing 
procedure degrades significantly under adverse environmental 
conditions such as weeds. The fusion of vision sensor with 
other navigation sensors, such as GPS, is needed in order to 
provide a more robust guidance directrix. 
K-means clustering 
algorithm, a moment 
algorithm, and a cost 
function 
[92] 
A considerable improvement of the speed of image processing. 
The algorithm is able to find the row at various growth stages. 
Inaccuracies exist because of a limited number and size of crop 
plants, overexposure of the camera, and the presence of green 
algae due to the use of a greenhouse. Inaccuracies accounted 
for by footprints indicate that linear structures in the soil 
surface might create problems. High image acquisition speed, 
results to images overlapped each other for a large part, thus, 
total amount of images is too large. 
Grey-scale Hough 
transform 
[93] 
In the pre-processing the binarization image was divided into 
several row segments, which created less data points while still 
reserved information of crop rows. Less complex data 
facilitated Hough transform to meet the real-time 
requirements. 
Rows and inter-row spaces could not be segmented clearly. 
Within the growth of wheat, the rows became overlapped. 
Narrow inter-row spaces of the field made it difficult to 
discriminate all of the rows in view. A great number of weeds 
between the crop rows disturbed the row detection algorithm 
Vertical projection 
method and Hough 
transform 
[94] 
The system is not restricted to a specific crop and has been 
tested on several green crops. After examination in a laboratory 
Camera calibration has good results if the robot moves in a 
smooth field. When the field is uneven, the calibration result is 
unstabilized. Rows and inter-row spaces must be segmented 
Grey-level 
transformation, Otsu 

J. Imaging 2019, 5, 89 
22 of 33 
 
and in-field, results show that the method can attain navigation 
parameters in real time and guide the mobile robot effectively. 
clearly so as the quasi navigation baseline to be detected easily. 
If the field has narrow inter-row spaces, rows became 
overlapped, which makes them difficult to separate from 
background. 
binarization, and 
Hough transform 
[95] 
Achieves good classification accuracy. The desired path is 
properly calculated in different lighting conditions. 
Classification based on NN requires training, validation and 
testing of a number of samples, which is time-consuming. NN 
classification is a supervised technique. 
A multilayer 
feedforward neural 
network and Hough 
transform 
[96] 
The proposed technique is unsupervised. It can be used as a 
complementary system to the other navigational systems such 
as LiDAR to provide a robust and reliable navigation system 
for mobile robots in orchards. 
For not well-structured orchards, a filtering process is required 
to extract the path. Not tested in different lighting conditions. 
Mean-shift algorithm, 
graph partitioning 
theory, and Hough 
transform 
[97] 
The method limits required a priori information regarding the 
field. Paths are generated in real-time. The architecture of the 
software is transparent, and the software is easily extendible. 
Very slow. Further improvements in the accuracy of path 
following of a straight path are not to be expected due to 
technical reasons. 
Grey-scale Hough 
transform 
[98] 
A local small window of interest is determined as the ladder 
structure to improve the real-time detection algorithm, and to 
minimize the effect of the useless information and noises on 
detection and identification. 
Error of the camera position would result in errors of the 
provided data. Therefore, the camera requires efficient 
calibration. The plants in the field were selected artificially 
with the similar size and height and planted in a perfect row. 
Easily affected in real field conditions, e.g., uneven field, man-
made measure error, wheels sideslip due to soft/moist soil etc. 
Edge detection, image 
binarization, and least 
square methods 
 
[99] 
The robot has demonstrated capability to use artificial vision 
for navigation without artificial visual markers. The vision 
software has enough intelligence to perceive obstacles. 
When the vehicle is under the canopy, it relies on the cameras 
to find the way, but when it is not under the kiwifruit canopy 
the system relies on GPS and a compass to navigate. Because 
the camera lenses are short, provision must be made to handle 
fisheye in the stereopsis. 
Hough transform 
[84] 
Inconsistent lighting, shadows, and color similarities in 
features are eliminated by using a sky-based approach where 
the image was reduced to canopy plus sky, thus simplifying 
the segmentation process. This produces a more sensitive 
control system. The cropped image contains less data needing 
to be processed, resulting in faster processing time and more 
rapid response of the ground vehicle platform. 
There are large deviations from the center of the row when 
there are sections with a break in the canopy due to either a 
missing tree or a tree with limited leaf growth. The proposed 
approach is effective only when the trees have fully developed 
canopies. Inadequate for canopies year-round such as citrus or 
fruit trees that lose their leaves in the winter. It only tackles the 
straight-line motion down the row but not the end of the row 
conditions. 
Thresholding 
approach, filtering, and 
determination of 
centroid of the path 

J. Imaging 2019, 5, 89 
23 of 33 
 
[100] 
The proposed model does not extract features from the image 
and thus does not suffer from errors related to feature 
extraction process. Efficient for different row patterns, varying 
plant sizes and diverse lighting conditions. The robot navigates 
through the corridor without touching the plant stems, detects 
the end of the rows and traverses the headland 
Lack of robustness to uncertainties of the environment. The 
estimation of the state vector is less accurate during headland 
compared to row following. When the robot is in the headland 
only a small part of the rows is visible making the estimation 
of the orientation of the robot heading less precise. Incorrect 
estimates of row width and row distance result to inaccuracies. 
Particle filter algorithm 
[101] 
Alternative navigation method where the tree canopy 
frequently blocks the satellite signals to the GPS receiver. The 
performance is better at lower speeds of the vehicle. 
No obstacle detection capability. Low performance at high 
speed of the vehicle. 
Segmentation 
algorithm 
[102] 
Successfully tested on both straight and curved paths, 
navigation is based only on stereoscopic vision.  
Reduced accuracy of lateral offset estimation when the vehicle 
navigates on curved paths. The algorithm is developed based 
on the assumption of no camera rotations while travelling in 
the field. Not implemented in real-time. 
Stereo image 
processing algorithm 
[103] 
Acceptable accuracy and stability, tested without damaging the 
crop. 
Uneven cornfield caused by residual roots and hard soil clods 
results in a poorer performance. 
Segmentation and 
Max–Min fuzzy 
inference algorithm 
[104] 
High speed and remarkable precision. The navigation 
parameters in the algorithm can control the robot movement 
well. The algorithm displays better overall robustness and 
global optimization for detecting the navigation path compared 
to Hough transform, especially in curved paths. 
When using a straight line to detect navigation directrix, the 
algorithm does not perform well. 
 
Image segmentation, 
and least-squares curve 
fitting method 
[105] 
Resolves the problem of illumination interference for image 
segmentation, adapts to changes in natural light and has good 
dynamic performance at all speeds. 
No obstacle avoidance 
Threshold algorithm, 
linear scanning, and a 
fuzzy controller 

J. Imaging 2019, 5, 89 
24 of 33 
 
7. Vision-Based AgroBots  
Agricultural practices have introduced a new problem, namely the need to implement guidance 
technology, e.g., a fertilizing machine or a row weeder along a crop row, with extreme accuracy. 
Typically, this was performed manually by a person having a direct view of the rows. This is getting 
impossible with the modern growing concept, which is demanding in terms of money and time. The 
narrow row spacing compared to the wide implementations proposed for agricultural practices, 
would require very careful handling and quick reactions by the human operator. Moreover, 
industrialized application in vast fields would be overwhelming for a human operator. 
Automatically guided agricultural vehicles will not fatigue, and can reduce an operator's work 
intensity, resulting in enhanced efficiency and increased operation safety. For this reason, the need 
for developing systems for automatic guidance with respect to crop rows has become imperative. 
Agricultural robots, namely AgroBots, were introduced to apply precision techniques for agricultural 
operations such as harvesting, weeding, spraying, transportation, etc. Such techniques are also 
involved in the application of chemicals that are placed in such a way as to have an optimal effect 
with the minimum quantity or placement of fertilizer close to the crop so as to minimize the supply 
of nutrients to the weeds. The latter also comprises the recent but increasing concern of farmers about 
the environmental impacts of agriculture, not only regarding harsh chemicals, but also wasting water. 
The main goal of AgroBots is to sense targets online and to work on a plant scale with extreme 
accuracy. AgroBots can save labor costs, prevent workers from performing risky operations, and 
provide the farmer with up-to-date and precise information to assist management decisions. Thus, 
developing AgroBots is one of the challenges that agriculture is facing in industrialized countries, 
especially those derived from labor shortage and ever-increasing production costs. 
Even though robots are widely used for automation in industry, it is rather uncommon to meet 
robots in agriculture. The industrial environment is, comparatively to agriculture fields, clean, dry, 
predictable and well-lit while fields provide unpredictable conditions in terms of light, weather and 
terrain. Moreover, industrial automation involves uniform, specific components robust for robotic 
manipulation, while agricultural automation deals with crops which vary in many ways; color, size 
shape, position, are frequently covered by foliage and are sensitive to handle. AgroBots have been 
introduced in structured environments (i.e., simulated plantation in laboratories), as well as different 
indoor (i.e., greenhouses) and outdoor agricultural environments. However, only a few vision-
guided systems have been successfully developed and tested in real field trials. Table 8 summarizes 
some of the reported autonomous mobile ArgoBots from the literature.  
The study on ArgoBots is mainly divided in two categories. The first category is based on tractors 
and other agricultural machinery to develop intelligent systems with navigation functions as 
described in the previous section. The other category is to independently develop intelligent mobile 
platforms for agriculture, as described in the current section. However, the latter intelligent platforms 
are used to solve specific problems on automation of agricultural production, and they are limited to 
specific functions. In other words, they refer to specific application environments, thus, it is not easy 
to expand and improve. Moreover, the commercialization of AgroBots is scarce due to their limited 
seasonal usage, which indirectly increases the cost of agricultural production. The reliability of a 
machine to fulfill precise farming work instead of human is another drawback that keeps AgroBots 
off the market. The intelligence level of AgroBots needs to be improved further so as gain the farmer’s 
confidence. Though high intelligence is required for an AgroBot to achieve higher production, it is 
very important to be: (1) simple in its structure, (2) affordable, in terms of what it offers, (3) easy to 
manipulate, and (4) adaptive to the needs of the agricultural production. A simple structure refers 
also to a small size. A robot of a smaller size is more easily transferable and possibly less expensive. 
It should be investigated if crop production may be performed quicker, better, and cheaper with a 
swarm of small robots rather than a few large ones. Moreover, one of the advantages of smaller robots 
is that they may become acceptable and popular to the non-agricultural community, for domestic 
personal use rather than mass usage. 
Table 8. Vision-based autonomous mobile AgroBots. 

J. Imaging 2019, 5, 89 
25 of 33 
 
Ref. 
Description 
Application (Year) 
Photo 
[90] 
Visual sensing for an autonomous 
crop protection robot. Image 
analysis to derive guidance 
information and to differentiate 
between plants, weed and soil. 
Tested in cauliflowers, 
sugar beet and widely 
spaced double rows of 
wheat (1996) 
 
Image from [90] 
[106] 
A commercial agricultural 
manipulation for fruit picking and 
handling without human 
intervention. Machine vision takes 
place with segmentation of a frame 
during the picking phase. 
Semi-autonomous 
orange picking robot 
(2005) 
 
Image from [106] 
[107] 
Use of a vision system that retrieves 
a map of the plantation rows, within 
which the robot must navigate. After 
obtaining the map of the rows, the 
robot traces the route to follow (the 
center line between the rows) and 
follows it using a navigation system 
Tested in a simulated 
plantation and in a 
real one at the "Field 
robot Event 2006" 
competition (2006) 
 
Image from [107] 
[108] 
Precise application of herbicides in a 
seed line. A machine vision system 
recognizes objects to be sprayed and 
a micro-dosing system targets very 
small doses of liquid at the detected 
objects, while the autonomous 
vehicle takes care of the navigation. 
Experiments carried 
out under controlled 
indoor conditions 
(2007) 
 
Image from [108] 
[99] 
The vision system identifies fruit 
hanging from the canopy, 
discriminating size and defects. 
Fruits are placed optimally in a bin 
and when it is full, the vehicle puts 
the bin down, takes an empty bin, 
picks it up and resumes from its last 
position 
Autonomous 
kiwifruit-picking robot 
(2009) 
 
Image from [99] 
[98] 
The offset and heading angle of the 
robot platform are detected in real 
time to guide the platform on the 
basis of recognition of a crop row 
using machine vision 
Robot platform that 
navigates 
independently. Tested 
in a small vegetable 
field (2010) 
 
Image from [98] 
[97] 
Development of an RTK-DGPS-
based autonomous field navigation 
system including automated 
headland turns and of a method for 
crop row mapping combining 
machine vision and RTK-DGPS. 
Autonomous weed 
control in a sugar beet 
field (2011) 
 
Image from [97] 

J. Imaging 2019, 5, 89 
26 of 33 
 
[109] 
An algorithm of generating 
navigation paths for harvesting 
robots based on machine vision and 
GPS navigation. 
Tested in an orchard 
for apple picking 
(2011) 
 
Image from [109] 
Table 8 reports in chronological order some of the autonomous mobile ArgoBots from the 
literature. The Agrobot presented in [90] uses threshold plant blobs as input features and Hough 
transform to find the vehicle offset and heading angle with respect to the plant rows. Small errors in 
offset and angle are reported. The effect of vision errors can be reduced when the data are fused with 
odometry in the vehicle controller. The angular accuracy could also be improved by adjusting the 
optical configuration to give more perspective. The vehicle of [106] is affected by the distribution of 
the fruits in the tree. Moreover, it is reported for the robot a mean picking time of fruit greater than 
that of a human picker. Modifications have been suggested in order to improve its performance, 
including new algorithms for real-time fruit tracking, evaluation of the fruit’s 3D position, and 
mechanical modifications of the structure so the arms are able to reach the fruit quickly and 
simultaneously. In [107], the proposed vision system appears to be very robust. The robot can 
navigate with acceptable behavior. Reported disadvantages are the oscillations when the vehicle 
comes out of the turns. Future work should include a model predictive control navigation technique 
in order to diminish the oscillations and more exhaustive tests on the developed system for different 
speed values and more difficult paths. The robot implemented in [108] demonstrates good ability to 
target objects with subcentimetre accuracy. However, under realistic outdoor conditions, the 
accuracy is reduced. Unpredictable conditions such as weed, varying soil and wind effects are 
considered as potential problems. Future work suggests shielding in order to minimize the potential 
wind effects. The agricultural robot of [99] has four picking arms, each of which is programmed to 
pick one fruit per second. The system is characterized by adequate vision, navigation, and the 
delicacy of fruit picking and handling. The system developed in [98] exhibits good performance. 
Preliminary experimental results on the algorithms of row identification and row guidance are 
effective according to the parameters measured and analyzed such as the heading angle and the offset 
for row guidance and the difference between the motion trajectory of the robot and the expected 
trajectory. Compared with the indoor experiment, the in-field experiment reveals lower performance. 
The main reasons for this include some factors such as a rough field, man-made measurement error, 
wheel sideslip due to soft and moist soil, etc. Additionally, it should be noted that the plants in the 
field were selected artificially with a similar size and height and planted along rows. The Agrobot of 
[97] can be guided along a defined path with centimeter precision. The architecture of the robot makes 
it easily expandable by adding new behaviors with small changes. In order to be able to navigate 
precisely under bumpier conditions, roll compensation is required. The vehicle of [109] is reported to 
generate navigation path reliably. However, the implemented algorithms are suitable for fields where 
the ground contains fewer weeds. and the main areas of trees are more visible.    
8. Discussion  
In this paper, recent research efforts in machine vision for agriculture applications were 
reviewed. Machine vision can support agricultural activities by providing accurate and efficient 
solutions that have been traditionally performed manually. Manual methods tend to be labor 
intensive and error prone. In particular, this paper addresses three main issues concerning the 
machine vision systems in agricultural task of crop farming, namely (1) plant/fruit detection 
(segmentation), (2) harvesting, and (3) health monitoring. For each of these tasks, challenges, research 
gaps and potential future directions are being discussed in the rest of the section. 
In order for a machine vision approach to perform an agricultural activity like fruit grading first 
image segmentation should be performed in order to separate the target (i.e. fruit) from the 
background. Therefore, plant and fruit detection are very important and critical tasks. Illumination 
variations, fruits overlapping, hidden fruit in foliage and branches, and similar color variations 

J. Imaging 2019, 5, 89 
27 of 33 
 
between the target and its background are some of the main factors that affect the segmentation 
process. The appropriate handling of these factors constitutes a great challenge towards developing 
more robust and accurate machine vision based agrobots. Color-based plant and fruit detection 
approaches are described in [16,15,19,40,41]. However, color approaches can be affected by the 
lighting variations. Changing lighting conditions are addressed by the methods presented in [22,35] 
which deploy histogram selection with mean grey value and CLAHE [27], respectively, for enhancing 
the robustness against various lighting conditions. Texture, color and size features are used in [21] 
for the detection of grains and classification of their species, while [36] uses color and shape features 
for segmenting cucumber leaves. The latter work [36] addressed the problem of overlapping by 
deploying edge detection with Sobel operators and C-V model. Lastly, the problem of similar colors 
between the target and background is addressed in [16], which uses super-pixels in order to generate 
a saliency map and Gaussian curve fitting for segmenting green apples. Regarding the used machine 
learning algorithms, it is worth noting that the SLIC clustering method is deployed in [17,22,29], 
neural networks are also applied in several studies [15,20,21,35], while [17] uses SVM and PCA for 
reducing the features dimensions.  
Harvesting is a main agricultural activity and refers to the collection of ripe fruit or crops. 
Machine vision has been deployed for supporting harvest by providing solutions on automated fruit 
grading, ripeness detection, fruit counting and yield prediction. Fruit grading refers to the sorting of 
fruits based on inherent properties like size and shape. Thus, machine vision approaches for fruit 
grading deploy besides color, geometrical and shape features [38] [43]. Ripeness detection is mostly 
performed based on color [41,43]. For fruit counting, color [45,47] and morphological features [37] 
are deployed. Overlapping of fruit and occlusion are addressed in [45], which use circular fitting with 
Hough transform. The variation in lighting conditions are addressed in [37], which use an adaptive 
global threshold and morphological cues. As far as the use of machine learning algorithms is 
concerned, neural networks (convolutional and back propagation) are also deployed [46,48]. 
 
Machine vision is also used for protecting the health of the plant and detecting deficiencies and 
diseases. Weed detection is a main agricultural activity that is performed in order to protect the 
plant’s growth. Weeds share the same resources with the plant (like moisture) and thus can affect 
plant health. The main challenges in this task are the handling of the illumination variation and the 
overlapping leaves. A color-based weed detection approach in carrot fields is presented in [49]. In 
the case of weed detection in crop fields where the color difference is not very high, a texture-based 
approach can be deployed [50] to tackle the overlapping cases. Research conducted in [52] revealed 
that the proposed weed detection approach based on SURF features and Gaussian mixture model 
outperforms a geometry-based approach based on random forests [55] and a FCN, which took into 
account vegetation indices as features. A region-based weed detection approach is suggested in [57]. 
However, it cannot accurately classify the pixels of regions that contain both value crop and weed 
pixels. For those cases, a pixel-based classifier is proposed. Regarding the used machine learning 
algorithms, neural networks [49,50,56,54] and SVM [57] are commonly applied. Insects can cause 
damage to plants and fruits. For better protecting the plant health, vision-based approaches for insect 
detection have been proposed. Clustering based on color features is deployed in [61] for L. botrana 
recognition in grapevines, while SVM is deployed in approaches presented in [62,63], which consider 
SIFT, color, and morphological features, respectively. Disease and deficiency detection refers to the 
automatic detection of parts of the plant that are not healthy. Challenges related to this task include 
the handling of illumination variations and of the color variance of the diseased part [3]. Automatic 
identification of nutritional deficiencies in coffee leaves are addressed in [64]. Naïve Bayes and BSM 
descriptor are reported outperforming k-NN and Neural Network classifiers. However, the reported 
F-measure is not high (64.9%). A bagged tree ensemble classifier based on color features is proposed 
in [65] for detecting diseases in citrus plants. The experimental results show that the proposed 
classifier outperformed k-NN, SVM and boosted tree classifiers. A method for detecting lesions on 
wheat leaves based on the C-V model is presented in [68], while PCA and K-means clustering are 
applied in [69]. Experimental results reveal that this approach outperforms Otsu segmentation. 
Illumination variation is addressed in [72], which proposed a new color feature vector, which is 

J. Imaging 2019, 5, 89 
28 of 33 
 
invariant to illumination. The experimental results showed that the proposed approach outperforms 
K-means clustering and Otsu segmentation on images captured under real field conditions. Finally, 
SVM classifiers are deployed in research efforts [66,67,71,75,76,78]. 
9. Conclusions  
Machine vision is integrated in agricultural settings for a number of different tasks. The 
appropriate selection of a system is an additional guarantee for the accomplishment of most 
agricultural operations with precision and relative speed. In this regard, this work has addressed the 
following main topics: (1) plant and fruit detection approaches, (2) harvesting support approaches 
including fruit grading, ripeness detection, fruit counting and yield prediction, (3) plant and fruit 
health protection, and disease detection approaches including weed, insect detection, disease and 
deficiency detection, (4) camera types used for machine vision in agriculture, (5) vision-based vehicle 
guidance systems (navigation) for agricultural applications, and (6) vision-based autonomous mobile 
agricultural robots.  
The design of adequate software is a key factor for the effective functioning of mobile robots. 
The presentation of recent algorithms for basic agricultural tasks that took place in the previous 
sections is in-line with this key factor; presenting the recent trends on machine vision algorithms for 
basic agricultural tasks in order to be evaluated, selected and integrated to a mobile robot. Algorithms 
need to be suitable for the automation of agricultural operations oriented for a semi-structured 
environment, such as an agricultural environment. That is, some structures within the fields are 
known, e.g., the columns in a grapevine or the exact position of the trees in an olive grove, so 
deterministic tasks related to them can be optimized. However, a field is more of a non-stable 
environment. Reactive tasks that take place in the fields need to be executed in real-time and have to 
consider dynamic local conditions, impossible to be known a priori (weed, foliage, bad weather 
condition, lighting etc.). On top of that, researchers need to develop appropriate robot architectures 
that could coordinate reactive behaviors, like stopping on emergencies or reacting to specific inputs 
in a decision-making way, thus leading to autonomous intelligent robotic behaviors in the field.   
The aim of this work is to serve as a guide for the researcher and practitioner alike in the 
agricultural field by providing the latest advancements in machine vision applications for agriculture 
with a focus on crop farming. To this end, the current review does not only focus on a specific 
agricultural challenge (e.g., disease detection) or fruit type or plant (e.g., citrus) but rather outlines 
research conducted in different agricultural activities of crop farming, also covering more technical 
subjects, such as vision-based vehicle guidance systems and autonomous mobile agricultural robots. 
Author Contributions: E.M., E.V., G.A.P., T.P and V.G.K. conceived and designed the work; E.M., E.V. and 
G.A.P. analyzed the literature; E.M. and E.V. wrote the paper; G.A.P., T.P. and V.G.K. reviewed and corrected 
the paper. 
Funding: This research has been co-financed by the European Union and Greek national funds through the 
Operational Program Competitiveness, Entrepreneurship and Innovation, under the call RESEARCH – CREATE 
– INNOVATE (project code: T1EDK-00300). 
Acknowledgments: We would like to thank the anonymous reviewers for their constructive comments that 
allowed us to further improve this work. 
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest.  
References 
1. 
Pereira, C.S.; Morais, R.; Reis, M.J.C.S. Recent advances in image processing techniques for automated 
harvesting purposes: A review. In Proceedings of the 2017 Intelligent Systems Conference (IntelliSys), 
London, UK, 7–8 September 2017; pp. 566–575. 
2. 
Kamilaris, A.; Prenafeta-Boldú, F.X. Deep learning in agriculture: A survey. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2018, 
147, 70–90. 

J. Imaging 2019, 5, 89 
29 of 33 
 
3. 
Iqbal, Z.; Khan, M.A.; Sharif, M.; Shah, J.H.; ur Rehman, M.H.; Javed, K. An automated detection and 
classification of citrus plant diseases using image processing techniques: A review. Comput. Electron. Agric. 
2018, 153, 12–32. 
4. 
Patrício, D.I.; Rieder, R. Computer vision and artificial intelligence in precision agriculture for grain crops: 
A systematic review. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2018, 153, 69–81. 
5. 
Pajares, G.; García-Santillán, I.; Campos, Y.; Montalvo, M.; Guerrero, J.; Emmi, L.; Romeo, J.; Guijarro, M.; 
Gonzalez-de-Santos, P. Machine-Vision Systems Selection for Agricultural Vehicles: A Guide. J. Imaging 
2016, 2, 34. 
6. 
Reid, J.F.; Zhang, Q.; Noguchi, N.; Dickson, M. Agricultural automatic guidance research in North America. 
Comput. Electron. Agric. 2000, 25, 155–167. 
7. 
Bechar, A.; Vigneault, C. Agricultural robots for field operations: Concepts and components. Biosyst. Eng. 
2016, 149, 94–111. 
8. 
Shalal, N.; Low, T.; McCarthy, C.; Hancock, N. A Review of Autonomous Navigation Systems in 
Agricultural Environments. Soc. Eng. Agric. Conf. Innov. Agric. Technol. Sustain. Futur. 2013. 
9. 
Yaghoubi, S.; Akbarzadeh, N.A.; Bazargani, S.S.; Bazargani, S.S.; Bamizan, M.; Asl, M.I. Autonomous robots 
for agricultural tasks and farm assignment and future trends in agro robots. Int. J. Mech. Mechatronics Eng. 
2013, 13, 1–6. 
10. 
Torii, T. Research in autonomous agriculture vehicles in Japan. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2000, 25, 133–153. 
11. 
Ji, B.; Zhu, W.; Liu, B.; Ma, C.; Li, X. Review of Recent Machine-Vision Technologies in Agriculture. In 
Proceedings of the 2009 Second International Symposium on Knowledge Acquisition and Modeling, 
Wuhan, China, 30 November–1 December 2009; pp. 330–334. 
12. 
Kitchenham, B. Procedures for Performing Systematic Reviews; Joint Technical Report, Computer Science 
Department, Keele University (TR/SE0401) and National ICT Australia Ltd. ( 0400011T.1), 2004; ISSN 1353-
7776. 
13. 
Benitti, F.B.V. Exploring the educational potential of robotics in schools: A systematic review. Comput. Educ. 
2012, 58, 978–988. 
14. 
Badeka, E.; Kalabokas, T.; Tziridis, K.; Nicolaou, A.; Vrochidou, E.; Mavridou, E.; Papakostas, G.A.; 
Pachidis, T. Grapes Visual Segmentation for Harvesting Robots Using Local Texture Descriptors. In 
Computer Vision Systems (ICVS 2019); Springer: Thessaloniki, Greece, 2019; pp. 98–109. 
15. 
Behroozi-Khazaei, N.; Maleki, M.R. A robust algorithm based on color features for grape cluster 
segmentation. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2017, 142, 41–49. 
16. 
Li, B.; Long, Y.; Song, H. Detection of green apples in natural scenes based on saliency theory and Gaussian 
curve fitting. Int. J. Agric. Biol. Eng. 2018, 11, 192–198. 
17. 
Dias, P.A.; Tabb, A.; Medeiros, H. Apple flower detection using deep convolutional networks. Comput. Ind. 
2018, 99, 17–28. 
18. 
Li, D.; Zhao, H.; Zhao, X.; Gao, Q.; Xu, L. Cucumber Detection Based on Texture and Color in Greenhouse. 
Int. J. Pattern Recognit. Artif. Intell. 2017, 31, 1754016. 
19. 
Prasetyo, E.; Adityo, R.D.; Suciati, N.; Fatichah, C. Mango leaf image segmentation on HSV and YCbCr 
color spaces using Otsu thresholding. In Proceedings of the 2017 3rd International Conference on Science 
and Technology-Computer (ICST), Yogyakarta, Indonesia, 11–12 July 2017; pp. 99–103. 
20. 
Sabzi, S.; Abbaspour-Gilandeh, Y.; Javadikia, H. Machine vision system for the automatic segmentation of 
plants under different lighting conditions. Biosyst. Eng. 2017, 161, 157–173. 
21. 
Sabanci, K.; Kayabasi, A.; Toktas, A. Computer vision-based method for classification of wheat grains using 
artificial neural network. J. Sci. Food Agric. 2017, 97, 2588–2593. 
22. 
Yahata, S.; Onishi, T.; Yamaguchi, K.; Ozawa, S.; Kitazono, J.; Ohkawa, T.; Yoshida, T.; Murakami, N.; Tsuji, 
H. A hybrid machine learning approach to automatic plant phenotyping for smart agriculture. In 
Proceedings of the 2017 International Joint Conference on Neural Networks (IJCNN), Anchorage, AK, USA, 
14–19 May 2017; pp. 1787–1793. 
23. 
Achanta, R.; Shaji, A.; Smith, K.; Lucchi, A.; Fua, P.; Süsstrunk, S. SLIC Superpixels Compared to State-of-
the-Art Superpixel Methods. IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell. 2012, 34, 2274–2282. 
24. 
Rosten, E.; Porter, R.; Drummond, T. Faster and Better: A Machine Learning Approach to Corner Detection. 
IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell. 2010, 32, 105–119. 

J. Imaging 2019, 5, 89 
30 of 33 
 
25. 
Rublee, E.; Rabaud, V.; Konolige, K.; Bradski, G. ORB: An efficient alternative to SIFT or SURF. In 
Proceedings of the 2011 International Conference on Computer Vision, Barcelona, Spain, 6–13 November 
2011; pp. 2564–2571. 
26. 
Viola, P.; Jones, M.J. Robust Real-Time Face Detection. Int. J. Comput. Vis. 2004, 57, 137–154. 
27. 
Zuiderveld, K. Contrast Limited Adaptive Histogram Equalization. In Graphics Gems; Elsevier: Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands, 1994; pp. 474–485 ISBN 0123361559. 
28. 
Bishop, C.M. Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning (Information Science and Statistics), 1st edn. 2006. 
corr. 2nd printing edn. Springer. 2006. 
29. 
Xiong, X.; Duan, L.; Liu, L.; Tu, H.; Yang, P.; Wu, D.; Chen, G.; Xiong, L.; Yang, W.; Liu, Q. Panicle-SEG: A 
robust image segmentation method for rice panicles in the field based on deep learning and superpixel 
optimization. Plant Methods 2017, 13, 104. 
30. 
Lecun, Y.; Bottou, L.; Bengio, Y.; Haffner, P. Gradient-based learning applied to document recognition. 
Proc. IEEE 1998, 86, 2278–2324. 
31. 
Liu, M.-Y.; Tuzel, O.; Ramalingam, S.; Chellappa, R. Entropy rate superpixel segmentation. In Proceedings 
of the CVPR 2011, Providence, RI, USA, 20–25 June 2011; pp. 2097–2104. 
32. 
Yang, W.; Tang, W.; Li, M.; Zhang, D.; Zhang, Y. Corn tassel detection based on image processing. In 
Proceedings of the 2012 International Workshop on Image Processing and Optical Engineering; SPIE: 
Harbin, China, 9-10 January 2011. 
33. 
Duan, L.; Huang, C.; Chen, G.; Xiong, L.; Liu, Q.; Yang, W. Determination of rice panicle numbers during 
heading by multi-angle imaging. Crop J. 2015, 3, 211–219. 
34. 
Lu, H.; Cao, Z.; Xiao, Y.; Li, Y.; Zhu, Y. Region-based colour modelling for joint crop and maize tassel 
segmentation. Biosyst. Eng. 2016, 147, 139–150. 
35. 
Zhang, J.; Kong, F.; Zhai, Z.; Wu, J.; Han, S. Robust Image Segmentation Method for Cotton Leaf Under 
Natural Conditions Based on Immune Algorithm and PCNN Algorithm. Int. J. Pattern Recognit. Artif. Intell. 
2018, 32, 1854011. 
36. 
Wang, Z.; Wang, K.; Yang, F.; Pan, S.; Han, Y. Image segmentation of overlapping leaves based on Chan–
Vese model and Sobel operator. Inf. Process. Agric. 2018, 5, 1–10. 
37. 
Oppenheim, D.; Edan, Y.; Shani, G. Detecting Tomato Flowers in Greenhouses Using Computer Vision. Int. 
J. Comput. Electr. Autom. Control Inf. Eng. 2017, 11, 104–109. 
38. 
Momin, M.A.; Rahman, M.T.; Sultana, M.S.; Igathinathane, C.; Ziauddin, A.T.M.; Grift, T.E. Geometry-
based mass grading of mango fruits using image processing. Inf. Process. Agric. 2017, 4, 150–160. 
39. 
Wang, Z.; Walsh, K.; Verma, B. On-Tree Mango Fruit Size Estimation Using RGB-D Images. Sensors 2017, 
17, 2738. 
40. 
Ponce, J.M.; Aquino, A.; Millán, B.; Andújar, J.M. Olive-Fruit Mass and Size Estimation Using Image 
Analysis and Feature Modeling. Sensors 2018, 18, 2930. 
41. 
Wan, P.; Toudeshki, A.; Tan, H.; Ehsani, R. A methodology for fresh tomato maturity detection using 
computer vision. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2018, 146, 43–50. 
42. 
Abdulhamid, U.; Aminu, M.; Daniel, S. Detection of Soya Beans Ripeness Using Image Processing 
Techniques and Artificial Neural Network. Asian J. Phys. Chem. Sci. 2018, 5, 1–9. 
43. 
Choi, D.; Lee, W.S.; Schueller, J.K.; Ehsani, R.; Roka, F.; Diamond, J. A performance comparison of RGB, 
NIR, and depth images in immature citrus detection using deep learning algorithms for yield prediction. 
In Proceedings of the 2017 Spokane, Washington, DC, USA, 16–19 July 2017. 
44. 
Krizhevsky, A.; Sutskever, I.; Hinton, G.E. ImageNet classification with deep convolutional neural 
networks. Commun. ACM 2017, 60, 84–90. 
45. 
Sethy, P.K.; Routray, B.; Behera, S.K. Detection and Counting of Marigold Flower Using Image Processing 
Technique. In Lecture Notes in Networks and Systems; ; Springer: Singapore, 2019; pp. 87–93. 
46. 
Chen, S.W.; Shivakumar, S.S.; Dcunha, S.; Das, J.; Okon, E.; Qu, C.; Taylor, C.J.; Kumar, V. Counting Apples 
and Oranges With Deep Learning: A Data-Driven Approach. IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett. 2017, 2, 781–788. 
47. 
Dorj, U.-O.; Lee, M.; Yun, S. An yield estimation in citrus orchards via fruit detection and counting using 
image processing. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2017, 140, 103–112. 
48. 
Cheng, H.; Damerow, L.; Sun, Y.; Blanke, M. Early Yield Prediction Using Image Analysis of Apple Fruit 
and Tree Canopy Features with Neural Networks. J. Imaging 2017, 3, 6. 

J. Imaging 2019, 5, 89 
31 of 33 
 
49. 
Sethy, P.K.; Routray, B.; Behera, S.K. Advances in Computer, Communication and Control. In Lecture Notes 
in Networks and Systems; Biswas, U., Banerjee, A., Pal, S., Biswas, A., Sarkar, D., Haldar, S., Eds.; Springer 
Singapore: Singapore, 2019; Volume 41, ISBN 978-981-13-3121-3. 
50. 
Knoll, F.J.; Czymmek, V.; Poczihoski, S.; Holtorf, T.; Hussmann, S. Improving efficiency of organic farming 
by using a deep learning classification approach. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2018, 153, 347–356. 
51. 
Bakhshipour, A.; Jafari, A.; Nassiri, S.M.; Zare, D. Weed segmentation using texture features extracted from 
wavelet sub-images. Biosyst. Eng. 2017, 157, 1–12. 
52. 
Mallat, S.G. A theory for multiresolution signal decomposition: The wavelet representation. IEEE Trans. 
Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell. 1989, 11, 674–693. 
53. 
Kounalakis, T.; Triantafyllidis, G.A.; Nalpantidis, L. Image-based recognition framework for robotic weed 
control systems. Multimed. Tools Appl. 2018, 77, 9567–9594. 
54. 
Bay, H.; Ess, A.; Tuytelaars, T.; Van Gool, L. Speeded-Up Robust Features (SURF). Comput. Vis. Image 
Underst. 2008, 110, 346–359. 
55. 
Lottes, P.; Behley, J.; Milioto, A.; Stachniss, C. Fully Convolutional Networks With Sequential Information 
for Robust Crop and Weed Detection in Precision Farming. IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett. 2018, 3, 2870–2877. 
56. 
Lottes, P.; Stachniss, C. Semi-supervised online visual crop and weed classification in precision farming 
exploiting plant arrangement. In Proceedings of the 2017 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent 
Robots and Systems (IROS), Vancouver, BC, Canada, 24–28 September 2017; pp. 5155–5161. 
57. 
Milioto, A.; Lottes, P.; Stachniss, C. Real-Time Semantic Segmentation of Crop and Weed for Precision 
Agriculture Robots Leveraging Background Knowledge in CNNs. In Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE 
International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), Brisbane, QLD, Australia, 21–25 May 2018; 
pp. 2229–2235. 
58. 
Bosilj, P.; Duckett, T.; Cielniak, G. Connected attribute morphology for unified vegetation segmentation 
and classification in precision agriculture. Comput. Ind. 2018, 98, 226–240. 
59. 
Salembier, P.; Oliveras, A.; Garrido, L. Antiextensive connected operators for image and sequence 
processing. IEEE Trans. Image Process. 1998, 7, 555–570. 
60. 
Otsu, N. A Threshold Selection Method from Gray-Level Histograms; IEEE: Piscataway, NJ, USA, 1979. 
61. 
Hamuda, E.; Mc Ginley, B.; Glavin, M.; Jones, E. Automatic crop detection under field conditions using the 
HSV colour space and morphological operations. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2017, 133, 97–107. 
62. 
García, J.; Pope, C.; Altimiras, F. A Distributed Means Segmentation Algorithm Applied to Lobesia botrana 
Recognition. Complexity 2017, 2017, 1–14. 
63. 
Pérez, D.S.; Bromberg, F.; Diaz, C.A. Image classification for detection of winter grapevine buds in natural 
conditions using scale-invariant features transform, bag of features and support vector machines. Comput. 
Electron. Agric. 2017, 135, 81–95. 
64. 
Ebrahimi, M.A.; Khoshtaghaza, M.H.; Minaei, S.; Jamshidi, B. Vision-based pest detection based on SVM 
classification method. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2017, 137, 52–58. 
65. 
Vassallo-Barco, M.; Vives-Garnique, L.; Tuesta-Monteza, V.; Mejía-Cabrera, H.I.; Toledo, R.Y. Automatic 
detection of nutritional deficiencies in coffee tree leaves through shape and texture descriptors. J. Digit. Inf. 
Manag. 2017, 15, 7–18. 
66. 
Ali, H.; Lali, M.I.; Nawaz, M.Z.; Sharif, M.; Saleem, B.A. Symptom based automated detection of citrus 
diseases using color histogram and textural descriptors. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2017, 138, 92–104. 
67. 
Chuanlei, Z.; Shanwen, Z.; Jucheng, Y.; Yancui, S.; Jia, C. Apple leaf disease identification using genetic 
algorithm and correlation based feature selection method. Int. J. Agric. Biol. Eng. 2017, 10, 
doi:10.3965/j.ijabe.20171002.2166. 
68. 
Hlaing, C.S.; Zaw, S.M.M. Plant diseases recognition for smart farming using model-based statistical 
features. In Proceedings of the 2017 IEEE 6th Global Conference on Consumer Electronics (GCCE), Nagoya, 
Japan, 24–27 October 2017; pp. 1–4. 
69. 
Chan, T.F.; Vese, L.A. Active contours without edges. IEEE Trans. Image Process. 2001, 10, 266–277. 
70. 
Hu, Q.; Tian, J.; He, D. Wheat leaf lesion color image segmentation with improved multichannel selection 
based on the Chan–Vese model. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2017, 135, 260–268. 
71. 
Patil, J.K.; Kumar, R. Analysis of content based image retrieval for plant leaf diseases using color, shape 
and texture features. Eng. Agric. Environ. Food 2017, 10, 69–78. 

J. Imaging 2019, 5, 89 
32 of 33 
 
72. 
Islam, M.; Anh Dinh; Wahid, K.; Bhowmik, P. Detection of potato diseases using image segmentation and 
multiclass support vector machine. In Proceedings of the 2017 IEEE 30th Canadian Conference on Electrical 
and Computer Engineering (CCECE), Windsor, ON, Canada, 30 April–3 May 2017; pp. 1–4. 
73. 
Ma, J.; Du, K.; Zhang, L.; Zheng, F.; Chu, J.; Sun, Z. A segmentation method for greenhouse vegetable foliar 
disease spots images using color information and region growing. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2017, 142, 110–
117. 
74. 
Meyer, G.E.; Hindman, T.W.; Laksmi, K. Machine Vision Detection Parameters for Plant Species Identification; 
Meyer, G.E., DeShazer, J.A., Eds.; Proceedings of the SPIE: Washington, DC, USA, 1999; pp. 327–335. 
75. 
Zhou, R.; Kaneko, S.; Tanaka, F.; Kayamori, M.; Shimizu, M. Disease detection of Cercospora Leaf Spot in 
sugar beet by robust template matching. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2014, 108, 58–70. 
76. 
Prakash, R.M.; Saraswathy, G.P.; Ramalakshmi, G.; Mangaleswari, K.H.; Kaviya, T. Detection of leaf 
diseases and classification using digital image processing. In Proceedings of the 2017 International 
Conference on Innovations in Information, Embedded and Communication Systems (ICIIECS), 17–18 
March 2017; pp. 1–4. 
77. 
Sharif, M.; Khan, M.A.; Iqbal, Z.; Azam, M.F.; Lali, M.I.U.; Javed, M.Y. Detection and classification of citrus 
diseases in agriculture based on optimized weighted segmentation and feature selection. Comput. Electron. 
Agric. 2018, 150, 220–234. 
78. 
Zhang, S.; Wu, X.; You, Z.; Zhang, L. Leaf image based cucumber disease recognition using sparse 
representation classification. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2017, 134, 135–141. 
79. 
Zhang, S.; Wang, H.; Huang, W.; You, Z. Plant diseased leaf segmentation and recognition by fusion of 
superpixel, K-means and PHOG. Optik 2018, 157, 866–872. 
80. 
Zhang, H.; Sha, Z. Product Classification based on SVM and PHOG Descriptor. Int. J. Comput. Sci. Netw. 
Secur. 2013, 13, 9. 
81. 
Garcia-Lamont, F.; Cervantes, J.; López, A.; Rodriguez, L. Segmentation of images by color features: A 
survey. Neurocomputing 2018, 292, 1–27. 
82. 
McCarthy, C.L.; Hancock, N.H.; Raine, S.R. Applied machine vision of plants: A review with implications 
for field deployment in automated farming operations. Intell. Serv. Robot. 2010, 3, 209–217. 
83. 
Liu, H.; Lee, S.-H.; Chahl, J.S. An evaluation of the contribution of ultraviolet in fused multispectral images 
for invertebrate detection on green leaves. Precis. Agric. 2017, 18, 667–683. 
84. 
Radcliffe, J.; Cox, J.; Bulanon, D.M. Machine vision for orchard navigation. Comput. Ind. 2018, 98, 165–171. 
85. 
Warner, M.G.R.; Harries, G.O. An ultrasonic guidance system for driverless tractors. J. Agric. Eng. Res. 1972, 
17, 1–9. 
86. 
Yukumoto, O.; Matsuo, Y.; Noguchi, N. Robotization of agricultural vehicles (part 1)-Component 
technologies and navigation systems. Japan Agric. Res. Q. 2000, 34, 99–105. 
87. 
Bell, T. Automatic tractor guidance using carrier-phase differential GPS. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2000, 25, 
53–66. 
88. 
Han, S.; Zhang, Q.; Ni, B.; Reid, J. A guidance directrix approach to vision-based vehicle guidance systems. 
Comput. Electron. Agric. 2004, 43, 179–195. 
89. 
Wilson, J. Guidance of agricultural vehicles—a historical perspective. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2000, 25, 3–
9. 
90. 
Marchant, J.A. Tracking of row structure in three crops using image analysis. Comput. Electron. Agric. 1996, 
15, 161–179. 
91. 
Zhang, Q.; Reid, J.J.F.; Noguchi, N. Agricultural vehicle navigation using multiple guidance sensors. Proc. 
Int. Conf. F. Serv. Robot. 1999, 293-298. 
92. 
Bakker, T.; Wouters, H.; van Asselt, K.; Bontsema, J.; Tang, L.; Müller, J.; van Straten, G. A vision based row 
detection system for sugar beet. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2008, 60, 87–95. 
93. 
Jiang, G.-Q.; Zhao, C.-J.; Si, Y.-S. A machine vision based crop rows detection for agricultural robots. In 
Proceedings of the 2010 International Conference on Wavelet Analysis and Pattern Recognition, Qingdao, 
China, 11–14 July 2010; pp. 114–118. 
94. 
Jiang, G.; Zhao, C. A vision system based crop rows for agricultural mobile robot. In Proceedings of the 
2010 International Conference on Computer Application and System Modeling (ICCASM 2010), Taiyuan, 
China, 22–24 October 2010; pp. V11:142–V11:145. 
95. 
Torres-Sospedra, J.; Nebot, P. A New Approach to Visual-Based Sensory System for Navigation into 
Orange Groves. Sensors 2011, 11, 4086–4103. 

J. Imaging 2019, 5, 89 
33 of 33 
 
96. 
Sharifi, M.; Chen, X. A novel vision based row guidance approach for navigation of agricultural mobile 
robots in orchards. In Proceedings of the 2015 6th International Conference on Automation, Robotics and 
Applications (ICARA), Queenstown, New Zealand, 17–19 October 2015; pp. 251–255. 
97. 
Bakker, T.; van Asselt, K.; Bontsema, J.; Müller, J.; van Straten, G. Autonomous navigation using a robot 
platform in a sugar beet field. Biosyst. Eng. 2011, 109, 357–368. 
98. 
Xue, J.; Xu, L. Autonomous Agricultural Robot and its Row Guidance. In Proceedings of the 2010 
International Conference on Measuring Technology and Mechatronics Automation, Changsha City, China, 
13–14 March 2010; pp. 725–729. 
99. 
Scarfe, A.J.; Flemmer, R.C.; Bakker, H.H.; Flemmer, C.L. Development of an autonomous kiwifruit picking 
robot. In Proceedings of the 2009 4th International Conference on Autonomous Robots and Agents, 
Wellington, New Zealand, 10–12 February 2009; pp. 380–384. 
100. Hiremath, S.; van Evert, F.K.; Braak, C. ter; Stein, A.; van der Heijden, G. Image-based particle filtering for 
navigation in a semi-structured agricultural environment. Biosyst. Eng. 2014, 121, 85–95. 
101. Subramanian, V.; Burks, T.F.; Arroyo, A.A. Development of machine vision and laser radar based 
autonomous vehicle guidance systems for citrus grove navigation. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2006, 53, 130–
143. 
102. Wang, Q.; Zhang, Q.; Rovira-Más, F.; Tian, L. Stereovision-based lateral offset measurement for vehicle 
navigation in cultivated stubble fields. Biosyst. Eng. 2011, 109, 258–265. 
103. Xue, J.; Zhang, L.; Grift, T.E. Variable field-of-view machine vision based row guidance of an agricultural 
robot. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2012, 84, 85–91. 
104. Jiang, H.; Xiao, Y.; Zhang, Y.; Wang, X.; Tai, H. Curve path detection of unstructured roads for the outdoor 
robot navigation. Math. Comput. Model. 2013, 58, 536–544. 
105. Meng, Q.; Qiu, R.; He, J.; Zhang, M.; Ma, X.; Liu, G. Development of agricultural implement system based 
on machine vision and fuzzy control. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2015, 112, 128–138. 
106. Muscato, G.; Prestifilippo, M.; Abbate, N.; Rizzuto, I. A prototype of an orange picking robot: Past history, 
the new robot and experimental results. Ind. Robot-An Int. J. 2005, 32, 128–138. 
107. Ortiz, J.M.; Olivares, M. A Vision Based Navigation System for an Agricultural Field Robot. In Proceedings 
of the 2006 IEEE 3rd Latin American Robotics, Symposium, Santiago, Chile, 26–27 October 2006; pp. 106–
114. 
108. Søgaard, H.T.; Lund, I. Application Accuracy of a Machine Vision-controlled Robotic Micro-dosing System. 
Biosyst. Eng. 2007, 96, 315–322. 
109. He, B.; Liu, G.; Ji, Y.; Si, Y.; Gao, R. Auto Recognition of Navigation Path for Harvest Robot Based on 
Machine Vision. In IFIP Advances in Information and Communication Technology; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, 
Germany, 2011; pp. 138–148, ISBN 9783642183324. 
 
© 2019 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article is an open access 
article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution 
(CC BY) license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). 
 
