28 September 2026
Alma Mater Studiorum Università di Bologna
Archivio istituzionale della ricerca
Mengoli, D., Bortolotti, G., Piani, M., Manfrini, L. (2022). On-line real-time fruit size estimation using a
depth-camera sensor [10.1109/MetroAgriFor55389.2022.9964960].
Published Version:
On-line real-time fruit size estimation using a depth-camera sensor
Published:
DOI: http://doi.org/10.1109/MetroAgriFor55389.2022.9964960
Terms of use:
(Article begins on next page)
Some rights reserved. The terms and conditions for the reuse of this version of the manuscript are
specified in the publishing policy. For all terms of use and more information see the publisher's website.
Availability:
This version is available at: https://hdl.handle.net/11585/913120 since: 2023-01-31
This is the final peer-reviewed author’s accepted manuscript (postprint) of the following publication:
This item was downloaded from IRIS Università di Bologna (https://cris.unibo.it/).
When citing, please refer to the published version.

On-line real-time fruit size estimation using a
depth-camera sensor
Dario Mengoli†, Gianmarco Bortolotti∗, Mirko Piani∗, Luigi Manfrini∗
{dario.mengoli2, gianmarco.bortolotti, mirko.piani2, luigi.manfrini}@unibo.it
∗DISTAL department - University of Bologna - Bologna, Italy
†DEI department G. Marconi - University of Bologna - Bologna, Italy
Abstract—Fruit weight is one of the factors taken into
account when performing yield estimations together with the
trees density and orchard’s area. Thus, having the possibility
to collect data about the weight of a large number of fruits in
the orchard gives the possibility to increase the reliability of
the yield estimation. Over recent years, mathematical models
able to convert the fruit size into fruit weight were evaluated as
effective. Since then, manual data collection with calipers and
automated/continuous fruit gauges were tested to collect fruit
size data to perform yield predictions. Their main drawbacks
are respectively the need for human-labour, repetitiveness,
being time-requiring and the limited sample varying from 20 to
200 fruits per hectare. This research is trying to discover and
deepen the use of AI in agriculture for doing a step further:
sizing fruits after their detection with a YOLOv5 Neural
network algorithm. To reach this goal, a system which takes
as a input RGB-D depth-camera’s color images and 16 bit
depth maps was developed. After applying YOLOv5 detection,
two different methodologies (by mean of squared bounding
boxes and circular shapes) to extract from the depth map
the distance data needed to size the target object were tested.
Results from a preliminary data-set showed that the system
could be a potential solution to increase the sample dimension
and perform yield prediction. The main drawbacks of the
developed vision-system are related to the errors in sizing the
objects, which are ranging from an underestimation of about 9
mm to an overestimation of 24 mm. From the initial results was
possible to identify the squared-bbox-mediated sizing process as
a better pathway rather than the one performed with circular-
bboxes, since the RMSE is always smaller with values of 7-9 mm.
Index Terms—Yield prediction, fruit size estimation, online
data collection, RGB-D, CNN
I. INTRODUCTION AND PROBLEM DEFINITION
Harvest estimation is of paramount importance to allow
timely intervention during the growth season, thus increasing
quality and quantity of the final harvest. Also, harvest
labour, storage and transport logistics need to be prepared in
advance to handle all required operations in the usually short
harvesting time-span. The crop load estimation is particularly
important for fruit crops because plant crop load generally
affect ending fruit size and quality [1] and it is particularly
important for those fruit crops presenting a short fruit ripening
window and storage timings [2]. A reliable estimation may
not only be used for marketing adjustments and side-channel
acquisitions, but also help making an effective planning
of the resources and thus creating efficiency both in terms
of costs and resource usage [3]. The current practice yield
estimation is made by manually counting and measuring
fruits on sample parcels, then multiplying an average result
by the total cultivated area. Manual counting is however a
time-consuming task that require labour force that is therefore
drained from actual management growth duties. Furthermore,
repetitive, and long- lasting tasks are more prone to errors
during execution. Lately, digital fruit “sizer” exploiting IoT
configuration and wireless sensors networks are available, but
they still rely on a parcel-based estimation due to their fixed
position [4] [5].
Vision-based fruit counting has been investigated on different
orchards, by using RGB cameras mounted on ground vehicles
[6]. Fruit counting nowadays is typically performed by using
Convolutional Neural-Networks (CNNs) approaches [7], by
exploiting object detection with state-of-the art algorithms
such as YOLOv5 [8]. Recently, the availability of low-cost
depth camera sensors has opened new interesting scenarios
both for counting and measuring single fruits simultaneously.
Our solution aims to exploit the depth/distance information
coming from the Intel Realsense D435i depth camera,
together with a YOLOv5 fruit detection algorithm, to not
only enable fruit counting but also allowing size estimation
of the single fruits/objects. Preliminary results achieved are
interesting also if further improvements are needed to obtain
effective results.
The paper unfolds as follows, in Section II describes in
details the proposed solution, Section III reports the obtained
results, and, finally, Section IV discusses what was achieved
with related drawbacks and strength.
II. MATERIALS AND METHODS
The trial consisted in evaluating an adaptive computer-
vision algorithm for sizing apple fruits in field and in real
time. The utilized camera was an Intel RealSense D435i
consumer-grade depth camera (RGB-D). The choice of this
camera was made considering its specifications and because
of preliminary field test results in which it performed better
than other intel RealSense cameras (i.e., D455 and L515).
To summarise the test, the last two cameras were unable to
collect as much depth point as the D435i. The data collection
of the presented study consisted in recording RGB-D videos
(containing color and depth information) of a tree-row in

an apple orchard in which a variable number of apples was
tagged and measured for their maximum equatorial diameter
by a digital caliper. Furthermore, tennis-balls were included
in the scene as dimension reference to better evaluate the
sizing capacity of the system (Fig.1). The apple orchard in
which data collection was done, presented a robot-friendly
architecture [9] that favors fruit visibility.
The RGB-D videos were recorded keeping the camera parallel
to the orchard tree-row and at a fixed distance of 1 m approx.
The recordings were performed at five different timings
during the season (on 17/06, 07/07, 01/08, 30/08 and 12/10)
so to evaluate the system on different fruit size and coloration.
The camera was set at the best resolution suggested by the
documentation, for both the streams: 1920x1080 pixels for
RGB and 848x480 for depth; this to improve both fruit
detection and depth/fruit size estimation. Recording frame
rate was set at 30 frame per second (FPS), the maximum for
the tested camera.
To identify fruits in the scene a YOLOv5 CNN algorithm
was utilized. Considering both accuracy performances as
well as computational needs the YOLOv5 “l” algorithm
was chosen for this experiment. The model was trained on
a data-set constituted of 123 apple trees images containing
5000 highly visible fruits (approx.) representing different
fruits dimension and coloration. The data-set was split in
train, validation, and test -set with a proportion of 70-20-
10% respectively per each image set. Image augmentations
was applied to the train-set, augmenting its image number
by around 6 times; this creating images altered in color
proprieties, rotation, applying blur etc. The model training
was performed, for 500 epochs, on a dedicated Workstation
equipped with 2 x Nvidia RTX2080super. The trained model
showed an F1 score of 0.85 on the test set. Similarly, a model
dedicated to tennis balls detection was trained obtaining an
F1 score = 0.93. The trained YOLOv5 CNN algorithms were
then applied on the RGB image to detect fruits (and tennis
balls).
Following, for each detected fruit, a customized circle de-
tection algorithm, based on OpenCV function [10] was applied
to obtain the best fitting-to-the-detected-fruit circle (Fig.1:
Detected circle). The customized circle detection algorithm
utilized is based on OpenCV ”HoughCircles” function, which
is applied to the grey-scale transformed RGB image and
returns the center (pixel coordinates) and the radius (in pixels)
of the detected circle.
To obtain the circle dimension in millimeters, two methodolo-
gies exploiting depth (z-dimension) information coming from
the RGB-D camera were utilized. For both of them, before ini-
tialising fruit detection and sizing, the depth-map was resized
and aligned to the color image. The first fruit sizing method
(squared-bbox; Fig.1: Squared-bbox) consists in extracting the
mean fruit distance from the camera, calculating it as the
mean of all valid (i.e., non-zero) depth points enclosed in a
square-shaped Region Of Interest (ROI), placed in the center
of the bbox, and obtained by halving the bbox dimensions of
the detected fruit. Then, the real scene dimension (Scenedim
- mm2) fitting in the camera frame at the extracted mean
fruit distance (mObjdist - mm), was computed exploiting
trigonometric relations between cameras intrinsic parameters
(Field of View - FoV) and distance from the fruit, as reported
in Eq.1.
Scenedim = 2 ∗(mObjdist ∗Tan(FoV/2))
(1)
The real scene dimension was then divided by the RGB image
resolution and the square root of that is considered as the real
object (fruit) resolution (Objres) in mm/pixel.
To what concerns the second method (circle-bbox; Fig.1:
Circle-bbox), the mean fruit distance is obtained as presented
previously, but instead of using the square-shaped ROI, depth
information are extracted from the projection of the area got
by halving the radius of the circle returned by the OpenCv’s
”HoughCircle” algorithm. This area is placed in the center
of the detected circle. In this second method the real object
resolution was computed exploiting fx, fy parameters, given
by the camera intrinsic, those describe the focal length of the
image as a multiple of pixel width and height respectively.
The actual fruit diameter (Fsize) was then estimated, for
both the methods, multiplying the detected-circle diameter in
pixels (dpx), by the object resolution (Objres - mm/pixel),
obtained in each methods, as reported in Eq. 2.
Fsize = Fdpx ∗Objres
(2)
The same process was applied also to the tennis-balls
included in the images so to obtain a clearer interpretation
of the system performances since these objects present a size
variability lower than 1 mm. The vision-system estimated
diameter was then compared with the manually measured
one and absolute (RMSE) and relative (RMSE %) root-mean-
squared-error were computed for both apples and tennis-balls.
III. RESULTS
Results here presented refer to a preliminary data-set made
up of 156 apple fruits and 73 tennis balls, taken by using
the Unmanned Ground Vehicle described in [11] inside the
experimental planar apple orchard in Cadriano described also
in [12] . The entire data-set collected is still under evaluation
due to the time needed for matching YOLOv5 detected apple
with manually tagged ones. From these initial data, it appears
that the developed detection and sizing processes (previously
referred to as method 1 and method 2) resulted in being
promising at determining fruits and tennis balls dimension.
Concerning the obtained results (Fig. 2), it came into view
that applying a squared-bbox (method 1) the rightness of
the estimated object size increases since the RMSE for both
apples (7.2 mm) and tennis balls (7.9 mm ) is lower than
the one obtained by running the circular- bbox method (i.e.,
8.6 mm and 9.4 mm, respectively for apples and tennis-
balls). Both methods seem to perform better in estimating fruit

Fig. 1: In the first line, the image of the scene and cropped RGB and depth after CNN object detection application. In the
second line the circle detection and sizing process, In the last line, examples of correct circle detection, oversized circle
detection, erroneous circle detection due to excessive light: Squared- and Circle- bbox methods are affected differently in
depth estimation.
size compared to tennis balls size; this is somehow counter-
intuitive considering the reduced size variability and the more
regular shape of tennis balls. If considering the RMSE %
values, the system seems to perform equally on both types
of objects (apple, tennis ball) presenting values of 12% and
14% respectively for method 1 (squared-bbox) and 2 (Circular
bbox).
Concerning the field performances of the YOLOv5 algorithm,
no results can be presented since not all the object in each
scene was manually label to test this, but of the 156 actually
tagged fruits only one was not detected, while ll tennis balls
were detected. Regarding the efficacy of the customized circle
detection algorithm, it was able to identify “best-fitting circles”
on 141 apples out of the whole 155 apples (i.e., 90%); for
tennis balls, in each of the 73 tennis balls, the algorithm was
able to extract a “best-fitting circle” on which to estimate size.

Fig. 2: The bar-plot is showing the RMSE and RMSE% for
both squared-bbox and circle-bbox methods utilized for sizing
the apples, on both tennis-balls and apple data-sets.
Regarding the real time application of the system, the whole
process from loads the images to save the results presented a
mean processing time of 0.55s (0.34 s for the YOLOv5 model
application; 0.21 s for the fruit size estimation with both the
methods) per image, on a laptop equipped with a Intel i7-
9750H CPU and 16 GB of RAM.
IV. DISCUSSION
The described trial allowed to highlight the importance of
object detection step in the process since errors shown to be
sometimes related to a wrong-sized object detection bbox, in
which the circle detection algorithm did not work properly
(or at all - missing detection). Considering regular shape
object like tennis balls, it can be assumed that, the system
tend to generally oversize the dimension estimation, since the
smallest RMSE and mean error( 2.4 mm - +1.3mm) were
found, substituting the detected-circle diameter ,in pixel, with
the minimum bbox dimension (i.e. the smallest between x
and y). Supporting that, is the fact that, for tennis balls, all
the mean errors computed in respect of the actual tennis ball
dimension are greater than 0. For fruits, the non-regular shape
led to a negative mean error when substituting minimum
bbox dimension to detected circle diameter (i.e., -1.3 mm;
RMSE = 4.7mm -the smallest-); so for fruits the system
still tends to generally overestimate size, but with a higher
variability related to single case. The maximum error in
fruit size estimation were -9.2 mm and - 10.4 mm in under
estimating, while +24.4 mm and +26.9 mm in over estimating,
respectively for method 1 and 2 in both the cases. What
just exposed suggests that ”HoughCircle” algorithm tend to
detect oversized circles, so it was tried to tried to reduce
the size of the bounding box (after the detectition), but this
resulted in a negligible reduction of the sizing error. So,
results seem to indicate that over-sizing is mainly related
to the customized ”HoughCircle” algorithm that sometimes
detect oversized wrong circles (Fig. 1: Over-size) affecting
the overall dimension estimation.
Additionally, some technological issues related to the RGB-D
camera sensors were found: the optical sensor saturates with
levels of incident radiation, making an object so bright that the
CNN is not able to detect it; while, the infrared sensor used
to detect the distance data is affected as well by high levels
of radiation because of the infrared waveband which alters
the depth estimation [13]. High illuminance can also affect
circle detection algorithm inducing important errors (Fig. 1:
Circle and Depth errors). For this reasons, we have identified
a workflow which consists in acquiring the images needed
for the detection and sizing process, during the morning or
late afternoon when the direct light interception and high
light intensity are not an issue. Obviously, even acting on the
orchard environment by mean of intensive shading helps in
reducing those technological problems. Knowing those issues
is useful to improve the efficiency of the vision - system
by acting at the right time or by calibrating the infrared/
RGB sensor’s sensibility. An adding advice would be to take
recordings during night time, with artificial lighting, this also
to standardize image/video collection conditions, favouring
the overall system performances.
According to results, the squared-bbox method performed
always better than the circular-bbox based one (-2% of RMSE
both for apples and tennis-balls) and this is mainly related to
the different object resolution computed by the two methods.
Method 2 resulted more erroneous due to the not precise
circle detection: if the circle detected was not placed in the
center of the object to be sized, then the distance estimation
of the object itself resulted less correct.
Despite interesting results, the system is currently not in
line with suitable error range for fruit size estimation (i.e.
1-2mm), but large scale data collection together with system
improvements could lead to average sizing error falling in
1-2mm range.
Regarding the real-time application of the system, in the
results are presented computational time needs for CPU
based processing, and those report a rate of 2 image analyzed
per second. The system is currently under improvement
so to be run on high-power processing units, dedicated to
image analysis (i.e., GPU/TPU), known to highly reduce
the processing time. Preliminary results obtained from on a
Nvidia RTX-A2000 shown a mean processing time of 20 ms

per frame, resulting in a frame rate of application > 30 FPS
(i.e., 50 FPS, approx) and therefore showing the possibility to
obtain online real-time sizing information of detected object.
V. CONCLUSIONS
In this paper we presented a promising vision-system
for detecting and sizing apple fruits directly in field and in
real-time with the potentiality to improve yield prediction
and safeguard fruit growers during the marketing procedures.
The system performed mainly by overestimating the actual
object size both with squared-bbox and circular-bbox method
utilized, with an RMSE of 7.9 mm and 8.6 mm for apples
dimension, respectively.
Introducing the tennis balls in the evaluation process allowed
to understand that the fruit size variability is a parameter
which is increasing the difficulties in getting the correct
object dimension, considering the prospective with which
the camera frame the fruit. The system currently present an
excessive sizing error for the application in field, but further
improvements will be investigated thanks to the results of this
trial. We are confident that this system could support growers
and fruit chain in getting large scale information regarding
fruit size attribute.
REFERENCES
[1] S. Serra, R. Leisso, L. Giordani, L. Kalcsits, and S. Musacchi,
“Crop load influences fruit quality, nutritional balance, and return
bloom in ‘honeycrisp’ apple,” HortScience, vol. 51, no. 3, p. 236 –
244, 2016, cited by: 48. [Online]. Available: https://www.scopus.com/
inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84963997706&doi=10.21273%2fhortsci.
51.3.236&partnerID=40&md5=85645e9be4837304e01a94698bd603b5
[2] W. Qureshi, A. Payne, K. Walsh, R. Linker, O. Cohen, and M. Dailey,
“Machine vision for counting fruit on mango tree canopies,” Precision
Agriculture, vol. 18, no. 2, pp. 224–244, 2017.
[3] G. Moreda, J. Ortiz-Ca˜navate, F. Garc´ıa-Ramos, and M. Ruiz-Altisent,
“Non-destructive technologies for fruit and vegetable size determination
– a review,” Journal of Food Engineering, vol. 92, no. 2, pp.
119–136, 2009. [Online]. Available: https://www.sciencedirect.com/
science/article/pii/S0260877408005451
[4] B. Morandi, L. Manfrini, M. Zibordi, M. Noferini, G. Fiori, and
L. C. Grappadelli, “A low-cost device for accurate and continuous
measurements of fruit diameter,” HortScience, vol. 42, no. 6, p. 1380 –
1382, 2007, cited by: 61. [Online]. Available: https://www.scopus.com/
inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-34648816416&doi=10.21273%2fhortsci.
42.6.1380&partnerID=40&md5=35e328e399f74e6b9cabd15888947203
[5] L.
M.
Peppi,
M.
Zauli,
L.
Manfrini,
P.
A.
Traverso,
L.
Corelli
Grappadelli,
and
L.
D.
Marchi,
“A
low-cost
and
high-accuracy non-invasive system for the monitoring of fruit growth,”
2020, Conference paper, p. 18 – 23, cited by: 0. [Online]. Available:
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85099011516&
doi=10.1109%2fMetroAgriFor50201.2020.9277571&partnerID=40&
md5=a6186f79e638c65c762059927a6aab19
[6] A. Syal, D. Garg, and S. Sharma, “A survey of computer vision
methods for counting fruits and yield prediction,” International Journal
of Computer Science Engineering, vol. 2, no. 6, pp. 346–350, 2013.
[7] J. Gen´e-Mola, R. Sanz, J. Rosell-Polo, A. Escol`a, and E. Gre-
gorio
Lopez,
“Pfuji-size
dataset:
A
collection
of
images
and
photogrammetry-derived 3d point clouds with ground truth annotations
for fuji apple detection and size estimation in field conditions,” Data in
Brief, vol. 39, p. 107629, 11 2021.
[8] G. Jocher, A. Stoken, A. Chaurasia, J. Borovec, NanoCode012, TaoXie,
Y. Kwon, K. Michael, L. Changyu, J. Fang, A. V, Laughing, tkianai,
yxNONG, P. Skalski, A. Hogan, J. Nadar, imyhxy, L. Mammana,
AlexWang1900, C. Fati, D. Montes, J. Hajek, L. Diaconu, M. T. Minh,
Marc, albinxavi, fatih, oleg, and wanghaoyang0106, “ultralytics/yolov5:
v6.0 - YOLOv5n ’Nano’ models, Roboflow integration, TensorFlow
export, OpenCV DNN support,” Oct. 2021. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.5563715
[9] D. Tustin, B. van Hooijdonk, and K. Breen, “The planar cordon
– new planting systems concepts to improve light utilisation and
physiological function to increase apple orchard yield potential,”
Acta
Horticulturae,
vol.
1228,
p.
1
–
11,
2018,
cited
by:
12.
[Online].
Available:
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?
eid=2-s2.0-85059975078&doi=10.17660%2fActaHortic.2018.1228.1&
partnerID=40&md5=a5d9dfcdb207bb6ea7295aa709bd3295
[10] G. Bradski, “The opencv library.” Dr. Dobb’s Journal: Software Tools
for the Professional Programmer, vol. 25, no. 11, pp. 120–123, 2000.
[11] D. Mengoli, R. Tazzari, and L. Marconi, “Autonomous robotic platform
for precision orchard management: Architecture and software perspec-
tive,” in 2020 IEEE International Workshop on Metrology for Agriculture
and Forestry (MetroAgriFor), 2020, pp. 303–308.
[12] G. Bortolotti, K. Bresilla, M. Piani, L. C. Grappadelli, and L. Manfrini,
“2d tree crops training system improve computer vision application in
field: a case study,” in 2021 IEEE International Workshop on Metrology
for Agriculture and Forestry (MetroAgriFor), 2021, pp. 120–124.
[13] J. Gen´e-Mola, J. Llorens, J. R. Rosell-Polo, E. Gregorio, J. Arn´o,
F. Solanelles, J. A. Mart´ınez-Casasnovas, and A. Escol`a, “Assessing the
performance of rgb-d sensors for 3d fruit crop canopy characterization
under different operating and lighting conditions,” Sensors, vol. 20,
no. 24, p. 7072, 2020.
