FruitNeRF: A Unified Neural Radiance Field based
Fruit Counting Framework
Lukas Meyer1, Andreas Gilson2,3, Ute Schmid3 and Marc Stamminger1
Abstract— We introduce FruitNeRF, a unified novel fruit
counting framework that leverages state-of-the-art view synthesis
methods to count any fruit type directly in 3D. Our framework
takes an unordered set of posed images captured by a monocular
camera and segments fruit in each image. To make our system
independent of the fruit type, we employ a foundation model
that generates binary segmentation masks for any fruit. Utilizing
both modalities, RGB and semantic, we train a semantic neural
radiance field. Through uniform volume sampling of the implicit
Fruit Field, we obtain fruit-only point clouds. By applying
cascaded clustering on the extracted point cloud, our approach
achieves precise fruit count. The use of neural radiance fields
provides significant advantages over conventional methods such
as object tracking or optical flow, as the counting itself is lifted
into 3D. Our method prevents double counting fruit and avoids
counting irrelevant fruit. We evaluate our methodology using
both real-world and synthetic datasets. The real-world dataset
consists of three apple trees with manually counted ground
truths, a benchmark apple dataset with one row and ground
truth fruit location, while the synthetic dataset comprises various
fruit types including apple, plum, lemon, pear, peach, and mango.
Additionally, we assess the performance of fruit counting using
the foundation model compared to a U-Net.
I. Introduction
Due to a steadily growing global population [1], a declining
workforce in several industrialized nations, and the advance-
ment of climate change [2], the field of Precision Agriculture
(PA) has seen a significant increase in both, application and
research, in recent years [3].
In PA, fruit counting is crucial for obtaining precise yield
estimates to optimize harvest, and post-harvest management
[4]. However, fruit counting remains a challenging task due
to the need for accurate detection and tracking of fruits across
multiple images [5] or in combination with 3D point clouds
[6], regardless of visibility issues, partial occlusion, or varying
lighting conditions. In this context, it is crucial to prevent
double counting and ensure that irrelevant fruit, such as fallen
fruit or background fruit, are not erroneously included in the
count. Additionally, it is challenging to use the same counting
method across different fruit types and environments.
In our work, we propose FruitNeRF, a novel unified fruit
counting framework based on Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF)
[7]. The chosen architecture is inherently agnostic to the type
of fruit and thus, provides the technical foundation for a
generalized fruit counting approach.
The authors from 1 are with Visual Computing Erlangen (VCE), Friedrich-
Alexander-Universit¨at Erlangen-N¨urnberg-F¨urth, Germany, 2 is with the
Fraunhofer Institute for Integrated Circuits (IIS) - EZRT, F¨urth, Germany
and 3 are with Cognitive Systems, University of Bamberg, Germany
E-Mail:
[lukas.meyer, marc.stamminger]@fau.de,
andreas.gilson.fraunhofer.iis.de,
ute.schmid@uni-bamberg.de
Fig. 1: Rendering of an apple tree from our real-world dataset
generated with FruitNeRF. On the right: a zoomed-in region with
corresponding semantic logits (top) and the appearance rendering
(bottom).
In the first phase, semantic image masks are calculated
specific to the type of fruit under consideration. Combining
the foundation models DINO [8] and Segment Anything
(SAM) [9], fruit masks for all posed images are generated. In
comparison, we examine a specialized neural network, U-Net
[10], that was trained specifically on apples. The subsequent
step of our framework involves optimizing a semantic neural
radiance field denoted as FruitNeRF, utilizing both RGB and
semantic masks to encode the spatial information of fruits
within a neural radiance field. In the third stage, we uniformly
sample the density and semantic fields (rendered in Fig. 1) of
the NeRF to acquire a point cloud that exclusively captures
3D points attributed to fruits. In the last stage, the fruit point
cloud is clustered, resulting in a precise fruit count.
We evaluate our framework with both synthetic and real-
world data and demonstrate that FruitNeRF generalizes well
across different fruit types. The main contributions of our
work are:
• We propose a novel fruit counting method from un-
ordered images utilizing semantic NeRFs.
• We release a fruit dataset comprising synthetic data from
various fruit trees and a real-world dataset specifically
focused on apple trees1.
• The code of FruitNeRF2 has been made open-source.
1Project website: https://meyerls.github.io/fruit_nerf
2FruitNeRF code: https://github.com/meyerls/FruitNeRF
arXiv:2408.06190v2  [cs.CV]  26 Sep 2024

Fig. 2: Pipeline of our proposed fruit counting method - FruitNeRF. Data Preparation (Sec. III-A) uses structure from motion (SfM) [20]
to recover both intrinsic and extrinsic camera parameters. We then extract semantic masks for arbitrary fruit types (Sec. III-B) using the
foundation model SAM [9] and a self-trained U-Net [10] for apples only. The posed RGB and semantic images are used to train a semantic
neural radiance field. FruitNeRF (Sec. III-C) encodes the appearance of the scene including the semantic information. By sampling the
appearance and Fruit Field (Sec. III-D) uniformly, a dense point cloud is obtained. This paves the way for selecting only the 3D fruit
points and clustering them to achieve a precise fruit count (Sec. III-E).
II. Related Work
Recent advances in computer vision and hardware have
made monitoring fruits a feasible task in horticulture. A strong
focus in this connection is laid on sweet peppers [11], [12],
strawberries [13], [14], tomatoes [12], and apples [5], [15],
[16], [17]. Therefore, we present a short overview of fruit
counting methods. In literature, fruit counting pipelines are
commonly split into two distinct tasks: fruit detection, and
fruit tracking and counting.
While the detection stage was dominated by hand-crafted
features (e.g., color-based, shaped-based, etc.) [4] in the past,
with the rise of deep learning this task has been successfully
replaced by a vast variety of segmentation or detection
network architectures (e.g., VCC, ResNet, YOLO) [4].
Fruit tracking and counting on the other hand are still
challenging. The main causes of errors are double counting
and counting fruit outside the region of interest (e.g., fallen
fruit or fruit from trees in back rows). Especially, double
counting arises from various sources, such as observing the
same fruit in two consecutive images or counting fruit from
both sides. To address this issue, researchers have proposed
the following strategies [4]: counting fruits only on a per
image level [18], tracking fruits across successive frames [5],
[15], leveraging sparse point cloud data to count the fruit
location in space [17], [6], [16] or projecting 2D instance
segmentation onto 3D space [19].
The work from Liu et al. [5] is the first to cover the
entire automatic fruit counting pipeline applied to an image
sequence. In the detection phase, they employ a network
architecture, which segments each image into fruit and non-
fruit pixels. To assign masks across multiple consecutive
frames, they use a Kalman Filter-corrected optical flow tracker.
Additionally, they localize fruit locations in 3D by tracking
image features across frames to rectify counting errors such
as double counting or detecting background and ground fruit.
H¨ani et al. [16] present a modular end-to-end counting sys-
tem in apple orchards, which connects multiple components
from previous work regarding fruit detection [17], counting
[17] and tracking [6]. In their approach, fruit detection and
counting are merged by determining the fruit number on a
per-image level. They compute a semantic point cloud by
projecting the point cloud back to all camera frames and
computing the intersection with the segmentation mask to
identify 3D points belonging to apples [6]. The point clouds
are afterward clustered and projected clusterwise to the image
plane to obtain the number of apples in a cluster [17].
Gen´e-Mola et al. [19] compute the instance segmentation
mask for all images using a convolutional neural network.
To obtain a semantic point cloud they use Structure from
Motion (SfM) [20] with masked images and to cluster the
corresponding point cloud. By back-projecting the clusters
into multiple images they assign each cluster an instance ID.
However, the discussed approaches [5], [16], and [19] are
all combining SfM and 2D segmentation masks to compute
the semantic point cloud and the position of the apples in
space. In comparison with FruitNeRF, we first perform a
semantic reconstruction and then perform the fruit counting
in 3D resulting in improved reliability.
III. Proposed Approach
In this chapter, we introduce the methodology and pipeline
for FruitNeRF which is depicted in Fig. 2.
A. Data Preparation
The initial step for our pipeline is data preparation. Both
our synthetic and real-world datasets consist of sets of RGB
images. A detailed description of the generated and recorded
data is provided in section IV-A.
For the unordered image data, camera poses for all
corresponding images and camera intrinsic parameters are
recovered, which are both obtained by SfM [20].

B. Fruit Segmentation
For fruit segmentation, two different methods are consid-
ered. The first is a fruit-agnostic foundation model, which
offers a generalized solution applicable to all types of fruits.
We compare this approach to a supervised neural network
that has been fine-tuned specifically for apple segmentation.
1) Unified Fruit Model: For the unified fruit segmentation
model we used Grounded-SAM [21]. It combines the open-set
object detector Grounding DINO [22] and the open-world
segmentation model SAM [23]. Grounding DINO generates
precise bounding boxes for every image by leveraging textual
information as an input condition. The computed bounding
boxes are then used by SAM as a box prompt to predict
accurate segmentation masks. The advantage of this approach
is that it works without fine-tuning or labeling new data.
2) Dedicated Fruit Model: In direct comparison, a U-Net
[10] was trained on supervised data for apple segmentation.
Utilizing our new data combined with the Fuji-SfM dataset
[30], an apple dataset was crafted and then used for training.
More information on the dataset can be found in Sec. IV-A.2
and training details are listed in Sec. IV-B.1.
C. FruitNeRF
FruitNeRF is the core part of the pipeline. Classic 3D
representations such as point clouds, voxels, and SDFs are
limited in their ability to represent fine details in complex
typologies efficiently. Thus, NeRF, with its implicit volumetric
representation, can store multi-view consistent multi-modal
scenes such as appearance and semantic data. The network
structure of FruitNeRF is depicted in Fig. 6.
1) Volumetric Rendering: NeRF [7] optimizes a neural
radiance field by using a set of posed images and a camera
model. The scene itself is implicitly represented by a multi-
layer perceptron (MLP). The network learns how to map a
spatial coordinate point x ∈R3 and a view direction d ∈S2 to
a volume density 𝜎and an RGB radiance c = (𝑟, 𝑔, 𝑏). The
density Field F𝜎: x →𝜎is a function of the 3D position
and the appearance field Fc : (x, d) →c is a function of the
3D position x and view direction d.
The color c of a pixel is computed by querying the MLP
at sample points along a camera ray r(𝑡) = o + 𝑡d. The ray
originates in the camera o and its direction is determined by
the pixel position. The estimated color ˆC(r) for one pixel
is then computed by accumulating density and color values
along 𝐾sampled points over the ray r using volumetric
rendering:
ˆC(r) =
𝐾
∑︁
𝑘=1
ˆ𝑇(𝑡𝑘)𝛼(𝜎(𝑡𝑘)𝛿𝑘)c(𝑡𝑘),
where
ˆ𝑇(𝑡𝑘) = exp
 
−
𝑘−1
∑︁
𝑎=1
𝜎(𝑡𝑎)𝛿𝑎
!
.
(1)
𝛿𝑘= 𝑡𝑘+1 −𝑡𝑘is defined as distance between two adjacent
sampled points and 𝛼(𝑥) = 1 −exp(−𝑥) as the transmittance
probability. An RGB rendering of a fruit tree can be seen on
the left side of Fig. 3a.
2) Semantic Rendering: The idea of FruitNeRF is to
encode semantic information about the fruit in 3D. We extend
NeRF, similar to the work of Zhi et al. [24], by learning
to map a 3D point not only to density and color but also
to extend it to semantics. Therefore, an additional MLP is
defined, which can be seen as a semantic field F𝑠: x →𝑠that
approximates the semantic logits as a function of only the 3D
position x. To approximate the estimated semantic logit ˆS(r)
for a pixel, we accumulate the density and semantics along
𝐾points sampled over the ray r using numerical quadrature:
ˆS(r) =
𝐾
∑︁
𝑘=1
ˆ𝑇(𝑡𝑘)𝛼(𝜎(𝑡𝑘)𝛿𝑘)s(𝑡𝑘).
(2)
A semantic rendering of a fruit tree can be seen on the left
side of Fig. 3a.
D. Point Cloud Export
FruitNeRF incorporates the spatial information of fruits
within its density field. To effectively utilize this, the Fruit-
NeRF volumes are sampled to process the resulting point
cloud further. The FruitNeRF model comprises the Density,
Appearance, and Fruit Fields as depicted in Fig. 6. The Den-
sity Field encodes the density of a point in space, independent
of whether it pertains to the trunk, foliage, ground, or fruit.
The Appearance Field encodes the corresponding color value,
while the Fruit Field contains semantic information regarding
the presence of a fruit. Sampling solely from the Fruit Field
would result in a scattered point cloud as during training
the semantic information updates along ray and smears the
information also in empty space. To address this, we link the
semantic points with the density and allow only points with
a certain density to be included in the resulting point cloud.
Fig. 3b shows the extracted point cloud from the Density
and Appearance Field (left) and the fruit point cloud (right).
(a) FruitNeRF rendering
(b) Extracted point clouds
Fig. 3: Visualization of data points along the pipeline. In (a) RGB
and semantic rendering are depicted. (b) shows the extracted tree
point cloud from the density and the Appearance field (left) and the
fruit point cloud, a combination of the Density and the Fruit Field
(right).

Afterward, the point cloud is manually cropped to include
only the tree of interest, as we aim to obtain a per-tree fruit
count evaluation.
E. Fruit Counting
To enumerate individual fruits within the extracted fruit
point cloud, we have developed a cascaded two-stage clus-
tering methodology. The initial stage undertakes coarse
clustering, while the subsequent stage refines this clustering
process to detect invalid and multiple fruit.
Before clustering, we pre-process the point cloud by re-
moving noise. This involves filtering points within a specified
radius if they lack a minimum number of neighboring points.
In the first stage of clustering, we utilize density-based
spatial clustering (DBSCAN) [25]. This method offers the
advantage of not requiring prior knowledge of the number of
clusters present. Instead, it identifies clusters based on the
density of closely packed points, defining clusters as regions
with a high concentration of data points. Consequently, we
identify three types of clusters: single, multi, and tiny. The
clusters are visualized in Fig. 2. Single-fruit clusters are
directly assigned to the count through their clear identification
by a similar volume to the template fruit. Multi-fruit clusters
contain more than one fruit in a packed vicinity and are
identified through oversized volume. Tiny fruit clusters are
small in volume and may represent noise from erroneous
segmentation or fruits captured from only a sparse set of
viewpoints.
Before proceeding to the second clustering stage, we
examine the set of tiny fruit clusters. If the distance between
neighboring cluster centers is smaller than the average radius
of a fruit, these clusters likely represent the same fruit, and
thus, are merged. For the remaining tiny fruit clusters, we
assess if their volume is similar to the expected volume of a
target fruit. If not, we discard the cluster.
The second clustering stage aims to determine the quantity
of the multi-fruit clusters. E.g., specific for apples, a reason-
able upper bound for the number of apples within a cluster is
𝑁= 6 [17]. A multi-fruit cluster is identified if the volume of
a cluster exceeds the size of our template fruit. In the second
stage, we employ agglomeration clustering [26], a hierarchical
clustering method. The point cloud undergoes clustering
multiple times, with a predefined cluster size ranging from 1
to 𝑁. For each clustering result, we compute the cluster center
and overlay a template point cloud of the fruit. Subsequently,
we compute the maximum mismatch between two point sets
with the Hausdorff distance [27] through
𝑑𝐻𝐷(X, Y) = sup
(
sup
𝑥∈X
inf
𝑦∈Y 𝑑(𝑥, 𝑦), sup
𝑦∈Y
inf
𝑥∈X 𝑑(𝑥, 𝑦)
)
. (3)
It computes the distance between the point cloud of
the template fruit, X, and the cluster point cloud hull,
Y. We then determine the minimal distance 𝑑𝑚𝑖𝑛
=
min(𝑑1
𝐻𝐷, . . . , 𝑑𝑁−1
𝐻𝐷, 𝑑𝑁
𝐻𝐷) and choose the corresponding
cluster size. The steps are visualized in Fig. 4.
Fig. 4: Second clustering stage: For multi-fruit cluster with three
fruits, we simultaneously compute several cluster sizes of the fruit
point cloud (greenish dots). Each computed cluster center 𝑐(magenta
dots) serves as the center point for our template fruit (smaller black
dots). The minimum Hausdorff distance between the template point
cloud and the fruit point cloud determines the number of clusters.
IV. Experiments and Results
A. Dataset
For our experiments, we generated a series of synthetic
scenes featuring fruit trees, complemented by recordings of
three real-world apple trees from an orchard setting. The data
has been made publicly available, and visualizations can be
accessed on the project website.
1) Synthetic Blender Dataset: The synthetic dataset was
generated using Blender, with various fruit tree models, such
as apple, plum, lemon, pear, peach, and mango trees, sourced
from XFrog [28]. Each tree was rendered individually using
the BlenderNeRF plugin [29]. This plugin facilitated the
placement of a virtual camera on a hemisphere, allowing us
to extract both the camera’s extrinsic and intrinsic parameters
for randomly sampled perspectives directed toward the tree.
For the virtual camera, we opted for a focal length of 35 mm
and set the image size to 1024 px × 1024 px. In addition to
(a) Synthetic dataset - apple, pear, plum, mango, lemon, peach
(b) Real-world dataset (rendered) - Tree 03, 02, 01
Fig. 5: Visualization of the synthetic data rendered with Blender (a)
and the three apple trees of our real-world dataset (b).

rendering the photometric images, we also generated semantic
masks for each fruit tree. Furthermore, we extracted masks
from Grounded-SAM for every image. For every fruit tree, a
total number of 300 images were rendered. A visualization
of all fruit trees is depicted in Fig. 5a.
2) Real World Dataset: Recordings for the real-world
dataset were conducted at the Hiltpoltstein Fruit Information
Center in Bavaria, Germany. We selected three apple trees
of the Resista variety, and their pruning closely resembles
traditional fruit-growing methods. A visualization of the apple
trees is shown in Fig. 5b.
The dataset was captured using a Nikon D7100 DSLR
camera with a lens featuring a focal length of 35 mm. The
captured images have a resolution of 4000 px × 6000 px.
We captured approximately 350 images per tree from a
consistent distance of 3 meters, covering multiple heights
on both sides of the tree. For recovering the poses of the
images, we utilized COLMAP [20]. All apples on each tree
were manually counted to obtain a per-tree ground truth. The
apple count data is summarized in Figure 8. For the real-
world dataset, we also provide the predicted masks from both
Grounded-SAM and U-Net.
B. Implementation Details
1) Fruit Segmentation: To generate fruit-specific segmen-
tation masks, we employed Grounded-SAM [21] with pre-
trained weights. In our pursuit of optimal mask output,
we experimented with various text prompts to enhance
segmentation mask quality and effectively identify different
fruits within each dataset. Overall, we achieved satisfactory
results across various fruit types using the generic text prompt
”fruits”. However, for specific fruits such as apple, plum,
lemon, pear, and peach, employing the fruit’s name as the
text prompt yielded the most accurate results. For mangos, we
did not obtain good results in both cases, but instead for using
the prompt ’apple’. It should be noted that using the singular
of the fruit name achieved significantly better results than the
plural. Furthermore, to increase the number of segmentation
results, we set the detection threshold in grounding DINO
and SAM to a low-threshold value. Additionally, for the real-
world dataset we segmented the images on the maximum
image size. For the computation of FruitNeRF we down-
sampled the images and semantic masks to a resolution of
1000 px × 1500 px.
Our second network is a self-trained U-Net, using a
manually annotated subset of 62 images from our real-world
data. These images were tiled into smaller 2000 px×2000 px
sub-images and resized by a factor of 0.5 to meet GPU
memory constraints. To enhance the dataset, we incorporated
2D images and segmentation masks from [30] and employed a
random-seeded augmentation pipeline that includes geometric
transformations, color distortions, and pixel dropout. A
PyTorch implementation of U-Net [31] was trained for the
task of binary segmentation of apples.
One key difference between masks generated with SAM
and U-Net is that SAM produces masks with soft edges that
do not precisely align with the image edge e.g., between
apples and leaves. Conversely, U-Net produces masks that
closely resemble the original image, offering a more accurate
representation. Both architectures were evaluated using the
validation split from the fuji dataset [30] as a holdout test set.
Segmentation results were measured using intersection over
union weighted on class prevalence per image. Segmentation
results averaged over all test set images were 0.919 for SAM
and 0.962 for U-Net. The results of FruitNeRF based on
Grounding DINO and SAM masks compared to the U-Net
results for apple counting are displayed in Fig. 8.
2) NeRF Implementation and Training: The basis for
FruitNeRF is Nerfacto [32], a method that combines state-of-
the-art components from recent papers with significant impact
regarding ray generation and sampling, scene contraction, and
NeRF fields.
For FruitNeRF we extended Nerfacto by a semantic
component, also referred to as Fruit Field. The overview of the
NeRF architecture is depicted in Fig. 6. The semantic branch
takes only the feature vector of the predicted density as an
input and not the viewing direction, as the semantic modality
is view-independent. For training on the posed images, we
used a default rendering loss to compute the photo-metric
error between the pixel’s RGB value C(r) and the predicted
color value ˆC(r) for ray r by:
LPhoto =
1
|R|
∑︁
r∈R
||C(r) −ˆC(r)||2
2,
(4)
where R is denoted as the set of sampled rays. Regarding the
semantics, we leveraged binary cross entropy for pixel-wise
classification probability in fruit or background class by:
LSem =
1
|R|
∑︁
r∈R
𝑝(r) log ˆ𝑝(r) + (1−𝑝(r)) log(1−ˆ𝑝(r)). (5)
The total training loss is then composed by:
L = LPhoto + LSem.
(6)
In semantic NeRF [24] the semantic loss gets an additional
weight as they propagate the semantic gradient back through
the Density Field. We on the other side restrict back-
propagation of the semantic loss to only the Fruit Field.
Fig. 6: Overview of the FruitNeRF architecture, which is split up into
three different components. The density field encodes the volume
density 𝜎, the Appearance Field the color RGB, and the Fruit Field
the semantic information about the fruit in space. The dashed red
arrow indicates the flow direction of the gradient. The figure is
inspired by semantic NeRF [24] and adapted from ¨Ozer et al. [33].

TABLE I: Detected fruit on different fruit types. The used synthetic data have an image size of 1024 px ×1024 px and contain 300 frames
sampled from the upper hemisphere. The data is listed with rendered GT semantic masks and with masks generated by SAM.
Fruit Type
GT Mask
Precision
Recall
F1-Score
SAM
Precision
Recall
F1-Score
Text prompt
Apple
283/283
1.0
1
1
282/283
0.992
0.989
0.991
apple
Plum
651/781
0.973
0.812
0.885
315/781
1.0
0.403
0.575
apple & plum
Lemon
316/326
0.993
0.963
0.978
326/326
0.982
0.982
0.982
lemon
Pear
236/250
1.0
0.944
0.971
229/250
1.0
0.916
0.956
pear
Peach
148/152
1.0
0.973
0.987
148/152
1.0
0.973
0.987
peach
Mango
926/1150
0.978
0.788
0.873
807/1150
0.989
0.694
0.816
apple
Otherwise, the Density Field would focus on predicting
density values for spatial points only belonging to fruit.
We implemented two different network sizes: FruitNeRF
and FruitNeRF-Big. FruitNeRF utilizes 2 layers for its Fruit
Field, with a hidden layer size of 64 neurons. The input layer
has a dimension of 15 (the input is a 15-dimensional latent
vector from the Density Field). The output dimension of
the neural network is 64, which serves as input for a neural
segmentation head that reduces the dimension to a single
class. For FruitNeRF-Big, we increased the layer depth to 3
and increased the hidden dimension to 128 neurons. The input
dimension is set to 30 and the output size is kept identical.
In the larger variant, we also increased the overall capacity
for the density and appearance according to the Nerfacto-Big
implementation [32]. For training, we used an Nvidia RTX
A5000 with 24GB VRAM. Training time for FruitNeRF is
an estimate of 12 min and for FruitNeRF-Big roughly 2h and
30min. We used an input image size of 1000 px × 1500 px
for real-world data and 1024 px × 1024 px for synthetic data.
3) Field Export: A sampling of the FruitNeRF volume is
achieved by viewing the scene with an orthographic camera
model. We first define a unit cube or use a predefined region
of interest around our scene and select one side of the cube
to be the image plane. By splitting the image plane into
pixels, we can cast multiple rays and query the FruitNeRF at
a predefined number of steps. By discarding points with a
density and semantic value under a fixed threshold, we obtain
a point cloud with only fruit points.
C. FruitNeRF Evaluation and Results
In this section, we evaluate our approach using synthetic
and real-world data with a focus on the following points:
• The FruitNeRF counting performance is evaluated across
six distinct types of fruit based on the synthetic dataset.
• The amount and resolution of input images are varied to
investigate the influence of these parameters on resulting
fruit counts.
• Two scaled FruitNeRF architectures are applied to mul-
tiple apple datasets and various segmentation pipelines
to demonstrate the robustness and practical applicability
of our approach in a real-world setting.
For the first experiment, we trained the default FruitNeRF
model on each type of fruit using 300 images at a resolution of
1024 px × 1024 px. Afterward, we evaluated the performance
using both ground truth masks and masks generated by
Grounded-SAM [21]. The summarized results are presented
in Table I. In general, FruitNeRF with ground truth masks
exhibited an average F1-score of 0.95 compared to SAM-
generated masks at 0.88. Particularly for apples, lemons,
pears, and peaches, both sets of results closely matched
the actual fruit count, resulting in excellent precision and
recall values. The worst results with SAM were achieved for
plums and mangoes with recall values of 0.4 and 0.69. This
performance drop can be attributed to the significantly higher
fruit occlusions, which impaired SAM’s prediction quality.
SAM masks are more accurate for trees with relatively low
fruit counts and fewer occlusions. It can be observed that the
centers of the trees were either poorly reconstructed or not
present in the fruit cloud at all.
In our second experiment, we evaluated the impact of
varying numbers of images and image resolutions. To achieve
this, we down-sampled both RGB images and semantic masks
from the original apple tree rendering to resolutions of 1024,
512, 256, and 128 px. We initiated the experiment with a
consistent set of 5 images with ground truth masks and
incrementally introduced additional images up until 100. For
each set of images, we trained a new FruitNeRF, extracted
the fruit point cloud, and applied our fruit count clustering
with constant parameters. The evaluation results for different
resolutions are presented in Figure 7.
It is evident that FruitNeRF struggles to learn a meaningful
representation with a sparse number of images, particularly
when fewer than 20 images are used. A notable improvement
is observed when using 20-30 images with fruit count
peaks across all resolutions. This phenomenon is caused by
5
20
30
40
50
60
70
100
0
100
200
283
400
500
(20, 696)
Num. Frames
Fruit Num.
1024
512
256
128
Fig. 7: Fruit count dependence on number of frames. For this
evaluation, we utilized the ground truth mask with different sizes.
The ground truth count of the synthetic apple tree is 283.

Tree 01
Tree 02
Tree 03
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
147
86
190
173
112
264
146
88
255
172
114
243
179
113
291
Fruit Num.
SAM
SAM-B
U-Net
U-Net-B
GT
Fuji
0
500
1,000
1,455
974
1,556
1,323
1,459
0
Fuji
0
500
1,000
1,455
842
1,191
1,059
1,142
1,455
Fig. 8: The estimated apple count for the 3 recorded real-world datasets was evaluated using masks generated with SAM and U-Net,
employing two different FruitNeRF sizes: default and big (-B). The image size for each tree dataset is 1000 px × 1500 px. GT apple
counts (Tree 01-03) were obtained through manual counting on-site, and clustering parameters were kept consistent per tree. The Fuji
dataset [30] contains 11 trees. The highlighted bar indicates the correctly counted (recall), and the white bar on top is the number of
overall counted fruit.
insufficient information presented to the Fruit Field, leading
to the smearing of semantic knowledge over the entire tree,
resulting in a significant increase in clusters falsely counted as
fruits. As FruitNeRF is exposed to more images, the precision
of the fruit cloud improves, as well as the accuracy of the
counting. To achieve accurate fruit counts, we found that for
a resolution of 128 px, 60 images are required; for 256 px,
50 images are needed; and for 512 px and 1024 px, 30-40
images are necessary.
Lastly, we evaluated FruitNeRF using two different real-
world datasets. We used masks generated by Grounded-
SAM and our U-Net. Additionally, we employed a normal
(FruitNeRF) and a larger NeRF model (FruitNeRF-Big).
For our dataset, depicted in Fig. 8 on the left, we achieved
a detection rate on average of ∼89% for Trees 1 and 2 for
both U-Net and SAM. However, results for Tree 3 reveal a
detection rate drop to ∼82%, which is caused by the tree’s
more complex structure and resulting extensive occlusions
within the tree crown.
As a second dataset, we choose the Fuji-SfM dataset,
which consists of 11 trees in a row captured with 582
images from both tree sides. FruitNeRF-Big with SAM and
U-Net generated masks achieves a F1-Score of 0.79 and 0.78
respectively, which is near the 0.88 of the original paper [19].
Those are decent results, considering that our pipeline offers
unified counting of arbitrary fruits and was not fine-tuned
on apples specifically. For the Fuji data, the smaller models
performed worse than those with more parameters. The gap
between the differently sized architectures can be attributed to
the elongated shape of the Fuji scene, which does not make
use of the space efficiently. Larger models have increased
capacity that can be effectively used to encode data of complex
scenes more precisely. In comparison, our recorded apple
trees (Tree 01-03) can make better use of the volume within
the unit cube as their scenes are less complex and thus, result
in smaller performance gaps between FruitNeRF-Big and
FruitNeRF.
V. Limitations
While FruitNeRF demonstrates promising results and
addresses common challenges in fruit counting, several
limitations persist. The primary constraint lies in the sig-
nificant training time and GPU memory requirements, as our
method heavily relies on image data coverage and quality.
Consequently, our approach is not yet suitable for real-time
applications or edge computing. Initial experiments with
Gaussian Splatting [34] have decreased computing times for
our pipeline, and utilizing other architectures, such as PAgNerf
[11], might lead to even faster computations.
Moreover, the cascaded clustering technique involves
hyperparameters that require manual adjustment according to
the type of fruit, complicating unified automation processes.
Additionally, the second clustering stage is bound to a nominal
fruit size, necessitating adaptation for valid counting of
varying fruit sizes at different growth stages. Implementing
a learned approach for fruit detection within the point
cloud could significantly alleviate this issue and enhance
the efficiency of fruit counting.
As an industrial application, low lighting conditions and
different exposure levels due to changing weather conditions
could worsen the results of the NeRF reconstruction. There-
fore, implementations such as Low-Light NeRF [35] and
HDR-NeRF [36] could tackle these problems. Additionally,
the presence of a non-static scene, caused by wind, must be
further investigated to determine if dynamic NeRF approaches
such as RobustNeRF [37] can solve these issues.
Nevertheless, we are confident that the application poten-
tial of our approach will benefit from rapid technological
improvements in hardware and 3D reconstruction techniques,
which will mitigate these limitations.
VI. Conclusion and Future Work
This paper introduces FruitNeRF, a novel framework
designed to accurately count visible fruits within a neural radi-
ance field. Leveraging only 2D images, FruitNeRF facilitates
precise 3D reconstructions of trees, enabling accurate fruit

counting. By integrating Grounded-SAM into the FruitNeRF
pipeline, arbitrary types of fruit can be counted without the
need for costly annotations and the training of a U-Net.
Our framework has been thoroughly validated in both
synthetic and real-world scenarios, representing the first
application of NeRFs for fruit counting to our knowledge. The
experiments demonstrate that FruitNeRF achieves an F1-score
of 0.95 on our synthetic dataset with ground truth masks,
while masks generated by SAM attain around an F1-score of
0.88 averaged over six different fruit species. Additionally,
we have illustrated that excellent results can be obtained
with only 40 images per tree and a resolution of 512 px ×
512 px, demonstrating the scalability and effectiveness of
our approach. Fruit counting on our self-recorded real-world
apple dataset showcases a detection rate exceeding 89%
across various masks and network architectures. For the Fuji
benchmark dataset, we demonstrate an F1-score of 0.79.
From this novel fruit-counting approach, several promising
directions for future research emerge. Primary efforts should
focus on improving the clustering step, as it is highly
sensitive to hyper-parameter tuning. Additionally, to broaden
the applicability of FruitNeRF, the use of time-series images
should be considered. This could reduce the number of
required images and help achieve real-time performance.
As we aim to be a unified fruit counting network, further
investigation into soft fruits such as strawberries, raspberries,
grapes, and other small-sized fruits should be carried out.
Extending the framework’s utility beyond individual trees
to entire orchard rows could be explored through the inte-
gration of online pose estimation methods like Simultaneous
Localization and Mapping (SLAM). Simulation environments,
such as SLAM in Blender [38], could serve as valuable test
beds for refining detection rate.
Moreover, the versatility of neural radiance fields extends
beyond visible light, presenting opportunities to incorporate
other modalities such as near-infrared or thermal imaging,
as demonstrated by ¨Ozer [33]. FruitNeRF demonstrates the
potential to enhance fruit counting capabilities, but leveraging
neural radiance fields also enables broader orchard analysis,
including ripeness assessment, stress level monitoring, and
guidance of harvesting robots.
VII. Acknowledgement
We extend our gratitude to Adam Kalisz for his unique
Blender skills, Victoria Schmidt, and Annika Killer for their
invaluable assistance in evaluating the recorded apple trees.
Additional thanks to Roland Gruber, Christoph Drescher,
and Julian Bittner for their annotation support.
This project is funded by the 5G innovation program of
the German Federal Ministry for Digital and Transport under
the funding code 165GU103B.
References
[1] United Nations, ”Shifting Demographics,” 2023, Accessed on: Nov. 5,
2023.
[2] R. Schrijver, et al., ”Precision agriculture and the future of farming in
Europe, ” Scientific Foresight Unit - EU, 2016.
[3] G. Gyarmati, et al., ”The present and future of the precision agriculture,”
SoSE, 2020.
[4] J. C. Miranda, et al., ”Fruit sizing using AI: A review of methods and
challenges,” Postharvest Biology and Technology, 2023.
[5] X. Liu, et al., ”Robust Fruit Counting: Combining Deep Learning,
Tracking, and Structure from Motion,” IROS, 2018.
[6] P. Roy, et al., ”Registering Reconstructions of the Two Sides of Fruit
Tree Rows,” IROS, 2018.
[7] B. Mildenhall, et al., ”NeRF: Representing Scenes as Neural Radiance
Fields for View Synthesis,” ECCV, 2020.
[8] M. Caron, et al., ”Emerging Properties in Self-Supervised Vision
Transformers,” ICCV, 2021.
[9] A. Kirillov, et al., ”Segment Anything,” ArXiv, 2023.
[10] O. Ronneberger, et al., ”U-Net: Convolutional Networks for Biomedical
Image Segmentation,” MICCAI, 2015.
[11] S. Claus et al., PAg-NeRF: Towards fast and efficient end-to-end
panoptic 3D representations for agricultural robotics, IEEE Robotics
and Automation Letters, 2023.
[12] C. Smitt, et al., ”PATHoBot: A Robot for Glasshouse Crop Phenotyping
and Intervention,” ICRA, 2021.
[13] A. Riccardi, et al., ”Fruit Tracking Over Time Using High-Precision
Point Clouds,” ICRA, 2023.
[14] M. Sorour, et al., ”Compact Strawberry Harvesting Tube Employing
Laser Cutter,” IROS, 2022.
[15] X. Liu, et al., ”Monocular Camera Based Fruit Counting and Mapping
With Semantic Data Association,” IEEE Robotics and Automation
Letters, 2019.
[16] N. H¨ani, et al., ”A comparative study of fruit detection and counting
methods for yield mapping in apple orchards,” Journal of Field Robotics,
2020.
[17] N. H¨ani, et al., ”Apple Counting using Convolutional Neural Networks,”
IROS, 2018.
[18] S. Chen, et al., ”Counting Apples and Oranges With Deep Learning: A
Data-Driven Approach,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 2017.
[19] J. Gen´e-Mola, et al., ”Fruit detection and 3D location using instance
segmentation neural networks and structure-from-motion photogram-
metry,” Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 2020.
[20] J. L. Sch¨onberger, et al., ”Structure-from-Motion Revisited,” CVPR,
2016.
[21] T. Ren, et al., ”Grounded SAM: Assembling Open-World Models for
Diverse Visual Tasks, ” ArXiv, 2024.
[22] S. Liu, et al., ”Grounding dino: Marrying dino with grounded pre-
training for open-set object detection,” ArXiv, 2023.
[23] A. Kirillov, et al., ”Segment Anything,” ArXiv, 2023.
[24] S. Zhi, et al., ”In-Place Scene Labelling and Understanding with
Implicit Scene Representation.” ArXiv, 2021.
[25] M. Ester, et al., ”A density-based algorithm for discovering clusters in
large spatial databases with noise, ” Knowledge Discovery and Data
Mining, 1996.
[26] F. Pedregosa, et al., ”Scikit-learn: Machine Learning in Python,” Journal
of Machine Learning Research, 2011.
[27] A, Taha, et al., ”An Efficient Algorithm for Calculating the Exact
Hausdorff Distance,” PAMI, 2015.
[28] XFrog Inc., LIBRARY: FRUIT TREES, 2020.
[29] M. Raafat, ”BlenderNeRF” (Version 5.0.0), 2023, [Computer software].
https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.7926211
[30] J. Gen´e-Mola, et al., ”Fuji-SfM dataset: A collection of annotated
images and point clouds for Fuji apple detection and location using
structure-from-motion photogrammetry,” Data in Brief, 2020.
[31] A. Milesi, ”Pytorch-UNet,” GitHub, 2017.
[32] M. Tancik, et al. “Nerfstudio: A Modular Framework for Neural
Radiance Field Development.” SIGGRAPH, 2023.
[33] M. ¨Ozer, et al., ”Exploring Multi-modal Neural Scene Representations
With Applications on Thermal Imaging,” ArXiv, 2024.
[34] B. Kerbl, et al., ”3D Gaussian Splatting for Real-Time Radiance Field
Rendering,” SIGGRAPH, 2023.
[35] H. Wang,et al., ”Lighting up NeRF via Unsupervised Decomposition
and Enhancement.” , ICCV, 2023.
[36] X. Huang, et al., ”Hdr-nerf: High dynamic range neural radiance
fields.”, CVPR, 2022.
[37] S. Sabour, et al., ”RobustNeRF: Ignoring Distractors With Robust
Losses.”, CVPR, 2023.
[38] A. Kalisz, et al., “B-SLAM-SIM: A Novel Approach to Evaluate
the Fusion of Visual SLAM and GPS by Example of Direct Sparse
Odometry and Blender,” VISIGRAPP, 2019.
