IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AUTOMATION SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING
1
NTrack: A Multiple-Object Tracker and Dataset for
Infield Cotton Boll Counting
Md Ahmed Al Muzaddid
and William J. Beksi , Member, IEEE
©2023 IEEE. Personal use of this material is permitted. Permission from IEEE must be obtained for all other uses, in any current or future media, including
reprinting/republishing this material for advertising or promotional purposes, creating new collective works, for resale or redistribution to servers or lists, or
reuse of any copyrighted component of this work in other works.
Abstract—In agriculture, automating the accurate tracking of
fruits, vegetables, and fiber is a very tough problem. The issue
becomes extremely challenging in dynamic field environments.
Yet, this information is critical for making day-to-day agricultural
decisions, assisting breeding programs, and much more. To tackle
this dilemma, we introduce NTrack, a novel multiple object
tracking framework based on the linear relationship between the
locations of neighboring tracks. NTrack computes dense optical
flow and utilizes particle filtering to guide each tracker. Corre-
spondences between detections and tracks are found through data
association via direct observations and indirect cues, which are
then combined to obtain an updated observation. Our modular
multiple object tracking system is independent of the underlying
detection method, thus allowing for the interchangeable use of
any off-the-shelf object detector. We show the efficacy of our
approach on the task of tracking and counting infield cotton bolls.
Experimental results show that our system exceeds contemporary
tracking and cotton boll-based counting methods by a large
margin. Furthermore, we publicly release the first annotated
cotton boll video dataset to the research community.
Note to Practitioners—This work is motivated by the need to
provide highly-accurate estimates of the total number of cotton
bolls across an entire farm. We provide a multiple object tracking
framework for automating the counting process using a dynamic
motion model that can reidentify severely occluded objects. This
information is immensely beneficial to agronomists and breeders.
For example, it can allow them to accelerate the selection of
genotypes and identify cotton cultivars that exhibit tolerance to
adverse environmental conditions (e.g., drought, poor soil quality,
etc.) via yield prediction. Since the performance of our tracker
is tied to the accuracy of the object detector, the ability to swap
detectors is important for enhancing the usability of the system.
Our dataset structure was modeled after similar multiple object
tracking datasets for the purpose of increasing adoption among
practitioners. To implement our system, it is assumed that the
image/video capture device is of high resolution and data is
acquired under ideal lighting conditions. The framework can be
run on any commercial-off-the-shelf platform (e.g., ground-based
robots, unmanned aerial vehicles, etc.), with sufficient computing
and memory resources, using a vision-based sensor.
Index Terms—Agricultural automation, computer vision for
automation, visual tracking.
Manuscript received 20 September 2023; accepted 30 November 2023. This
article was recommended for publication by Associate Editor K. Zhu and Ed-
itor G. Fortino upon evaluation of the reviewers’ comments. (Corresponding
author: William J. Beksi).
The authors are with the Department of Computer Science and Engineering,
The University of Texas at Arlington, Arlington, TX 76019, USA. (e-mail:
mdahmedal.muzaddid@mavs.uta.edu, william.beksi@uta.edu).
Color versions of one or more figures in this article are available at
https://doi.org/10.1109/TASE.2023.3342791.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TASE.2023.3342791
MULTIMEDIA MATERIAL
The source code, dataset, and documentation associated
with this project can be found at https://robotic-vision-
lab.github.io/ntrack.
I. INTRODUCTION
C
OTTON (Gossypium hirsutum L.) is a vital source of
natural fiber. It accounts for nearly 25% of total world
textile fiber use [1]. Not only is cotton one of the most
important textile fibers in the world, but it has also become a
substantial source of food and feed for humans and livestock
by providing cottonseed oil and hulls [2]. Improving the
production of cotton is essential to fulfilling the fiber, food, and
feed requirements of the Earth’s increasing population [3]. In
addition, cotton is a high-valued crop that requires a significant
number of inputs such as preparing seed beds, planting, reduc-
ing competition from insects and weeds, applying harvest aids,
and harvesting. Therefore, among stakeholders, the high return
value and cost of cotton production provides incentives for
embracing technologies to improve profitability by reducing
expenses and boosting yields [4].
A. Significance of Counting Cotton Bolls
Infield cotton boll counting is key to predicting fiber yield as
well as providing a better understanding of the physiological
and genetic mechanisms of the crop’s growth and develop-
ment. Repeated counting can contribute to the calculation of
the growth rate in the flowering and boll maturity stages, and
allow for selecting genotypes that more effectively utilize their
energy to form cotton products. The standard approach to
obtain yield information is by manual field sampling, which is
tedious, labor intensive, and expensive. Constrained by these
limitations, sampling is done over a few separate crops and the
measurements are extrapolated over an entire farm. However,
inherent human bias and sparsity in the measurements can
result in inaccurate yield estimation. Improving yield is a pri-
mary objective in cotton management projects. Physiological
factors and environmental variables all have an effect on flower
and boll retention. Understanding these processes is crucial
not only to enhancing cotton yield, but also to advancing the
study of plant phenotyping, i.e., the process of measuring and
analyzing observable plant characteristics.
B. Object Detection and Tracking in Agriculture
The last few decades have seen remarkable advances in
vision-based object tracking.
This research has mainly been
arXiv:2312.10922v1  [cs.CV]  18 Dec 2023

Detector
Tracker
Count
a
b
e
d
c
f
Fig. 1: An overview of NTrack, a multiple object tracking system for
infield cotton boll counting. The steps from data collection to cotton
boll count estimation are the following: a - capture video, b - extract
video frames, c - detect cotton bolls, d - input cotton boll detections
to the tracker, e - input video to the tracker, f - output the number
of cotton bolls.
applied to tracking pedestrians [5]–[7] and vehicles [8], [9],
with benefits to many other important applications such as
surveillance, traffic safety, autonomous driving, and more.
Nevertheless, vision-based tracking has not evolved propor-
tionally for the agricultural domain. There is a dire need
for tracking algorithms and datasets to support operations in
agriculture. For instance, plant detection and tracking may
be utilized to optimize the usage of water, fertilizer, or
other chemicals through variable-rate applications. Accurately
counting the number of leaves, flowers, fruits, etc., is vital for
yield prediction and plant phenotyping. Non-destructive, high-
throughput data acquisition platforms (e.g., unmanned aerial
vehicles, ground-based robots, etc.) are enabling experts to
analyze more of this data for optimization.
C. Challenges in Detecting and Tracking Cotton Bolls
Detecting cotton bolls is a hard problem and tracking cannot
be done if the object detector fails. Bolls are often clustered
together and they may be split into two or more disjoint
regions by branches, foliage, or other occlusions. In contrast
to fruits with rigid shapes (e.g., apples, oranges, etc.), cotton
bolls have complex structures and varied sizes [10]. Hence,
the ability to detect and provide a highly-accurate count of
the total number of cotton bolls in a given field is an open
problem that we address with our framework, Fig. 1.
The lack of high-quality datasets is a significant roadblock
for meaningful progress in precision plant phenotyping. Anno-
tated video datasets for cotton crops are nonexistent. With the
aim of establishing a robust system for tracking and counting
cotton bolls, we created TexCot22 [11], an infield cotton
boll video dataset. Each tracking sequence was collected from
unique rows of an outdoor cotton crop research plot located
in the High Plains region of Texas, Fig. 2. The research
plot is comprised of multiple varieties of cotton. Specifically,
each row contains the same cultivar of cotton while different
rows have unrelated cultivars. This results in a diverse variety
of cotton boll shapes and sizes. Additionally, we captured
video sequences from rows treated with contrasting levels of
irrigation, which has a direct impact on the size and the shape
of bolls.
Fig. 2: The cotton crop research field used for data collection.
In summary, our contributions are the following.
• We propose a new tracking system that infers an occluded
object’s location based on the visibility of its neighbors,
and allows the tracker to maintain identity even under the
existence of heavy occlusions.
• We
identify
limitations
in
appearance-based
re-
identification techniques by outperforming the state of
the art in many metrics.
• We present the first publicly available infield cotton
boll video dataset for advancing vision-based research in
precision plant phenotyping.
The remainder of the paper is structured as follows. We
explain the object detection and tracking problem, and summa-
rize related research in Section II. In Section III, our detection
and tracking system is presented. The details of our infield
cotton boll video dataset are provided in Section IV. Section V
outlines and discusses the results of our experimental evalu-
ation. We conclude in Section VI and provide directions for
future work.
II. RELATED WORK
Detecting and tracking objects is one of the most fundamen-
tal tasks in computer vision. Object detection is the process
of identifying a target object in an image or a single video
frame. Specifically, it is the task of detecting instances of
objects that belong to a certain class. Object tracking seeks
to predict the positions, and other pertinent information, of
moving objects in a video. Single-object tracking involves
the following steps: (i) detect the location of the object, (ii)
assign a unique identification to the object, and (iii) track the
object as it moves through the video sequence while storing
the relevant information. In multiple object tracking (MOT)
[12], given an input video the task is partitioned into locating
multiple objects, maintaining their identities, and yielding their
individual trajectories. The overall process is shown in Fig. 3.
A. Multiple Object Tracking
MOT approaches can be categorized into online and offline
(batch) tracking. While offline tracking optimizes output based
on past and future observations, online tracking only has ac-
cess to information up until the current frame. Offline methods
formalize tracking as an association problem and are solved by
using global optimization techniques. For example, early work
by Zhang et al. [13] used a probabilistic model to associate
detections with tracks by solving an augmented min-cost flow
problem. A hierarchical association framework that allows for
2

(a) Detection
(b) Tracking
Fig. 3: Multiple object tracking involves (a) detecting the location of objects and placing bounding boxes around them; and (b) associating
a unique identification to each object, which is then used to track the trajectories of the objects as they pass through the video sequence.
the integration of affinity measures or optimization methods
was put forth by Huang et al. [14]. Yang et al. [15] attempted
to find the best global associations and transformed the task
of finding these associations into an energy minimization
problem.
With limited information, online methods tend to be im-
plemented in a greedy fashion. Currently, the dominant ap-
proach for online tracking follows a tracking-by-detection
paradigm (e.g., [6], [16]–[18]). When performing tracking-
by-detection, an object detector first localizes all objects of
interest via a set of bounding boxes. Then, the tracking system
associates bounding boxes with preexisting tracks based on
motion, appearance, spatial, or other affinities. As a result,
object detection accuracy plays a decisive role in the final
tracking performance. However, many methods only consider
detection boxes whose scores are higher than a set threshold.
Objects with low detection scores (e.g., due to occlusions) are
discarded, which results in sub-optimal results. Trackers such
as ByteTrack [19] try to solve this problem by considering
nearly every detection in their association method.
B. Motion Models
Various motion models have been used to estimate spatial
affinity including the bounding box intersection over union
and Euclidean distance metrics. For instance, to estimate a
pedestrian’s velocity, Leal-Taix´e et al. [20] introduced an
interaction feature encoded from image features based on the
pedestrian’s environment. Bewley et al. [21] used a Kalman
filter-based motion model to predict track positions while
detections are associated via the Hungarian algorithm [22].
To overcome the linearity and Gaussian restriction of the
Kalman filter, Okuma et al. [23] utilized a particle filter for
tracking. Li et al. [24] used a cascade particle filter, which
consists of multiple stages of importance sampling to track
objects in low frame rate videos. Optical flow was exploited by
Choi [25] to encode the relative motion pattern for estimating
the likelihood of matching detections. Yoon et al. [26] consid-
ered time-varying multiple relative motion models to represent
motion context and facilitate data association. Although these
approaches exploit relative motion, their constant velocity
motion model is not applicable for many scenarios including
ours.
Mauri et al. [27] discussed the use of depth, predicted
from monocular images using self-supervised depth estimation
[28], to estimate vehicular motion. Unfortunately, coarse depth
estimation based on such techniques cannot be used in our
situation. These models are not able to distinguish between
two cotton bolls at slightly different depths. In our approach,
we use an optical flow-based dynamic motion model along
with a relative location estimator to update object locations.
C. Appearance Models
Similar to motion models, appearance models are ex-
tensively used in MOT. An appearance model extracts re-
identification features from image regions corresponding to
each bounding box. Appearance-based affinity metrics have
proven to be very informative in the presence of long-
occlusion intervals. Examples include POI [5], DeepSORT
[6], and Tracktor [16], which extract appearance features
using deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs). Recent
transformer-based approaches (e.g., TrackFormer [29]) also
use implicit appearance cues to reidentify objects. More
traditional methods have been used too. For instance, re-
gion covariance matrices [30], color histograms [31], and
gradient-based representations [32], may be leveraged to find
appearance-based similarity. In contrast to these works, we
propose a relative location-based re-identification technique
that can handle significant changes in appearance due to long-
spanning occlusions.
D. Multiple Object Tracking in Agriculture
Precisely detecting and tracking objects is imperative for
automated fruit/vegetable/fiber counting. In work by Hung et
al. [33], apple trees were sampled every 0.5 meters to estimate
yield by counting the apples in each non-overlapping image.
Chen et al. [34] implemented a two-stage method to count
apples and oranges from images. An incremental structure
from motion technique was proposed by Roy and Isler [35]
to register and localize apples in 3D, which is later used for
extracting the count. H¨ani et al. [36] first identified apple
clusters in images based on color, and then used a CNN to
classify the clusters where each class represents the number of
apples in the cluster. Afonso et al. [37] provided a detection-
based approach to enumerate tomatoes in images captured
3

Fl−1
Fl
Optical
Flow
Predict
Detector
Association
Update
Update
Initialize
Refiner
T
Dfl
Ta
Td
Du
R
L
A
Fig. 4: The NTrack pipeline. The Association module finds correspondences between the predicted state of T tracks (top, green squares). Dfl
is the set of detection bounding boxes (bottom, green squares) detected in frame Fl. The dormant (unmatched) tracks Td (orange squares)
are analyzed by the Relative Location Analyzer (RLA) and updated accordingly. In the RLA module, the dormant tracks’ locations (orange
circles) are estimated based on the location of their nearest neighbors (green circles). Unmatched detections Du (bottom, light-green squares)
are passed through the Initialize module as candidates for a new track.
from a greenhouse environment. A DeepSORT inspired track-
ing method to count fruit in a controlled setting was used by
Kirk et al. [38]. All of the aforementioned techniques tally
fruits composed of rigid shapes, which are simpler to separate
into clusters thus making the counting task easier. On the other
hand, counting irregular-shaped cotton bolls under dynamic
field conditions is far more challenging.
E. Cotton Boll Counting
To acquire information for yield prediction, recent research
has developed algorithms to segment and count cotton bolls.
Sun et al. [39] introduced a counting method based on the
geometric features of cotton bolls. This was done by ap-
plying color and spatial features to segment bolls from the
background, followed by geometric feature-based algorithms
to estimate the boll count. Tedesco-Oliveira et al. [40] used
different deep learning-based object detection models on a
cotton crop dataset consisting of 948 images for training,
236 images for validation, and 205 images for testing. By
comparison, our dataset is significantly larger (see Section IV)
and we employ a model that is capable of detecting objects of
various sizes. Sun et al. [41] take a 3D approach to counting
cotton bolls by using point clouds reconstructed from multi-
view images via structure from motion under field conditions.
All of the preceding methods investigate the counting of
cotton bolls from images. Image-based counting requires au-
tomated or manual sampling. For example, Tedesco-Oliveira
et al. [40] selected 25 dissimilar images so that there were no
overlapping images in each video sequence. Such sampling-
based methods demand additional pre-processing and post-
processing steps. Conversely, our approach not only eliminates
this overhead without sacrificing accuracy, but it also achieves
better accuracy than previous works. Moreover, we argue that
counting from videos has the potential to locate additional
cotton bolls since the counting sequence enables an automated
system to find bolls that may otherwise be occluded in a single
image. To the best of our knowledge, our work is the first to
engage in the cotton boll counting task directly from infield
video sequences.
III. APPROACH
The architectural overview of NTrack is depicted in Fig. 4.
Similar to other tracking-by-detection systems, the perfor-
mance of NTrack highly depends upon the detection accuracy.
We assume that the detection bounding boxes in every frame
are estimated prior to tracking. The tracking procedure is
independent of the underlying detection algorithm, which
allows NTrack’s Detector module to use any state-of-the-art
object detection method to identify cotton bolls.
Multiple tracks, each linked to a unique cotton boll and
steered/guided by a particle filter, are responsible for esti-
mating the location of an associated boll. The job of the
Association module is to find the correspondences between
detections and tracks based on a matching criteria. Given a
track’s past trajectory along with its neighbors’ trajectories,
the Relative Location Analyzer (RLA) module can estimate
the current location of the track. A track is suppressed by the
Refiner module if the track’s location goes out of the frame
border or it cannot be matched against a detection in recent
frames.
We denote a set of detections by D = {ri}, where ri is the
detection response represented as the tuple (xi, yi, si, wi, fi).
Within the tuple, (xi, yi) is the center, si is the size, and wi
is the width of the detected bounding box. The frame/time at
which an object is detected is defined by fi. Note that we use
fi to denote both the frame and time interchangeably. Dfl ⊂D
is the set of bounding boxes detected in frame fl. We define a
track τk ∈T over multiples frames by a set of bounding boxes
associated with a particular object, where T represents the set
of all tracks in the system. Ideally, each object is associated
with a single track. In reality, maintaining a perfect one-to-
one mapping between an object and a track is impossible
due to occlusions, misdetections, and ambiguous associations.
Therefore, a track is active in a given frame if the system can
successfully associate the track’s predicted bounding box with
a detected bounding box, otherwise it is dormant.
For each new frame Fl, dense optical flow is computed
by the Optical Flow module with respect to the previous
4

frame Fl−1 based on the Gunnar-Farneback algorithm [42].
Optical flow vectors are outputted for each pixel of the
frame. Next, informed by these flow vectors, all tracks predict
their new location in frame Fl via the Predict module. Each
track employs a particle filter for the prediction and update
step. The particle filters track the bounding box locations
(centers). Nonetheless, since the camera motion and movement
of the objects are irregular, neither a constant velocity nor
constant acceleration model-based state estimation performs
as expected. Hence, we apply a dynamic flow velocity model
for the bounding box location estimation. Unlike location, the
scale and width of the bounding box changes gradually and is
therefore tracked by a Kalman filter using a constant velocity
model.
With the detection bounding boxes provided by the tracks,
the Association module attempts to make a unique correspon-
dence between two sets of bounding boxes. It produces the
following outputs: (i) a set of active tracks Ta successfully
matched against detections Dm, (ii) a set of dormant tracks
Td
=
T \ Ta, and (iii) a set of unmatched detections
Du = Dfl \ Dm. The particle filters associated with the
active tracks Ta update their state using the information from
matched detections Dm through the Association module’s
Update module. The dormant track Td’s states are analyzed
by the RLA and updated via its Update module. If any of
the remaining unmatched detections Du exceeded a detection
confidence threshold, then they are initialized as new tracks
(Initialize module). Lastly, the Refiner module removes any
track that was dormant for the last 100 frames.
A. Object Location Prediction
Instead of using well-known motion models to predict
the next state (xi, yi, si, wi) of the object, we use optical
flow-based motion estimation. Due to outdoor environmental
conditions (e.g., wind), the branches of a cotton plant can
sway back and forth. Moreover, the camera movement over
the terrain is erratic, which causes irregular motion dynamics.
Even under these adverse conditions, we are still able to find
reliable locations of the tracked objects in image coordinates
through optical flow. In the prediction step, the particles of
the particle filter are moved according to the estimated flow
velocities. Since we have multiple targets per frame, we opt
for a robust to noise dense optical flow algorithm instead of
sparse flow, which would require estimating flow separately
for each object.
B. Object Location Update
During the update phase, a track could be in an active or
dormant state based on the association outputs. Thus, we use
one of two different routines to update a track. If the track is
active in frame fl, then we update the weight of the particles
based on direct observation (i.e., the detected object bounding
box from the detector). Otherwise, we use the relative locations
with respect to the neighboring tracks as indirect observations
to update the dormant track. More specifically, the relative
locations are used to calculate the bounding box center, which
is then used as a proxy for the direct observation in order to
update the particle filter.
C. Relative Object Location
Cotton plants in the field may move unpredictably, which
makes the tracking task much more difficult. However, the
locations of the cotton bolls are not totally independent of each
other. In fact, they are highly correlated with neighboring bolls,
Fig. 5. More formally, we denote the location (x, y) of a track
τi in the image coordinate at time fl as ρfl
τi ∈R2. The locations
along the image width (x) and height (y) are independent, and
the estimated location based on the neighbor track τj is defined
as ρfl
τi,τj ∈R2. Similarly, we define dfl
τi,τj ∈R2 as the relative
distance of track τi, with respect to neighbor τj, recorded at
time fl. For simplicity, in the following derivation we assume
ρfl
τi, ρfl
τi,τj, etc., are scalars and that they represent only the x
component of the location. Based on the observed correlation
(Fig. 5), we assume that the relative distance between two
neighboring tracks changes linearly with the track’s location.
Concretely, let dfl
τi,τj
= c1 · ρfl
τj + c0 where c1 and c0
are constants. We derive the linear relationship between the
locations of two neighboring tracks as
dfl
τi,τj = c1 · ρfl
τj + c0,
dfl
τi,τj + ρfl
τj = c1 · ρfl
τj + c0 + ρfl
τj,
(1)
ρfl
τi,τj = (c1 + 1) · ρfl
τj + c0,
which suggests that the location of neighboring tracks can be
a good estimator of a dormant track’s location.
Based on this insight, we calculate track τi’s location at time
fl based on a particular neighbor τj as follows. Let ρfl
τj and
ρfl
τi,τj be continuous random variables. The linear relationship
between a neighboring track’s location implies that we can
assume the mean E[ρfl
τi,τj] is linear in ρfl
τj. At the same time,
assuming the variance var[ρfl
τi,τj] is constant over fl, we can
model ρfl
τi,τj as a Gaussian random variable
ρfl
τi,τj ∼N(µfl
τi,τj, σ2
τi,τj),
(2)
where





ρf1
τi,τj
ρf2
τi,τj
...
ρfm
τi,τj




=





1
ρf1
τj
1
ρf2
τj
...
...
1
ρfm
τj





c0
c1

+





e1
e2
...
em




,
(3)
µfl
τi,τj = E[ρfl
τi,τj] = [1 ρfl
τj] · [c0 c1]⊤,
(4)
σ2
τi,τj = var[ρfl
τi,τj] =
P
i e2
i
m
.
(5)
We assume that there are m frames prior to frame fl in which
tracks τi and τj were active simultaneously and the relative
distances between them were recorded. c0 and c1 are the
least-squares solutions to (3). Finally, the estimated locations
ρfl
τi,τj | τj ∈kn(τi) based on k neighbors are combined as
follows (for simplicity we drop the superscript fl):
ρτi ∼
Y
τj ∈kn(τi)
N(µτi,τj, σ2
τi,τj),
(6)
∼βN(µτi, σ2
τi),
(7)
5

Fig. 5: The relative distance between neighboring cotton bolls changes gradually due to the shift in perspective. At frame 1142, the distance
between b46 and b44 is large (top left). At frame 1203, the distance between the bolls reduces (top right). At frame 1212, both bolls overlap,
i.e., the distance is zero (bottom left). The plot shows the relative distances between pairs of cotton bolls versus their locations (bottom
right). The distance and location are measured in image coordinates along x (width) direction. Each dotted line shows the distance between
a pair of cotton bolls. The straight lines are linear fits, for reference, to the respective dotted lines.
where β is a scaling factor and
στi =


X
τj∈kn(τi)
σ−2
τi,τj


−1/2
,
(8)
µτi = σ2
τi
X
τj∈kn(τi)
σ−2
τi,τjµτi,τj.
(9)
In (6), kn(τi) is the set of τi’s neighbors with cardinality k,
which is inspired by the Kalman filter’s approach to combine
the prior with an observation for an improved estimate. The
simplification from (6) to (7) is due to [43].
The neighbors kn(·) are selected based on the k-nearest
neighbors algorithm. We measure the distances between the
bounding box centers using their Euclidean norm. For a
particular track τi, we can end up with more than k neigh-
bor locations in total, even if we record just k neighboring
locations in each frame. In addition, we want to prioritize a
neighbor that was simultaneously active with τi in more frames
in the recent past. Therefore, to choose k neighbors among all
the recorded neighbors we rank each neighbor,
Rfl
τi(τj) =
X
fm∈A
fl
τi,τj
fm,
(10)
where Afl
τi,τj is the set of timestamps prior to fl in which
tracks τi and τj were active simultaneously. For example,
suppose tracks τi and τn1 are simultaneously active at times
2, 3, and 5. Then, Afl
τi,τn1 = {2, 3, 5} and similarly Afl
τi,τn2 =
{5, 6}. In this case, we prioritize the neighbor n2 according to
the rank, which is higher than n1 since Rfl
τi(τn2) = 5 + 6 >
Rfl
τi(τn1) = 2 + 3 + 5.
IV. COTTON BOLL DATASET
A. Video Acquisition Details
To construct the TexCot22 [11] dataset we captured multi-
ple video sequences for training and testing. Similar to other
tracking datasets, each tracking sequence is 10 to 20 seconds
in length. The dataset consists of a total of 30 sequences of
which 17 are for training and the remaining 13 are for testing.
The video sequences were captured at 4K resolution and at
distinct frame rates (e.g., 10, 15, 30). There are typically 2 to
10 cotton bolls per cluster. The average width and height of
an annotated bounding box is approximately 230×210 pixels.
To make the dataset robust to environmental conditions, we
recorded the field videos at separate times of day to account for
varying lighting conditions. In total, there are roughly 30×300
6

(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
Fig. 6: Examples (a-h) of annotated cotton boll field images with complex backgrounds from the TexCot22 [11] dataset.
Rule
What
Any open cotton bolls on plants excluding bolls that
have fallen to the ground.
When
Start when the enclosing bounding box enters the
frame. Remove as soon as the bounding box goes
beyond the frame border.
How
Annotations are not pixel perfect. The majority of
pixels belonging to a cotton boll should be contained
by the bounding box.
Occlusion
Annotate a cotton boll as long as it is partially visible
and distinguishable from the neighboring bolls. In
the case of a long occlusion interval, the same ID
is assigned to the occluded boll as long as it is
identifiable.
TABLE I: The annotation rules used for constructing the TexCot22
[11] dataset.
frames with 150,000 labeled instances. On average there are
70 unique cotton bolls in each sequence.
The directory structure of the dataset is similar to MOT17
[44]. The ground truth and the detection files are also available
in MOT17 format. Hence, any tracking method that runs on
MOT17 can readily utilize TexCot22 without any additional
modifications. Example ground-truth images from the dataset
are displayed in Fig. 6.
B. Annotation Rules
We followed a set of rules to exhaustively annotate all cotton
bolls in each sequence with bounding boxes. The bounding
boxes around the cotton bolls are very tight, however there
may exist some pixels outside of the bounding box that are part
of the boll. A compiled a set of annotation rules is provided
in Table I.
V. EXPERIMENTS
A. Implementation Details
To make a fair comparison among existing tracking meth-
ods, we generated the same set of detection bounding boxes
utilizing a Cascade R-CNN [45] model with a ResNet-50
backbone. Using the TexCot22 training data, the model was
trained for 100 epochs. The training took place on a CentOS
7.6.1810 machine using an Intel Xeon E5-2620 2.10 GHz
CPU, 132 GB of memory, and an NVIDIA GeForce GTX
1080 Ti GPU. The detection accuracy of the trained model
was 97% on the test data. We also tried the detector provided
by the official Tracktor [16] GitHub repository. However, our
detector achieved the best results among all the trackers.
For calculating dense optical flow, we made use of the
OpenCV [46] implementation of the Gunnar-Farneback al-
gorithm. The estimated flow velocity of a bounding box is
computed by averaging the velocities of the center pixels (e.g.,
a 3 × 3 window at the bounding box center). The problem
of assigning the set of detected bounding boxes to the set
of predicted bounding boxes is solved via ByteTrack’s [19]
association procedure.
To estimate the relative location based on the k-nearest
neighbors, we empirically opted for a neighbor size of three.
If we considered too many neighbors, then the RLA module
gave a coarse relative location. Conversely, a single neighbor
often provided a noisy estimation. The relative locations
along the x (width) and y (height) directions were calculated
independently using (7).
B. Cotton Boll Tracking Evaluation
We evaluated multiple MOT metrics including higher order
tracking accuracy (HOTA) [47], identity-aware [48], and those
defined by CLEAR MOT [49]. Association and localization
are two major criteria for deciding tracking performance.
While measures such as MOTA (accuracy) and MOTP (pre-
cision) emphasize localization, the IDP (identification pre-
cision), IDR (identification recall), IDF1 (identification F1
score), and IDsw (identity switches) put more weight on
maintaining true identity. The Frag (fragmentation) metric is
the number of times an object is lost, but then redetected
7

Method
IDP↑
IDR↑
IDF1↑
HOTA↑
MOTA↑
MOTP↑
IDsw↓
Frag↓
DeepSORT
82.50%
81.97%
82.24%
66.47%
84.80%
80.07%
1751
633
Tracktor
82.47%
81.01%
81.74%
66.28%
86.56%
79.03%
2070
787
ByteTrack
90.88%
88.76%
89.80%
71.19%
88.60%
80.32%
1193
564
TrackFormer
89.94%
70.40%
78.98%
54.90%
69.58%
70.86%
652
311
NTrack (ours)
93.28%
91.70%
92.49%
73.56%
89.25%
81.49%
1062
508
TABLE II: A comparison of NTrack against DeepSORT [6], Tracktor [16], ByteTrack [19], and TrackFormer [29]. The arrow directions
indicate the optimal metric values.
Method
MAPE↓
RMSE↓
Deep learning [40]
9.00%
9.00 (best case)
Geometric-feature-based [39]
15.04%
7.40
3D point cloud-based [41]
10.00%
16.87
NTrack (ours)
4.00%
4.73
TABLE III: Cotton boll counting error.
in a future frame thus fragmenting the track. The evaluation
was performed against the following state-of-the-art tracking
methods: DeepSORT [6], Tracktor [16], ByteTrack [19], and
Trackformer [29]. As shown in Table II, NTrack outperforms
these systems by a significant margin in the majority of the
metrics.
Our primary goal was to design a tracking system that
can count cotton bolls with high accuracy. Thus, by design
NTrack should perform better in ID preserving performance
metrics. Nevertheless, our tracker outperforms other methods
in localization measures as well. In addition, NTrack demon-
strates its overall superiority by exceeding others in the HOTA
measure, which explicitly balances the effect of performing
accurate detection, association, and localization into a single
unified metric. To avoid data labeling inconsistencies near the
frame border, we considered the ground truth and hypothesis
bounding boxes that do not overlap with the frame margin.
More specifically, we consider 200 pixels on both sides of a
frame as the margin.
C. Cotton Boll Counting Evaluation
Determining the number of unique cotton bolls in a given
video sequence was a prime requirement in designing NTrack.
Therefore, when creating the tracker we focused on main-
taining the true identity of the bolls. As shown in Table III,
the counting results show that NTrack performs exceptionally
well at the counting task when compared to other cotton
boll counting methods. These results are based on the mean
absolute percentage error (MAPE) and root mean square error
(RMSE), which are defined as
MAPE = 1
n
n
X
i=1
|Cgt −Ch|
Cgt
,
(11)
RMSE =
v
u
u
t 1
n
n
X
i=1
(Cgt −Ch)2.
(12)
In (11) and (12), Cgt and Ch are the number of unique cotton
bolls detected manually (i.e., the ground truth) and by NTrack
in the ith video sequence, respectively, and n is the number of
video sequences. The results reported for the other methods
in Table III are taken from their respective papers since the
datasets and source code are not publicly available.
Table IV shows the performance of NTrack against state-
of-the-art tracking techniques. The results in Table IV were
obtained from experiments done with the same test dataset
(TexCot22) and protocol. NTrack outperformed all of the
other methods. It is interesting to note that TrackFormer,
which is based on a transformer architecture, was able to
track cotton bolls more consistently than NTrack in terms
of ID switching and fragmentation (Table II). Nevertheless,
TrackFormer’s counting error (8%) is twice that of NTrack
(4%).
To demonstrate that the difference in counting performance
reported in Table IV is statistically significant, we conducted
hypothesis testing. Specifically, we performed one-sided paired
t-tests against the other tracking techniques. The null hypoth-
esis of the test is the assumption that the mean counting error
of NTrack is greater than or equal to other methods, i.e.,
H0 : µn ≥µx.
(13)
Conversely, the alternative hypothesis is the assumption that
the mean counting error of NTrack is less than the other
methods, i.e.,
Ha : µn < µx.
(14)
In (13) and (14), µn and µx are the mean counting errors of
NTrack and the other techniques (e.g., DeepSORT, Tracktor,
ByteTrack, and TrackFormer), respectively. The test results
(p-values) in Table V demonstrate that we can reject the null
hypothesis at a significance level of α = 0.05 in favor of the
alternative hypothesis. In other words, with 95% confidence
we can conclude that the test data provides sufficient evidence
to support the observation that NTrack’s mean counting error
is lower than the other methods.
D. Qualitative Evaluation
We conducted a qualitative analysis of NTrack against the
trackers in the evaluation set. The first two rows, from the
top of Fig. 7, show the tracking outcomes of NTrack and
DeepSORT on a test video sequence. In row 2, the arrow
highlights the track of a specific cotton boll with an ID of
83. DeepSORT fails to track this boll between frame 122
and frame 177 as indicated by the red arrow. At frame
177, DeepSORT cannot reidentify the previously seen cotton
boll (ID 83) and it erroneously assigns a new ID (ID 142).
Similarly, Tracktor (row 3, ID 57), and ByteTrack (row 4, ID
60) also fail to track the same cotton boll. TrackFormer (row
5) does not even detect the cotton boll in frames 80 and 122.
However, NTrack (row 1) successfully tracks this boll (ID 33)
and assigns the same ID in frame 177.
8

Sequence
GT
NTrack (ours)
DeepSORT
Tracktor
ByteTrack
TrackFormer
Count
Error %
Count
Error %
Count
Error %
Count
Error %
Count
Error %
vid09 01
66
66
0
115
74
220
233
77
17
58
12
vid09 02
72
80
11
146
103
234
225
90
25
74
3
vid09 03
72
67
4
105
46
208
189
78
8
62
14
vid14 01
95
102
7
233
145
396
317
123
29
103
8
vid23 01
60
56
7
136
127
187
212
93
55
57
5
vid23 02
50
46
8
64
28
136
172
52
4
49
2
vid23 03
96
95
1
140
46
223
132
101
5
88
8
vid25 01
68
67
1
80
18
119
75
72
5
64
6
vid25 02
73
72
1
103
41
184
152
88
21
57
22
vid25 03
61
60
2
69
10
111
10
62
2
62
2
vid26 01
51
51
0
86
69
134
163
60
18
53
4
vid26 02
66
67
1
79
20
120
82
69
5
59
11
vid26 03
66
69
5
82
24
126
91
71
8
71
8
Mean Error
4
55
163
15
8
TABLE IV: The accuracy of NTrack against DeepSORT [6], Tracktor [16], ByteTrack [19], and TrackFormer [29] is shown by comparing
the ground truth (GT) cotton boll counts with the estimated counts.
ByteTrack
DeepSORT
Tracktor
TrackFormer
NTrack
0.003945
0.001769
0.000027
0.033470
TABLE V: The hypothesis testing results on the mean cotton boll
counting error. For each column, we report the test result between
NTrack and the competing method in terms of the p-value.
Fig. 8 shows additional qualitative tracking results in a
more challenging scenario involving wind. In this scene, a
cotton boll (ID 4 in rows 1, 2, 4, ID 7 in row 3, ID 17 in
row 5) is occluded for an extended period after frame 54.
When the cotton boll reappears in frame 113, it is successfully
reidentified by NTrack (row 1). In contrast, DeepSORT and
ByteTrack assign a new ID (ID 123 and ID 69 in rows 2 and 4,
respectively) to the boll. Tracktor and TrackFormer are unable
to detect the cotton boll (rows 3 and 5, respecitively). These
observations demonstrate the effectiveness of our tracking
system in reidentifying cotton bolls, especially in the field
under harsh environmental conditions.
We also qualitatively evaluated NTrack by way of vi-
sual appearance-based re-identification of cotton bolls across
a video sequence. Examples where appearance-based re-
identification fails are shown in Fig. 9. The similarity scores
in Fig. 9 are calculated using the cosine similarity between a
pair of appearance descriptors (ri, rj) [6]. Concretely,
cosine similarity(ri, rj) =
r⊤
i rj
||ri|| · ||rj||,
(15)
where ||ri|| = ||rj|| = 1. (15) outputs a real number in the
range [0, 1]. Identical cotton bolls have a cosine similarity
score of 1, while distinct bolls have a score of 0.
In the TexCot22 dataset, we hypothesize that all tracking
methods that depend on visual appearance to reidentify objects
after reappearing will fail to maintain true identity. This
is based on the observation that re-identification techniques
exploited by many popular tracking methods (e.g., [50]) tend
to differentiate objects using color and shape as distinctive
features. However, individual cotton bolls have a homogeneous
color and shape distribution. Furthermore, the appearance of a
cotton boll changes drastically due to the shift in perspective
after being occluded for a few frames. Even for an experienced
Method
Linear
motion
Dynamic
motion
RLA
IDF1↑
MOTA↑
IDsw↓
Baseline
✓
90.3
88.9
3682
NTrack motion
✓
92.2
89.3
264
NTrack N1
✓
✓
92.5
89.5
101
NTrack N3
✓
✓
92.8
89.5
85
NTrack N5
✓
✓
92.8
89.4
85
TABLE VI: A comparison of the impact of integrating different
modules into NTrack against a ByteTrack [19] baseline. NTrack N1,
NTrack N3, NTrack N5 model use 1, 3, and 5 neighbors respectively,
in the RLA module.
human, it is challenging to reidentify these reappearing cotton
bolls. Nevertheless, NTrack can successfully reidentify the
bolls (i.e., assign the same ID).
E. Ablation Study
To analyze our system design choices, we decoupled and
validated the performance impact of each of NTrack’s mod-
ules. Table VI shows the contributions of the various modules
when compared against a ByteTrack [19] baseline. The overall
performance of NTrack gradually improved upon integrat-
ing each module. The baseline system uses a Kalman filter
for motion prediction and an effective association method
to reidentify objects. When compared to the baseline, our
dynamic motion model improved the IDF1 score by 2%. The
combined model, NTrack motion (baseline + dynamic motion
model), also reduced the counting error by a large amount.
This supports the hypothesis that for small objects (e.g., fruits,
flowers, etc.) that move irregularly in the wild, a dynamic
motion model is preferable for tracking.
We designed the RLA module specifically for identifying
occluded cotton bolls. Our experiments show that the RLA
module serves its purpose very well. In particular, NTrack
achieved the highest scores on the IDF1, MOTA, and IDsw
metrics when the RLA module was combined with the dy-
namic motion model. Although there was only a 0.6% gain in
the IDF1 score due to the addition of the RLA module, the
improvement is significant since there are few occluded bolls
in a video sequence when compared to the total number of
bolls. The number of neighbors (e.g, 1, 3, or 5) in the RLA
module was empirically selected for these experiments.
9

Fig. 7: The first scenario qualitative comparison between NTrack and the competing methods on the TexCot22 [11] dataset. From top to
bottom, each row (NTrack, DeepSORT [6], Tracktor [16], ByteTrack [19], and Trackformer [29]) shows the tracking performance of the
different techniques on the same video sequence. The numbers (80, 122, 177) at the top-left corner of each image portray the frame number
in the corresponding video sequence. Correct and incorrect associations between cotton bolls are illustrated by the green and red arrows,
respectively. The numbers at the top-left corner of each bounding box report the identity of the associated cotton boll assigned by the tracker.
10

Fig. 8: The second scenario qualitative comparison between NTrack and the competing methods on the TexCot22 [11] dataset. From top
to bottom, each row (NTrack, DeepSORT [6], Tracktor [16], ByteTrack [19], and Trackformer [29]) shows the tracking performance of the
different techniques on the same video sequence. The numbers (10, 54, 133) at the top-left corner of each image portray the frame number
in the corresponding video sequence. Correct and incorrect associations between cotton bolls are illustrated by the green and red arrows,
respectively. The numbers at the top-left corner of each bounding box report the identity of the associated cotton boll assigned by the tracker.
11

(a) Similarity score: 0.015
(b) Similarity score: 0.016
(c) Similarity score: 0.011
(d) Similarity score: 0.021
Fig. 9: NTrack re-identification results. Each column shows the same set of cotton bolls. The bottom row shows the bolls after being occluded
for several frames. The bounding box colors represent the true identity of the objects and the IDs (e.g., b25, b49, etc.) at the bottom left
corner of the bounding boxes are assigned by NTtrack. To highlight the poor performance of visual similarity, each column is accompanied
with a cosine similarity score calculated between the green bounding boxes. The correspondences between the bounding box colors and IDs
illustrates that NTrack can successfully reidentify cotton bolls without visual similarity.
VI. CONCLUSION
In this paper we described NTrack, a relative location-based
MOT system that enables accurate tracking of cotton bolls
in outdoor field environments. NTrack is able to robustly
maintain object identity and it can reidentify objects after
long periods of occlusion, which is a common scenario in
agricultural applications. What’s more, we introduced Tex-
Cot22, the first infield cotton boll video dataset. Using this
dataset, NTrack was evaluated against other contemporary
MOT techniques and shown to significantly outperform all of
them in identity preserving metrics. In future work, we will
extend our framework to incorporate multiple view tracking
data in order to further improve the automated counting of
infield cotton bolls.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The data collected for the research results reported within
this paper was done in collaboration with Texas Tech Uni-
versity and the Texas A&M AgriLife Research and Extension
Center’s Halfway Station. The authors acknowledge the Texas
Advanced Computing Center (TACC) at The University of
Texas at Austin for providing software, computational, and
storage resources that have contributed to these results.
REFERENCES
[1] USDA-ERS-1, “Cotton & wool overview,” 2023, available Online: https:
//www.ers.usda.gov/topics/crops/cotton-wool/.
[2] National Cottonseed Products Association, 2023, available Online: https:
//www.cottonseed.com/.
[3] M. Reynolds and P. Langridge, “Physiological breeding,” Current Opin-
ion in Plant Biology, vol. 31, pp. 162–171, 2016.
[4] X. Zhou, B. English, C. Boyer, R. Roberts, J. Larson, D. Lambert,
M. Velandia, L. Falconer, S. Martin, K. Larkin, K. Paudel, A. Mishra,
R. Rejesus, C. Wang, S. E, and J. Reeves, “Precision farming by cotton
producers in fourteen southern states: Results from the 2013 southern
cotton farm survey,” Research Series, pp. 15–001, 2015.
[5] F. Yu, W. Li, Q. Li, Y. Liu, X. Shi, and J. Yan, “Poi: Multiple object
tracking with high performance detection and appearance feature,” in
Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer Vision. Springer,
2016, pp. 36–42.
[6] N. Wojke, A. Bewley, and D. Paulus, “Simple online and realtime
tracking with a deep association metric,” in Proceedings of the IEEE
International Conference on Image Processing, 2017, pp. 3645–3649.
[7] Z. Wang, L. Zheng, Y. Liu, Y. Li, and S. Wang, “Towards real-time
multi-object tracking,” in Proceedings of the European Conference on
Computer Vision.
Springer, 2020, pp. 107–122.
[8] D. Koller, J. Weber, and J. Malik, “Robust multiple car tracking with
occlusion reasoning,” in Proceedings of the European Conference on
Computer Vision.
Springer, 1994, pp. 189–196.
[9] M. Betke, E. Haritaoglu, and L. S. Davis, “Real-time multiple vehicle
detection and tracking from a moving vehicle,” Machine Vision and
Applications, vol. 12, no. 2, pp. 69–83, 2000.
[10] J. R. Mauney, “Vegetative growth and development of fruiting sites,”
Cotton Physiology, pp. 11–28, 1986.
[11] M. A. Al Muzaddid and W. J. Beksi, “Texcot22,” 2023. [Online].
Available: https://doi.org/10.18738/T8/5M9NCI
[12] W. Luo, J. Xing, A. Milan, X. Zhang, W. Liu, and T.-K. Kim, “Multiple
object tracking: A literature review,” Artificial Intelligence, vol. 293, p.
103448, 2021.
[13] L. Zhang, Y. Li, and R. Nevatia, “Global data association for multi-
object tracking using network flows,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2008, pp. 1–8.
[14] C. Huang, B. Wu, and R. Nevatia, “Robust object tracking by hierarchi-
cal association of detection responses,” in Proceedings of the European
Conference on Computer Vision.
Springer, 2008, pp. 788–801.
[15] B. Yang, C. Huang, and R. Nevatia, “Learning affinities and dependen-
cies for multi-target tracking using a crf model,” in Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition,
2011, pp. 1233–1240.
[16] P. Bergmann, T. Meinhardt, and L. Leal-Taix´e, “Tracking without bells
and whistles,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference
on Computer Vision, 2019, pp. 941–951.
[17] G. Bras´o and L. Leal-Taix´e, “Learning a neural solver for multiple object
tracking,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2020, pp. 6247–6257.
[18] Y. Zhang, C. Wang, X. Wang, W. Zeng, and W. Liu, “Fairmot: On the
fairness of detection and re-identification in multiple object tracking,”
International Journal of Computer Vision, vol. 129, no. 11, pp. 3069–
3087, 2021.
[19] Y. Zhang, P. Sun, Y. Jiang, D. Yu, F. Weng, Z. Yuan, P. Luo, W. Liu,
and X. Wang, “Bytetrack: Multi-object tracking by associating every
detection box,” in Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer
Vision.
Springer, 2022, pp. 1–21.
[20] L. Leal-Taix´e, M. Fenzi, A. Kuznetsova, B. Rosenhahn, and S. Savarese,
“Learning an image-based motion context for multiple people tracking,”
in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition, 2014, pp. 3542–3549.
[21] A. Bewley, Z. Ge, L. Ott, F. Ramos, and B. Upcroft, “Simple online and
realtime tracking,” in Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference
on Image Processing, 2016, pp. 3464–3468.
[22] H. W. Kuhn, “The hungarian method for the assignment problem,” Naval
Research Logistics Quarterly, vol. 2, no. 1-2, pp. 83–97, 1955.
[23] K. Okuma, A. Taleghani, N. d. Freitas, J. J. Little, and D. G. Lowe, “A
boosted particle filter: Multitarget detection and tracking,” in Proceed-
12

ings of the European Conference on Computer Vision.
Springer, 2004,
pp. 28–39.
[24] Y. Li, H. Ai, T. Yamashita, S. Lao, and M. Kawade, “Tracking in low
frame rate video: A cascade particle filter with discriminative observers
of different life spans,” IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and
Machine Intelligence, vol. 30, no. 10, pp. 1728–1740, 2008.
[25] W. Choi, “Near-online multi-target tracking with aggregated local flow
descriptor,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference
on Computer Vision, 2015, pp. 3029–3037.
[26] J. H. Yoon, M.-H. Yang, J. Lim, and K.-J. Yoon, “Bayesian multi-object
tracking using motion context from multiple objects,” in Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF Winter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision,
2015, pp. 33–40.
[27] A. Mauri, R. Khemmar, B. Decoux, N. Ragot, R. Rossi, R. Trabelsi,
R. Boutteau, J.-Y. Ertaud, and X. Savatier, “Deep learning for real-
time 3d multi-object detection, localisation, and tracking: Application
to smart mobility,” Sensors, vol. 20, no. 2, p. 532, 2020.
[28] C. Godard, O. Mac Aodha, M. Firman, and G. J. Brostow, “Digging
into self-supervised monocular depth estimation,” in Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision, 2019, pp.
3828–3838.
[29] T. Meinhardt, A. Kirillov, L. Leal-Taix´e, and C. Feichtenhofer, “Track-
former: Multi-object tracking with transformers,” in Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition,
2022, pp. 8844–8854.
[30] F. Porikli, O. Tuzel, and P. Meer, “Covariance tracking using model up-
date based on lie algebra,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, vol. 1, 2006, pp. 728–735.
[31] D. Mitzel and B. Leibe, “Real-time multi-person tracking with detector
assisted structure propagation,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Inter-
national Conference on Computer Vision Workshops, 2011, pp. 974–981.
[32] W. Choi and S. Savarese, “A unified framework for multi-target tracking
and collective activity recognition,” in Proceedings of the European
Conference on Computer Vision.
Springer, 2012, pp. 215–230.
[33] C. Hung, J. Underwood, J. Nieto, and S. Sukkarieh, “A feature learning
based approach for automated fruit yield estimation,” in Field and
Service Robotics.
Springer, 2015, pp. 485–498.
[34] S. W. Chen, S. S. Shivakumar, S. Dcunha, J. Das, E. Okon, C. Qu, C. J.
Taylor, and V. Kumar, “Counting apples and oranges with deep learning:
A data-driven approach,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, vol. 2,
no. 2, pp. 781–788, 2017.
[35] P. Roy and V. Isler, “Surveying apple orchards with a monocular
vision system,” in Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference
on Automation Science and Engineering, 2016, pp. 916–921.
[36] N. H¨ani, P. Roy, and V. Isler, “Apple counting using convolutional neural
networks,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/RSJ International Conference on
Intelligent Robots and Systems, 2018, pp. 2559–2565.
[37] M. Afonso, H. Fonteijn, F. S. Fiorentin, D. Lensink, M. Mooij, N. Faber,
G. Polder, and R. Wehrens, “Tomato fruit detection and counting in
greenhouses using deep learning,” Frontiers in Plant Science, p. 1759,
2020.
[38] R. Kirk, M. Mangan, and G. Cielniak, “Robust counting of soft
fruit through occlusions with re-identification,” in Proceedings of the
International Conference on Computer Vision Systems.
Springer, 2021,
pp. 211–222.
[39] S. Sun, C. Li, A. H. Paterson, P. W. Chee, and J. S. Robertson, “Image
processing algorithms for infield single cotton boll counting and yield
prediction,” Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, vol. 166, p.
104976, 2019.
[40] D. Tedesco-Oliveira, R. P. da Silva, W. Maldonado Jr, and C. Zerbato,
“Convolutional neural networks in predicting cotton yield from images
of commercial fields,” Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, vol.
171, p. 105307, 2020.
[41] S. Sun, C. Li, P. W. Chee, A. H. Paterson, Y. Jiang, R. Xu, J. S. Robert-
son, J. Adhikari, and T. Shehzad, “Three-dimensional photogrammetric
mapping of cotton bolls in situ based on point cloud segmentation and
clustering,” ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, vol.
160, pp. 195–207, 2020.
[42] G. Farneb¨ack, “Two-frame motion estimation based on polynomial
expansion,” in Proceedings of the Scandinavian Conference on Image
Analysis.
Springer, 2003, pp. 363–370.
[43] P. Bromiley, “Products and convolutions of gaussian probability density
functions,” Tina-Vision Memo, vol. 3, no. 4, p. 1, 2003.
[44] A. Milan, L. Leal-Taix´e, I. Reid, S. Roth, and K. Schindler, “Mot16: A
benchmark for multi-object tracking,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1603.00831,
2016.
[45] Z. Cai and N. Vasconcelos, “Cascade r-cnn: Delving into high quality
object detection,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2018, pp. 6154–6162.
[46] G. Bradski, “The opencv library.” Dr. Dobb’s Journal: Software Tools
for the Professional Programmer, vol. 25, no. 11, pp. 120–123, 2000.
[47] J. Luiten, A. Osep, P. Dendorfer, P. Torr, A. Geiger, L. Leal-Taix´e,
and B. Leibe, “Hota: A higher order metric for evaluating multi-object
tracking,” International Journal of Computer Vision, vol. 129, no. 2, pp.
548–578, 2021.
[48] E. Ristani, F. Solera, R. Zou, R. Cucchiara, and C. Tomasi, “Performance
measures and a data set for multi-target, multi-camera tracking,” in
Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer Vision. Springer,
2016, pp. 17–35.
[49] K. Bernardin and R. Stiefelhagen, “Evaluating multiple object tracking
performance: the clear mot metrics,” EURASIP Journal on Image and
Video Processing, vol. 2008, pp. 1–10, 2008.
[50] N. Wojke and A. Bewley, “Deep cosine metric learning for person re-
identification,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Winter Conference on
Applications of Computer Vision, 2018, pp. 748–756.
Md Ahmed Al Muzaddid received the B.S. de-
gree in computer science and engineering from the
Bangladesh University of Engineering and Tech-
nology. He is currently pursing the Ph.D. degree
with the Department of Computer Science and En-
gineering, The University of Arlington at Texas. His
research interests include computer vision, machine
learning, and agricultural automation.
William J. Beksi (Member, IEEE) received the
B.S. degree in mathematics and computer science
from Stevens Institute of Technology in 2002, and
the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of
Minnesota in 2016 and 2018, respectively. He is
currently an Assistant Professor in the Department
of Computer Science and Engineering at The Uni-
versity of Arlington at Texas, where he also leads
the Robotic Vision Laboratory. His research interests
include robot perception, human-robot interaction,
and autonomous systems.
13
