ROLS : Robust Object-level SLAM for grape counting
Anjana K Nellithimaru, George A Kantor
Carnegie Mellon University
anjanak@andrew.cmu.edu , kantor@ri.cmu.edu
Abstract
Camera based Simultaneous Localization and Mapping
(SLAM) in an agricultural ﬁeld can be used by crop grow-
ers to count fruits and estimate yield. It is challenging due
to dynamics, illumination conditions and limited texture in-
herent in an outdoor environment. We propose a pipeline
that combines the recent advances in deep learning with
traditional 3D processing techniques to achieve fast and ac-
curate SLAM in vineyards. We use images captured by a
stereo camera and their 3D reconstruction to detect objects
of interest and divide them into classes: grapes, leaves and
branches. The accuracy of these detections is improved by
leveraging information about objects’ local neighborhood
in 3D.
We achieve a F1 score of 0.977 with ground truth grape
counts from images. Our method builds a dense 3D model
of the scene with a localization accuracy in centimeters
without any assumption of constant illumination conditions
or scene dynamics. This method can be easily generalized
to other crops such as oranges and apples with minor mod-
iﬁcations in the pipeline.
1. Introduction
Modelling and mapping outdoor agricultural environ-
ments has applications ranging from crop monitoring to
yield estimation, especially in a high value crop like grapes.
Characterization at plant level is very important to track the
dynamics of crop development. Producing 30,000 dollars
worth of produce per acre, grapes are often the beachhead
industry for modernization. Because of the large scale ex-
tent of a typical vineyard as seen in Figure 1, a periodic
and exhaustive manual measurement of plant characteris-
tics is inaccurate and time consuming. Over the past years,
it is largely done by interpolating the measurements from
coarsely sub sampled fractions of the vineyard. This results
in a poor estimation as growth patterns may vary across the
vineyard due to factors such as soil characteristics, incident
radiation angle, light interception and irrigation practises.
Recently, several researchers have focused on develop-
ing both airborne and ground based robotic solutions to high
throughput phenotyping. Among them, cameras prove to
be a low cost solution as opposed to its counterparts such
as LIDAR, ultrasonic sensors and hyperspectral cameras.
In addition, cameras provide additional information such as
color and access to ﬁner structures.
Figure 1. Aerial view of a vineyard depicts the large scale nature
of plant modeling and grape counting in vineyards
Figure 2. Left: Closeup view of the vineyard.
Right Imaging
equipment with camera and air blower
To accurately model plant structures using a camera,
high-quality 3D reconstruction/mapping of the environment
is necessary.
However, it is challenging because of the
dynamics, like the movements of leaves due to wind, and
changing illumination conditions based on cloud cover and
self shadow often present in an outdoor environment. Clas-
sical 3D reconstruction and mapping approaches such as
Structure from motion (SfM), Multi-View Stereo (MVS),
ORB-SLAM often fail when used individually due to lack
of texture in the scene or presence of dynamic objects and
repetitive structures. Interestingly, recent advances in deep

learning frameworks are able to detect and track objects
even with dynamics and changing illumination. Although
these frameworks are presumed to require a large amount
of training data, by carefully designing the cost function, a
framework such as Mask R-CNN [7] can be made to detect
instances of new objects, say grapes, given a small number
of labeled images.
We propose a camera based SLAM solution to accurately
count grapes by leveraging the information from 2D as well
as 3D. We demonstrate our approach on stereo images col-
lected from a camera and air blower setup mounted on a
ground vehicle shown in Figure 2. The air blower is at-
tached below the camera to move leaves and increase fruit
visibility in dense canopy regions. We adapt Mask R-CNN
[7] to perform instance segmentation of grapes in images
and develop a module that computes instance segmentation
masks in parallel to generating disparity based point cloud.
Instance masks are propagated to 3D to generate several
regions of interest (ROIs) in 3D. At each of these ROIs,
Singular Value Decomposition (SVD) is performed at three
different scales. Based on the SVD outputs, ROIs are re-
grouped to include any point belonging to grape class that
was missed earlier.
Merging SVD results with masks not only improves the
accuracy of classiﬁcation of points into grapes and non-
grapes but also demarcates leaves from branches. We itera-
tively ﬁt shapes to these classes and use it to estimate frame-
to-frame transformation. The beneﬁt of using ﬁtted shapes
is twofold. Firstly, it is robust to the dynamics introduced in
the scene by leaf blower where other feature/intensity based
SLAM techniques will perform poorly. Secondly, it limits
the number of landmarks to the number of parameterized
shapes thereby decreasing the optimization time for SLAM.
By tuning the segmentation module and reparameterizing
the shape ﬁtting, this solution can be extended to other va-
rieties of fruits/vegetables without any hassle.
2. Related work
As our work spans across different domains such as fruit
detection and classiﬁcation of plant parts, SLAM, instance
segmentation, and 3D reconstruction, we divide this section
accordingly.
Several camera-based systems are present in the litera-
ture which perform phenotyping tasks such as fruit detec-
tion, leaf area measurement and yield estimation. Classiﬁ-
cation of grapevines into branches, leaves and grapes with
an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.94 has been achieved us-
ing color and shape features along with conditional random
ﬁeld by [5]. They use feature based SfM for 3D reconstruc-
tion which consumes signiﬁcant time and is prone to accu-
mulate drift and feature correspondence errors. They also
require a large dataset with labels in 3D and cannot identify
instances of grapes separately for the purpose of counting.
A set of custom image ﬁlters and transforms have been de-
veloped in [3] to detect shoot and leaves in vineyard, but
they do not focus on 3D modeling or fruit detection.
There are different image-based algorithms to detect
fruits and estimate yield which assume the scene to be static.
A fruit counting pipeline which combines image segmenta-
tion, frame to frame tracking, and 3D localization to count
visible fruits is presented in [11]. They achieve a count er-
ror of around 3% mean and 4% standard deviation for ap-
ples. [16] detect and count grapes from images using shape
and visual texture features. Although they can predict yield
within 9.8% of actual crop weight, it involves calibrating
their counts based on ground truth count over a small sam-
ple of vineyard. [17] present a keypoint based algorithm
to detect round fruits like apples and grapes from images
which achieves a F1 score of 0.82.
Current state-of-the-art SLAM systems like ORB-
SLAM2 [13], LSD-SLAM [6] do not leverage semantic in-
formation. DeepSLAM [4] aims at ﬁnding a small set of
geometrically stable point features from images that can be
directly used in SLAM. However, recent advances in object-
detectors and semantic mapping networks have made it pos-
sible for researchers to use classiﬁcation, detection and seg-
mentation in SLAM [2, 12, 15, 19]. Semantic SfM [2] uses
points, object detections and semantic regions to impose
geometrical constraints on estimation of camera and object
pose.
Fusion++ [12] presents an object-level SLAM for indoor
scene understanding. It fuses instance segmentation with
Truncated Signed Distance Functions (TSDF) presented in
Kinect Fusion [14]. Although they use Mask-RCNN based
object detections as landmarks, they do not consider the de-
tection accuracy. Their method is applicable to static in-
door scenes and requires computationally expensive opti-
mization and re-localization steps when the TSDF is reset.
SLAM++ [19] is another object-level SLAM framework
where objects are detected, tracked and mapped in real-time
in a dense RGB-D framework which can identify and ignore
dynamics in the scene. However, it requires a database of
well deﬁned 3D models of the objects to refer to, and it calls
for creation of such a database ofﬂine.
QuadricSLAM [15] is another object-oriented SLAM
system that estimates camera pose and object pose simul-
taneously from noisy odometry and object detection bound-
ing boxes. It incorporates state-of-the art deep learning ob-
ject detectors as sensors to build surfaces in 3D space called
“quadrics” by combining object detections from multiple
views. Quadrics act as 3D landmarks and provide a com-
pact representation that approximates an objects position,
orientation and shape. Performance of this algorithm will
be poor in a cluttered scene such as ours where the bound-
ing boxes for grapes will signiﬁcantly overlap on each other.
For instance segmentation of grapes, we considered both

Figure 3. Visualization of our pipeline. Inputs are stereo images shown on the left. Data ﬂows from left to right and is represented by gray
arrows. Green arrows indicate the outputs at each stage. Final outputs are Dense 3D map, camera trajectory (in red) and ﬁnal grape count
which are at the right end of the pipeline.
image and 3D classiﬁers. Fully Convolutional Network [9]
and Mask R-CNN [7] identify objects of interest in an im-
age and provide the location of all the pixels belonging to
that object. Capsule network [27] is a family of neural net-
works which explicitly models the spatial relationship be-
tween objects in an image. Replacing the feature points
with these instance masks to ﬁnd correspondence not only
brings down the dimensionality of state-space but improves
the quality of dense reconstruction. In addition, they gen-
erate a multi-resolution map, where regions have resolu-
tions based on object size. SplatNET [22] is another net-
work architecture which performs spatially-aware feature
learning, as well as joint 2D-3D reasoning. While Mask
R-CNN is currently the state-of-the art in 2D instance seg-
mentation, 3D networks such as PointNet [18] perform ob-
ject classiﬁcation and part segmentation from unstructured
point clouds. PointFusion [25] is another 3D object detec-
tion method that intelligently fuses both image based and
point cloud based object detectors to predict 3D bounding
boxes.
All of these 3D segmentation techniques require exten-
sive training data. No such training data readily available
for vineyards, and labeling point clouds is not feasible at
such a scale. Moreover, grapes cannot be assigned a pre-
deﬁned 3D shape as most of the grapes are partially visible
either due to self occlusion or due to lack of different cam-
era views resulting in 2.5 dimensional shape. Folding Net
[26] on the other hand does unsupervised learning with end-
to-end deep auto-encoder. Although this seems promising
to use in a low training data setup, it will fail to perform in
our case where the canopy does not have a predeﬁned 3D
shape.
3. Method
We present a method that combines features and ideas
from the literature to create an end-to-end vineyard map-
ping pipeline. Speciﬁc contributions of this paper are:
• Combination of image features and local shape infor-
mation from 3D to improve accuracy of plant structure
classiﬁcation.
• Simplifying SLAM by using shapes ﬁtted in 3D as
object-level features.
• End-to-end pipeline for accurately counting grapes.
Figure
3 gives a visualization of our approach where gray
arrows represent data ﬂow and green arrows represent the
outputs. 3D reconstruction module and instance segmen-
tation module run in parallel by taking stereo images and
left image as inputs respectively. Masks generated by the
instance segmentation module are projected onto the 3D
model constructed using disparity. This information ﬂows
to the SVD module which further improves classiﬁcation
and generates labels for plant structures. Spheres are ﬁt
to the SVD output and passed to SLAM module. SLAM
module stitches consecutive point clouds based on corre-
spondence between ﬁtted shapes to build a dense map and
estimate camera trajectory. Grape counts are obtained from

3D model given out by SLAM and are reprojected to im-
age space to compare with image-wise ground truth count.
Grape count after every step is also given out to perform
ablation experiments detailed in section 4.3 .
3.1. 3D reconstruction
We use point clouds to represent the 3D proﬁle of the
scene. As the goal here is to model the plant and classify
its structures, a dense point cloud is necessary. Therefore,
a disparity-based method is needed as opposed to modern
SIFT and SURF based correspondence matchers for 3D re-
construction. Looking at the taxonomy of stereo matching
algorithms in [20, 23], we found that Semi-Global Matching
best serves our purpose. The algorithms calculates the dis-
parity for each pixel in the left image where matching cost
calculation is based on Mutual Information (MI) which is
insensitive to recording and illumination changes. We refer
readers to [8] for further details.
Figure 4. Left : Input image (histogram equalized for visualiza-
tion) Right: Disparity map colored based on depth from the cam-
era where red indicates points are closer to camera and blue indi-
cates the points are away from camera.
3.2. Instance segmentation
We chose Mask R-CNN [7] for instance segmentation af-
ter experimenting with various network architectures. The
network conﬁguration was selected empirically by training
and analyzing the test results and are listed in Table 1. We
created a training and validation dataset to ﬁne-tune the pre-
trained Mask R-CNN. We observed that the segmentation
network performs well when the object of interest occu-
pies at least 5% of the image. Hence, 9MP RGB images
were divided into tiles of 256X338 size which contained
0-20 grapes each. Up-down and left-right image augmenta-
tions were used on these tiles to increase the size of dataset.
Grapes closer to the camera were labeled and tiny grapes
captured from background rows were ignored so that the
network learns to detect grapes present on the nearer side of
the row. Retraining the network head that was pre-trained
on MS-COCO dataset [10] using this grape dataset gave the
expected results as shown in Figure 5. We refer readers to
[1] for implementation details.
Parameters
Values
Backbone layer
ResNet 50
Head layer
Faster R-CNN
Input size
256X338
Anchor ratio
[0.5,1,2]
Learning rate
0.007
Epochs
200
Steps per epoch
100
RPN anchor scale
[16,32,64,128]
Avg grape size in pixels
50X50
Augmentation
LR, UD ﬂip
Training images
62 image segments
Validation set
7 image segments
Table 1. Network parameters for instance segmentation of grapes
using Mask R-CNN
Figure 5. Top: Left:
Input image equalized for visualization
Right: Instance masks overlayed on input. Bottom: Left: Input
image showing grapes of varying pixel size equalized for visual-
ization. Right: Midpoints of masks marked in red on a histogram
equalized image for better visualization
3.3. Singular Value Decomposition
We use SVD to characterize the local neighborhood
around each 3D point in terms of its ‘pointness’, ‘curveness’
and ‘surfaceness’. If the local neighborhood is compact and
spatially isotropic then it corresponds to grape berry. A dis-
tribution with a single dominant axis of spatial variation cor-
responds to branch and a distribution with two axes of varia-
tion corresponds to leaves. We store the point cloud in a k-d
tree, which enables fast lookup of the local neighborhood
around each point. We perform the following operations
for each point p obtained by picking the center of instance
segmentation masks projected to 3D:

• Retrieve points within a distance of d and store it in N,
a k x 3 matrix where k is the number of points in the
neighborhood.:
N = {pi : ∥p −pi∥< d}
• Compute the co-variance matrix CN for every N:
CN = 1
k
k
X
i=1
(pi −p)(pi −p)T
where p denotes the mean of the 3D points in N.
• Perform SVD on all CN.
• Analyze the top three singular values (λ3 ≤λ2 ≤λ1)
to identify the number of dominant directions:
λ3 = λ2 = λ1 −→isotropic spatial distribution
λ3 = λ2 << λ1 −→linear distribution
λ3 << λ2 = λ1 −→planar distribution
• Generate saliency feature for every point
saliencyp =


grape
branch
leaf

=


λ3
λ1 −λ2
λ2 −λ3


We perform the above steps at three different neighborhood
sizes to obtain a 9X1 feature vector. These features are used
to train a Transductive Support Vector Machine (TSVM)
that can classify point cloud into plant structures.
TSVM is a semi-supervised learning algorithm that
makes use of unlabeled data for training. We chose this
particular classiﬁer as it is able to achieve a high accuracy
with a dataset that has only 20% labelled and 80% unla-
belled data. Let w be the weight vector and xi ∈R9 be
the input feature vector and yi ∈{−1, 1} be the output.
Let r be the fraction of labeled examples that belong to the
positive class. TSVM minimizes the objective function of
linear Support Vector Machines (SVM) by adding an ad-
ditional term to drive the classiﬁer away from high-density
regions:
min
w,y′
j
u
j=1
λ
2 ||w||2 + 1
2l
l
X
i=1
l(yiwT xi) + λ′
2u
u
X
j=1
l(y′wT x′
j)
(1)
subject to 1
u
u
X
j=1
max[0, sign(wT x′
j)] = r
where l(z) = max(0, 1 −z) is the hinge loss function,
λ is the regularization parameter and λ′ is a tunable pa-
rameter that controls the inﬂuence of unlabeled data. We
build on the SVM toolbox implemented in [21] to achieve
multi-class TSVM classiﬁcation.
We refer the user to
[21] for further details on TSVM and its implementation.
TSVM estimates a label yi ∈{1, −1} where {1,-1} corre-
sponds to {grape, non-grape} classes respectively for every
point. Points belonging to non-grape class are again passed
through TSVM to get leaf vs branch classiﬁcation.
3.4. Sphere ﬁtting
We ﬁt spheres to grapes and use them as object features
for SLAM. A sphere is deﬁned by its centre (x0, y0, z0)
and radius r. If a point (xi, yi, zi) lies at a distance r from
(x0, y0, z0) , then it is on the surface of the sphere. Here, we
ﬁt spheres to the points which were classiﬁed as grape by es-
timating r, x0, y0, z0 using M-estimator SAmple Consensus
(MSAC) algorithm [24]. MSAC is a variant of RANdom
SAmple Consensus (RANSAC) which iteratively estimates
the parameters of a sphere by choosing a set of points that
minimize the cost function :
n
X
i=1
[(xi −x0)2 + (yi −y0)2 + (zi −z0)2 −r2)]
(2)
subject to (xi −x0)2 + (yi −y0)2 + (zi −z0)2 −r2) ≤d
d, the maximum allowable error per point, and the number
of iterations are set empirically. Range of the radius, r, and
the regions for search are provided from the ROIs that were
obtained by projecting instance segmentation masks to 3D
and reﬁned by SVD module. For every predicted grape,
MSAC estimates the corresponding parameters and ﬁts a
sphere. After ﬁtting every sphere, the points belonging to
it are removed from the point cloud so that the MSAC does
not incorrectly use same subset of points to ﬁt two different
spheres.
Fitting a parameterized model such as a sphere has mul-
tiple beneﬁts. Firstly, it provides a compact high level repre-
sentation that naturally aids map compression in large-scale
mapping. Secondly, it provides higher-level descriptions of
the object geometry which provides a closed form solution
to data association problem.
3.5. Simultaneous Localization and Mapping
Gps data is accurate only upto sub meters and is often not
reliable in an agricultural ﬁeld due to occlusions. Hence,
registering images and grapes to each other calls for a lo-
calization method with an accuracy in sub-centimeter range.
Our SLAM module ﬁnds the 6 DOF camera position and in-
crementally stitches point cloud frames into a 3D map with
sub-centimeter accuracy. A world frame with origin at the
starting point of the camera, and a current frame with the
origin at the current camera location are maintained. We

use a 4X3 transformation matrix to represent the camera
pose and also to transform the current frame to world frame.
The state-of-the-art methods to estimate the transforma-
tion between two frames either involve probabilistic esti-
mation or error minimization techniques such as Iterative
Closest Point (ICP). ICP alignment has the problem of low
efﬁciency in large data sets. Using ﬁtted shapes instead of
raw points reduces the amount of data and overcomes this
problem.
Input
to
the
SLAM
module
is
the
point
cloud
of
ﬁtted
spheres.
Given
two
point
clouds
ﬁxed,
F=
{f1, f2, ...., fn}, fi
∈
R3
and moving,
M=
{m1, m2...., mn}mi ∈R3, ICP ﬁnds a rotation matrix R
and a translation vector t such that error between trans-
formed moving cloud and ﬁxed cloud is minimum. We take
advantage of the fact that if the correct correspondences
between F and M are known, R and t can be calculated
in closed form. We experiment with two variants of ICP
point-to-point and point-to-plane. In both the cases, rotation
matrix is represented in quaternion form and is converted
to linear approximation problem. Although point-to-plane
ICP takes more time per iteration due to added cost of nor-
mal computation, it converges in fewer iterations. Hence,
we chose point-to-plane ICP for our pipeline.
3.5.1
Point-to-plane ICP
In this variant of ICP, R and t are iteratively estimated to
minimize the distance between every point mi and the tan-
gent plane at its corresponding point fi. Tangent plane is
represented by its unit normal ni computed around a small
3D neighborhood with 50 points around the point fi.
min
R,t
k
X
i=1
(|(Rmi + t −fi)T n|2)
(3)
This provides a more accurate estimation in cases where
one point cloud is denser than the other and exact corre-
spondences are sparse.
The transformation parameters given out by ICP is con-
verted to global frame to get camera trajectory and dense 3D
model. Grape counts are obtained from this 3D model and
are reprojected to image space using the estimated camera
poses in world frame to get ﬁnal grape count per image.
4. Experiments
4.1. Dataset
Data was collected from a vineyard in Delano, Califor-
nia in July 2018. An air blower was attached below the
camera to blow leaves occluding the grapes to increase vis-
ibility. This blowing causes movement in the leaves and
introduces dynamics to the scene. Images were taken using
two 9MP PointGrey cameras with a 0.22m baseline which
was mounted on a ﬁeld vehicle. Consecutive images in a
given sequence overlap by at least 50% in the dataset at any
time and overlap more than 85% when the leaf blower is on.
Images were collected from more than 20 rows with each
row being 187m long, comprised of 70-80 vines captured in
about 750 images. Experiments were conducted with and
without the blower whose results are separately reported.
4.2. Main results
Grape counts were re-projected onto images and com-
pared with the grapes manually counted from images. We
obtained an average precision of 0.9662, recall of 0.9881
and F1 score of 0.977. For a randomly selected group of
20 consecutive images, an R2 correlation of 0.9989 was
achieved. Figure 6 shows the plot of ﬁnal grape count es-
timated from 20 consecutive images re-projected to images
against the ground truth grape count from those images.
With the assumption that the plants were planted in a
straight line, we interpolated the gps location of starting and
ending points of the row to test the localization accuracy.
Dense 3D SLAM output obtained from 20 consecutive im-
ages is shown in Figure 9 (a) along with the straight line in
green and camera trajectory in red. Mean square error was
calculated using the deviation of stitched model from the
straight line at every frame and was found to be 20cm for a
run of 187m.
400
500
600
700
800
actual
400
500
600
700
800
900
predicted
400
500
600
700
800
actual
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
8
predicted
Figure 6. Left: Plot of grape count estimated by our pipeline
against ground truth grapes for 20 consecutive images Right:
Residual error plot for the same.
4.3. Ablation experiments
We ran ablation experiments to demonstrate the impor-
tance of each module in the pipeline.
4.3.1
Mask R-CNN
If we remove the instance segmentation part from our
pipeline, the SVD module will have to choose random ROIs
and classify them into grape, branch and leaf. We experi-
mented with different strategies to pick ROI: random selec-
tions, voxel grid, uniform distribution and color based. All
of these strategies result in only a fraction of grapes being

selected as ROI. This leads to noisy transformation estima-
tions which keep compounding and results in a poor map.
4.3.2
SVD
Roles of the SVD module are to reduce the false positive
grape detections and to classify non-grape points into leaf
and branch. We examined the spheres ﬁtted onto ROIs pro-
jected from instance segmentation directly by skipping the
SVD module. Since ROIs from Mask R-CNN often overlap
or cover lesser number of pixels than expected, this either
results in multiple spheres being ﬁtted to one grape or one
sphere ﬁtted to multiple grapes. This behaviour is shown in
Figure 7 where multiple spheres intersect on the grape.
Figure 7. Left: Raw image. Center: Predicted masks. Right:
Snapshot showing sphere overlapping as a result of overlapping
and inaccurate instance mask predictions. Fitted spheres in blue
are overlapped on original point cloud with grapes.
Removing the SVD module reduces the pipeline to
an end-to-end network which estimates grape centres and
transformations from stereo image inputs. Although this
sounds promising because of the proven performance of
3D segmentation networks in the literature, we expect it
to require a large amount of labelled 3D data to reach our
pipeline’s level of accuracy and is left for future work.
4.3.3
Sphere ﬁtting
Sphere ﬁtting acts as a landmark extractor for SLAM. It re-
duces the complexity of SLAM module to iterative ﬁtting
of point clouds. In ideal conditions, when the segmenta-
tion module produces non-overlapping masks with perfect
boundaries and completely static scene, this module can be
replaced by a tracking estimator such as optical ﬂow. We
observed that decreasing the number of iterations of MSAC
reduces the accuracy of ﬁtted spheres and leads to poor reg-
istration of point clouds in SLAM module. When we re-
moved this module and used ROI along with a mean radius
guess to obtain a sphere, we saw that the false positives re-
mained and occluded grapes were missed as shown in Fig-
ure 8.
5. Timing
We summarize module wise time requirements in Table
3. All the modules were tested on a 6 core i7 processor.
Instance segmentation network and 3D point classiﬁer were
Figure 8. 3D snapshots showing Left: Raw point cloud with grapes
Right: Spheres drawn with guessed radius and ROI centres instead
of iterative MSAC of sphere ﬁtting module
trained on a GeForce GTX 1080 Ti GPU. Implementations
are done in C++ using OpenCV and PCL libraries.
Module
Time
Nearest neighbour
0.02 ms per ROI
SVD
0.15 ms per ROI
TSVM classiﬁcation
1 ms per frame
Sphere ﬁtting
0.1 ms per sphere
SLAM
1 ms per frame
Mask R-CNN training
10 hours
TSVM training
2 minutes
Table 2. Module wise time requirements for testing and training
6. Comparisons
We compare our ﬁtted shape based SLAM method
against ICP on raw point cloud and feature-point based SfM
and show them in Figure 9. In the sub-ﬁgures a and b, green
line represents the expected straight line in which the plants
must lie. It is obtained by interpolating start and end gps
points of the row. Red box represents the camera positions.
Map built by applying Point-to-plane ICP on raw point
cloud is shown in Figure 9 (b) where grape vines are seen
drifting from the expected line shown in green.
Feature based SfM was ran using SIFT, SURF and cor-
ner features and the best result is shown in Figure 9 (c). We
observed that in every frame, strongest of these features al-
ways lied on leaf corners shown in Figure 9 (c) Left and
gave wrong feature correspondences as shown in Figure 9
(c) Right. We ran ORB-SLAM2 on our dataset and found
the map to be too sparse to extract any information regard-
ing grapes.
7. Discussion
We presented a camera based end-to-end pipeline to
build a dense 3D model of a vineyard and count grapes.
Our pipeline makes use of 3D characteristics of a point in
addition to semantic information from images to improve
the accuracy. The process of estimating transformation is

(a) SLAM output from our pipeline
(b) SLAM model obtained using ICP on raw point cloud
(c) Left: Detected SURF features marked in red. Right: Feature matching between images where yellow dotted line represents matches
between red feature points in left image and green points in right image.
Figure 9. Comparisons of SLAM model built from 15 consecutive images using different techniques. Green line indicates the ground truth
position of the base of point cloud which was obtained by connecting the gps coordinates of starting and ending point of the plant row. Red
points are camera position outputs. All point clouds are down-sampled and ﬁltered for visualization purpose.
made robust and efﬁcient by using object-level representa-
tion instead of feature points. As every part of the pipeline
except instance segmentation is independent of the sensor
used to acquire data and the type of fruit, this method can
be extended to other fruit types such as apples, oranges, and
other sensor types by just retraining the instance segmenta-
tion module which is left to future work. Another direction
of future work is to generate maps based on gps location of
start and end point of rows and overlay it on latest satellite
images to get an overview of grape distribution in the ﬁeld.
8. Acknowledgements
Authors would like to thank Stephen Nuske for technical
assistance, Abhisesh Silwal, Zania Pothen, Omeed Mirbod,
Tanvir Parhar, Harjatin Baweja and Tevon Walker for assis-
tance in data collection.

References
[1] W. Abdulla.
Mask r-cnn for object detection and in-
stance segmentation on keras and tensorﬂow. https://
github.com/matterport/Mask_RCNN, 2017. 4
[2] S. Y.-Z. Bao, M. Bagra, Y.-W. Chao, and S. Savarese. Se-
mantic structure from motion with points, regions, and ob-
jects. 2012 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pat-
tern Recognition, pages 2703–2710, 2012. 2
[3] H. S. Baweja, T. Parhar, and S. Nuske. Early-season vineyard
shoot and leaf estimation using computer vision. In 2017
ASABE Annual International Meeting, St. Joseph, Michigan
www.asabe.org, November 2017. American Society of Agri-
cultural and Biological Engineers. 2
[4] D. DeTone, T. Malisiewicz, and A. Rabinovich. Toward Ge-
ometric Deep SLAM. CoRR, abs/1707.07410, 2017. 2
[5] D. Dey, L. Mummert, and R. Sukthankar. Classiﬁcation of
plant structures from uncalibrated image sequences. IEEE
Workshop on the Applications of Computer Vision (WACV),
pages 329–336, Jan 2012. 2
[6] J. Engel, J. Stckler, and D. Cremers.
Large-scale direct
slam with stereo cameras. In 2015 IEEE/RSJ International
Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), pages
1935–1942, Sep. 2015. 2
[7] K. He, G. Gkioxari, P. Doll´ar, and R. B. Girshick. Mask
R-CNN. CoRR, abs/1703.06870, 2017. 2, 3, 4
[8] H. Hirschmuller. Accurate and efﬁcient stereo processing
by semi-global matching and mutual information. In 2005
IEEE Computer Society Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition (CVPR’05), volume 2, pages 807–814
vol. 2, June 2005. 4
[9] Y. Li, H. Qi, J. Dai, X. Ji, and Y. Wei.
Fully con-
volutional instance-aware semantic segmentation.
CoRR,
abs/1611.07709, 2016. 3
[10] T. Lin, M. Maire, S. J. Belongie, L. D. Bourdev, R. B.
Girshick, J. Hays, P. Perona, D. Ramanan, P. Doll´ar, and
C. L. Zitnick. Microsoft COCO: common objects in context.
CoRR, abs/1405.0312, 2014. 4
[11] X. Liu, S. W. Chen, S. Aditya, N. Sivakumar, S. Dcunha,
C. Qu, C. J. Taylor, J. Das, and V. Kumar. Robust fruit count-
ing: Combining deep learning, tracking, and structure from
motion. CoRR, abs/1804.00307, 2018. 2
[12] J. McCormac, R. Clark, M. Bloesch, A. J. Davison, and
S. Leutenegger. Fusion++: Volumetric Object-Level SLAM.
CoRR, abs/1808.08378, 2018. 2
[13] R. Mur-Artal and J. D. Tard´os. ORB-SLAM2: An Open-
Source SLAM System for Monocular, Stereo, and RGB-D
Cameras. IEEE Trans. Robotics, 33(5):1255–1262, 2017. 2
[14] R. A. Newcombe, S. Izadi, O. Hilliges, D. Molyneaux,
D. Kim, A. J. Davison, P. Kohi, J. Shotton, S. Hodges, and
A. Fitzgibbon. Kinectfusion: Real-time dense surface map-
ping and tracking. In 2011 10th IEEE International Sympo-
sium on Mixed and Augmented Reality, pages 127–136, Oct
2011. 2
[15] L. Nicholson, M. Milford, and N. S¨underhauf.
Quadric-
SLAM: Constrained Dual Quadrics from Object Detections
as Landmarks in Semantic SLAM. CoRR, abs/1804.04011,
2018. 2
[16] S. T. Nuske, S. Achar, T. Bates, S. G. Narasimhan, and
S. Singh. Yield estimation in vineyards by visual grape de-
tection. In Proceedings of the 2011 IEEE/RSJ International
Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS ’11),
September 2011. 2
[17] Z. Pothen and S. T. Nuske.
Texture-based fruit detection
via images using the smooth patterns on the fruit. In IEEE
conference on Robotics and Automation, May 2016. 2
[18] C. R. Qi, H. Su, K. Mo, and L. J. Guibas. PointNet: Deep
Learning on Point Sets for 3D Classiﬁcation and Segmenta-
tion. CoRR, abs/1612.00593, 2016. 3
[19] R. F. Salas-Moreno, R. A. Newcombe, H. Strasdat, P. H. J.
Kelly, and A. J. Davison. SLAM++: Simultaneous Locali-
sation and Mapping at the Level of Objects. In CVPR, pages
1352–1359. IEEE Computer Society, 2013. 2
[20] D. Scharstein, R. Szeliski, and R. Zabih. A taxonomy and
evaluation of dense two-frame stereo correspondence algo-
rithms. In Proceedings IEEE Workshop on Stereo and Multi-
Baseline Vision (SMBV 2001), pages 131–140, Dec 2001. 4
[21] V. Sindhwani and S. S. Keerthi. Large scale semi-supervised
linear svms. In Proceedings of the 29th Annual International
ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in In-
formation Retrieval, SIGIR ’06, pages 477–484, New York,
NY, USA, 2006. ACM. 5
[22] H. Su, V. Jampani, D. Sun, S. Maji, E. Kalogerakis, M. Yang,
and J. Kautz. SPLATNet: Sparse Lattice Networks for Point
Cloud Processing. CoRR, abs/1802.08275, 2018. 3
[23] F. Tombari, F. Gori, and L. D. Stefano. Evaluation of stereo
algorithms for 3d object recognition. In 2011 IEEE Inter-
national Conference on Computer Vision Workshops (ICCV
Workshops), pages 990–997, Nov 2011. 4
[24] P. H. S. Torr and A. Zisserman. MLESAC: A new robust esti-
mator with application to estimating image geometry. Com-
puter Vision and Image Understanding, 78:138–156, 2000.
5
[25] D. Xu, D. Anguelov, and A. Jain.
PointFusion:
Deep
Sensor Fusion for 3D Bounding Box Estimation.
CoRR,
abs/1711.10871, 2017. 3
[26] Y. Yang, C. Feng, Y. Shen, and D. Tian. FoldingNet: Inter-
pretable Unsupervised Learning on 3D Point Clouds. CoRR,
abs/1712.07262, 2017. 3
[27] D. Zou and P. Tan. Coslam: Collaborative visual slam in dy-
namic environments. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis
and Machine Intelligence, 35(2):354–366, Feb 2013. 3
