Ni et al. Horticulture Research (2020) 7:110 
Horticulture Research
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41438-020-0323-3
www.nature.com/hortres
A R T I C L E
Op e n A c c e s s
Deep learning image segmentation and extraction
of blueberry fruit traits associated with
harvestability and yield
Xueping Ni1,2, Changying Li
2, Huanyu Jiang1 and Fumiomi Takeda3
Abstract
Fruit traits such as cluster compactness, fruit maturity, and berry number per clusters are important to blueberry
breeders and producers for making informed decisions about genotype selection related to yield traits and
harvestability as well as for plant management. The goal of this study was to develop a data processing pipeline to
count berries, to measure maturity, and to evaluate compactness (cluster tightness) automatically using a deep
learning image segmentation method for four southern highbush blueberry cultivars (‘Emerald’, ‘Farthing’,
‘Meadowlark’, and ‘Star’). An iterative annotation strategy was developed to label images that reduced the annotation
time. A Mask R-CNN model was trained and tested to detect and segment individual blueberries with respect to
maturity. The mean average precision for the validation and test dataset was 78.3% and 71.6% under 0.5 intersection
over union (IOU) threshold, and the corresponding mask accuracy was 90.6% and 90.4%, respectively. Linear regression
of the detected berry number and the ground truth showed an R2 value of 0.886 with a root mean square error (RMSE)
of 1.484. Analysis of the traits collected from the four cultivars indicated that ‘Star’ had the fewest berries per clusters,
‘Farthing’ had the least mature fruit in mid-April, ‘Farthing’ had the most compact clusters, and ‘Meadowlark’ had the
loosest clusters. The deep learning image segmentation technique developed in this study is efﬁcient for detecting
and segmenting blueberry fruit, for extracting traits of interests related to machine harvestability, and for monitoring
blueberry fruit development.
Introduction
Southern highbush (SHB) blueberries (a group of hybrid
cultivars developed from crossing Vaccinium corymbosum
L., V. darrowi Camp, and other Vaccinium species indi-
genous to southeastern United States) are adapted to
areas with mild winters. SHB blueberry production in
tropical and subtropical environments has become an
economically important crop in Florida, North Carolina,
and Georgia in the Southeastern United States as well in
California, Mexico, Peru, Australia, northern Chile, and
North Africa. At present, most SHB blueberries destined
for the fresh market are still hand harvested, but they also
are harvested mechanically during the latter part of the
season when it is no longer economical to harvest by
hand1. Mechanically harvested fruit may either go to the
fresh or processed market depending on the cultivar and
condition of the fruit. To reduce labor costs, blueberry
growers in Florida and Georgia, in other production areas
across the United States, and in major blueberry produ-
cing countries are showing an increasing interest in
adopting mechanical harvesters for harvesting blueberries
intended for the fresh market2,3. Among the many plant
and fruit characteristics that blueberry breeders evaluate
in a cultivar intended for mechanical harvest are plant
vigor, a narrowly upright plant canopy, and a ﬁrm fruit
with a dry scar4. In addition, fruit should be produced in a
© The Author(s) 2020
OpenAccessThisarticleislicensedunderaCreativeCommonsAttribution4.0InternationalLicense,whichpermitsuse,sharing,adaptation,distributionandreproduction
in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons license, and indicate if
changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article’s Creative Commons license, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If
material is not included in the article’s Creative Commons license and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain
permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.
Correspondence: Changying Li (cyli@uga.edu) or Huanyu Jiang
(hyjiang@zju.edu.cn)
1College of Biosystems Engineering and Food Science, Zhejiang University,
Hangzhou, China
2College of Engineering, University of Georgia, Athens, GA, USA
Full list of author information is available at the end of the article
1234567890():,;
1234567890():,;
1234567890():,;
1234567890():,;

loose cluster along with concentrated ripening5. Compact
or tight fruit clusters make it difﬁcult to selectively harvest
ripe fruit among immature fruit in a cluster either by hand
or machine.
In grapes, fruit maturation among bunches (e.g., clus-
ters) vary, but the individual berries on a bunch ripen
uniformly. Table grapes are harvested as bunches in sev-
eral pickings, and in wine and raisin grapes all bunches
are harvested in an once-over picking operation. Many
studies have used the International Organization of Vine
and Wine (OIV) descriptor6 to classify differences in
grape cluster compactness, which is nevertheless still a
subjective method for dealing with all aspects of grape
production. There are also many objective methods to
quantify compactness. Tello et al.7 used a quantitative
grape compactness index (CI13), which is calculated as
the ratio of the berry volume over the square of rachis
length. Cubero et al.8 deﬁned the ratio of the square of the
berry perimeter over the berry area of the grape bunch for
bunch compactness and found that a smaller perimeter
with the same area would be more compact. The peri-
meters and areas of grape bunches were extracted from
2D images. Rist et al.9 compared the correlation of ﬁve
different
factors
with
the
OIV
grape
compactness
descriptor, including (a) the ratio of the number of berries
and grape length, (b) the ratio of total berry volume and
the sum of the grape length and grape width, (c) the ratio
of berry volume and grape length, (d) the difference of
convex hull volume and total berry volume, and (e) the
ratio of convex hull volume and the sum of grape length
and grape width. They found that the order from the
highest correlation to the lowest was factor (b), (c), (a), (e),
and (d). All the parameters in these ﬁve factors were
extracted from the 3D grape bunch point cloud using a
3D scanner. Hed et al.10 used the number of berries per
centimeter of rachis as a grape compactness index.
However, these methods did not provide high throughput
and required signiﬁcant manual operations.
In blueberries, there is a large variation in fruit
maturation among clusters, fruit within a cluster, and
among branches of the bush. This means that mature fruit
must be harvested selectively after each fruit develop a
blue color. Therefore, evaluating the maturity of indivi-
dual blueberry fruit can provide valuable information for
determining the best harvesting time. Number counting
and cluster tightness are also important in the blueberry
industry and can be used to estimate yield and harvesting
strategy. Thus, an automated method to characterize
these three traits (compactness, maturity, and count) and
present the analysis would be a valuable tool for blueberry
breeders as well for blueberry growers.
Compactness is an important index for quantifying the
tightness of blueberry clusters. Schwartze et al.11 reported
that small and loose clusters ripened more evenly and
were easier to hand harvest than those with long and tight
clusters. During mechanical harvesting, blueberries on a
loose cluster in response to external vibration can oscillate
about its pedicel in three ways (swing, tilt, and rotate)1. In
contrast, blueberries in a tight cluster would not oscillate,
as each fruit is pressed against two or three berries. It can
be inferred that loose blueberries are more suitable for
mechanical
harvesting
when
other
factors
are
the
same5,12. However, there is currently no ofﬁcial blueberry
compactness deﬁnition, and only a few related studies
have appeared. Brightwell13, for instance, deﬁned three
levels of compactness for blueberry clusters: compact,
medium compact, and loose. The compact clusters are
those in which all berries touch each other and in which
the ﬁrst ripe berry is difﬁcult to pick, either by hand or
with a machine. The medium compact clusters are those
in which most berries are touched by two or more fruits
and the ﬁrst ripe berry is difﬁcult to dislodge. The loose
clusters are those in which most berries may or may not
be touching other berries and are easy to pick. Brightwell’s
deﬁnition, however, is subjective and difﬁcult to quantify.
A solution for automatic compactness extraction is,
therefore, necessary and desirable for blueberry breeding
programs
and
increasing
production
and
harvest
efﬁciency.
Previous
literature
has
shown
that
although
the
maturity of blueberry fruits is deﬁned by their color,
maturity deﬁnitions have differed. Gilbert et al.14 classiﬁed
blueberry fruits into four different developmental stages:
(A) green, (B) breaker, (C) red, and (D) blue. El Agamy
et al.15 deﬁned more stages according to the fruit color: (a)
green-mature, (b) green + 25% pink, (c) 50% pink, (d) 75%
pink, (e) pink, (f) bluish pink (pink + 50% blue), (g) 75%
blue, (h) blue, and (i) blue-black, in which the maturity
stage (h) is for commercial picking and stage (i) is beyond
commercial handling. Kalt et al.16 studied the relationship
between surface color and other maturity indices (size,
sugar, acid, and anthocyanin contents). The results
showed that sugar content was highly correlated with the
surface color, indicating that the surface color can
represent the berry’s maturity. Yang et al.17 showed the
spectral differences among young fruits (green color),
intermediate fruits (red color), and mature fruits (dark
blue/purple). In all these studies, the fruit maturity index
was assigned to individual blueberries. For this paper, the
individual berry maturity property was classiﬁed and then
the maturity ratio of the whole branch was calculated.
Various traditional methods have been used for berry
detection and classiﬁcation. One popular method has
been to use the spectral properties of blueberries. Yang
et al.18 measured spectral reﬂectance of blueberry leaves,
mature fruits, near-mature fruits, near young mature
fruits, and young fruits for different cultivars. Classiﬁca-
tion models were established, and the model achieved
Ni et al. Horticulture Research (2020) 7:110 
Page 2 of 14

more than 98% accuracy for all leaves and fruits. However,
the application of this method is too limited, as it only can
be used for indoor research with artiﬁcial lighting and
under a cover that blocks out ambient light to distinguish
leaves and different maturities of blueberries. One of our
goals was to segment individual blueberries and assess
individual fruit maturity and cluster maturity indices
when capturing RGB (red, green, and blue) images
outdoor.
As a deep learning technique, convolutional neural
networks (CNNs) have shown great promise for image
classiﬁcation, object detection, and segmentation19. One
successful application of CNN is using semantic seg-
mentation to classify objects on images at the pixel level20.
Since Papandreou et al.20 proposed semantic image seg-
mentation using CNN achieving a mean intersection over
union (mIOU) of over 70% on PASCAL Visual Object
Classes (VOC) 2012 dataset, many other models have
been developed. Long et al.21 proposed a fully convolu-
tional network (FCN), whose output images have the
same resolution as input images while achieving an mIOU
of 62.2% on PASCAL VOC dataset. FCNs were then
improved in some advanced models. U-Net22 was devel-
oped based on an FCN with data augmentation, achieving
an mIOU of over 92% on the biomedical dataset with very
few training images. However, U-Net segments all objects
as a union mask when Mask R-CNN can predict objects
as individual masks. Mask R-CNN23 combines Faster R-
CNN24 and FCN and can achieve a higher accuracy than
when only using FCN. DeepLab25 was developed to deal
with multiple scales of objects (objects with different
sizes) without reducing the resolution and produced an
mIOU of 79.7% on PASCAL VOC-2012. DeepLabv326
and DeepLabv3+27 were developed by improving Dee-
pLab and achieved an mIOU of 85.7% and 89% on PAS-
CAL VOC-2012, respectively. FastFCN28 proposed a joint
pyramid up-sampling that can extract high resolution
feature maps three times faster without performance
losses. Semantic segmentation for videos was also devel-
oped achieving an mIOU of 83.5% on a Cityscapes dataset
and 82.9% on the Cambridge-driving Labeled Video
Database (CamVid) dataset29. For this paper, we used
Mask R-CNN to segment individual berries given its
superior performance.
Some semantic segmentation models have been used on
berry segmentation. Milella et al.30 used four different
CNNs to segment grape bunches, leaves, wood (grapevine
trunks, cordons, and canes), and vineyard grape poles
from the background in the RGB images and concluded
that using an VGG1931 network had the best perfor-
mance, with an accuracy of 91.52%. Santos et al.32 com-
pared Mask R-CNN23, YOLOv233, and YOLOv334 to
detect and segment grape bunches in the ﬁeld. However,
both studies segmented the whole grape bunch but not
individual berry segmentation to count berries. To detect
and segment individual grapes, Zabawa et al.35 used an
FCN21 to detect the edges of a single berry from color
images to obtain a single grape berry. Some studies35,36
have been conducted on individual grape detection and
segmentation using deep learning, but no study has been
done on blueberries that have a signiﬁcantly different
growth pattern and fruit characteristics from grapes.
Compared with grape detection, blueberry detection is
more challenging because the fruits spread throughout
the branches and the maturity of fruits in one branch can
differ even in one cluster.
The main goal of this study was to apply Mask R-CNN
for blueberry fruit segmentation to calculate harvestability
and yield traits. Speciﬁc objectives were to:
(1)
Segment individual berries using Mask R-CNN
with an iterative annotation method and evaluate
the classiﬁcation and segmentation performance.
(2)
Deﬁne
and
calculate
blueberry
maturity
and
compactness and count blueberry number per
clusters.
(3)
Assess the accuracy of the extracted traits and
delineate
trait
differences
in
four
blueberry
cultivars.
Results
Segmentation and trait extraction results
The trained berry detection model was used to segment
individual berries according to maturity and to extract
other relevant traits. Figure 1 shows four test images’
berry detection results. These images represent one of the
samples of each cultivar. The detected blueberry mask
with a minimum bounding box is also shown in the result.
The traits were calculated from the detection results.
Compared with the raw images, the mask accurately
covered the berries, including some berries that were only
partially visible behind the berries in the foreground. The
numbers
detected
for
‘Emerald’_049
and
‘Mea-
dowlark’_026 were identical with the ground truth in the
raw images. Both numbers detected for ‘Farthing’_053 and
‘Star’_079 were one berry less than the ground truth in the
raw images. The maturity of almost all berries was
detected
accurately
except
for
the
berry
in
‘Mea-
dowlark’_026, where a small part of the mature berry on
the back was detected as immature. Regarding compact-
ness, although there was no ground truth to assess the
accuracy of the image-derived values, the differences in
the compactness values of the four cultivars generally
matched with our visual intuition.
Detection and segmentation performance evaluation
To evaluate the performance of the detection model, the
mean average precision (mAP) and mIOU were calculated
and analyzed. The model of epoch 510 was selected,
Ni et al. Horticulture Research (2020) 7:110 
Page 3 of 14

because it had a relatively low validation loss. Under the
0.5 IOU threshold, the mAP of the validation dataset (145
images with thousands of berries) was 0.783 and 0.716 for
the test datasets (55 images with hundreds of berries).
From Fig. 2, it can be seen that with an IOU threshold
greater than 0.85, the mAP was lower than 0.5 in both
datasets. When the IOU threshold equaled 0.95, mAP was
close to zero for both the validation and test datasets
because many berries could not be detected with a high
IOU threshold. It is obvious that a higher IOU threshold
results in higher precision but with fewer detected objects.
In many cases, researchers have used the IOU threshold
of 0.5 to calculate average precision (AP). Because com-
pactness was calculated from the mask area and minimum
bounding box area (determined by the mask), it was
necessary to evaluate mask accuracy. The mIOU was used
to indicate the berry mask accuracy further for better
compactness accuracy. The mIOU of the validation
dataset and test dataset were 0.906 and 0.904 with an IOU
threshold of 0.5, respectively, which indicated that 90.6%
and 90.4% of the berry mask areas match the ground truth
for the validation and test dataset, respectively.
Iterative annotation performance
Inferencing of 20 images by both Model_2 (the model
trained by 88 images with generated annotation based on
Model_1, shown in Fig. 8) and Model_3 (the model
trained by 88 images with manual annotation based on
Fig. 1 Detection examples for each cultivar with traits extraction. The black rectangle contains the ID number and the three traits (number,
maturity, and compactness) within the corresponding sample
Ni et al. Horticulture Research (2020) 7:110 
Page 4 of 14

Model_1, shown in Fig. 8) conﬁrmed the accuracy of the
generated mask with manual corrections, while the
Model_1 was the initial model trained by 137 images with
manual annotation. The mAP and mIOU with epochs
during 501–600 of Model_2 and Model_3 with a 0.5 IOU
threshold are shown in Fig. 3. With different training
epochs, the results varied. Overall, the mAP of Model_3
was better than that of Model_2 in these epochs (Fig. 3a),
which meant that the detection and classiﬁcation accuracy
of Model_3 was better than that of Model_2 in most
epochs. However, it still can be seen that the mAP of
Model_2 was better than that of Model_3 in some epochs,
such as 505–509, 525, and 545–551. The result indicates
that using generated annotation with manual correction
could be as accurate as manual annotation. The highest
AP of Model_3 was 0.706 in epoch 553, while the highest
AP of Model_2 was 0.699 in epoch 546. The difference
between these two mAPs was 0.007, indicating that this
semi-annotation method was more accurate. Figure 3b
indicates that the mean IOU of Model_2 was higher than
that of Model_3 in all epochs, which meant that the mask
accuracy of Model_2 was higher than that of Model_3 in
these 20 testing images. However, the mIOU difference
was small (~0.004 in all epochs). In summary, using
iterative annotation proved to be a feasible time-saving
method37,38.
Fig. 2 Recall–precision curve of various models under different IOU thresholds. a Validation and b test datasets.
Fig. 3 Comparison of Model_2 and Model_3 for epoch 501–600 inferencing on 20 test images. a Mean average precision and b mean
intersection over union.
Ni et al. Horticulture Research (2020) 7:110 
Page 5 of 14

Blueberry traits analysis
The blueberry traits of 104 samples from four cultivars
(‘Emerald’, ‘Farthing’, ‘Meadowlark’, and ‘Star’) were
extracted using customized algorithms based on the berry
detection and segmentation results. The average values of
berry number, maturity, and compactness of ﬁve views
were used as the traits for the sample. It was determined
that all four cultivars were partly mature in mid-April.
The ‘Emerald’ had the largest average berry number per
branch among the four cultivars, almost twice that of the
‘Star’ cultivar (Table 1). The average berry number per
branch of the ‘Farthing’ cultivar was about one berry
lower than that of the ‘Emerald’. ‘Meadowlark’ was
between ‘Farthing’ and ‘Star’. In mid-April, the average
maturity of ‘Meadowlark’ was the highest while ‘Farthing’
was the lowest. The maturity of ‘Emerald’ and ‘Star’ was
slightly over 0.5, indicating that over half of the berries
were blue. The maturity of ‘Farthing’ was a little less than
0.5. The average compactness data showed that ‘Farthing’
had the most compact blueberry clusters, which suggests
that it is the most difﬁcult to harvest for the ﬁrst harvest
of the season and ‘Meadowlark’ is the easiest. These
results indicate that ‘Meadowlark’ and ‘Star’ are the least
compact and most mature, so they are ready to harvest.
However, the average value for all of the cultivars did not
represent a single case. It is necessary to do statistical
analysis for all of these blueberry traits for all four
cultivars.
The number of blueberries within a branch was eval-
uated with the ground truth, as the number can
potentially be used for yield prediction. Figure 4 shows
the linear regression for the detected number with the
manual counting number for all of the cultivars. Overall,
berry number by counting every segmented berries was
underestimated compared with the ground truth. This is
because not all of the blueberries can be seen in a single
2D image, and the error increased as the number of
berries increased because more berries became hidden
by fruit in the foreground. A linear model was obtained
between the ground truth and the detected number with
a coefﬁcient of determination (R2) of 0.886 and a root
mean square error (RMSE) of 1.484. The results of linear
regression analysis for the four cultivars compared with
the four cultivars combined are presented in Table 2.
‘Star’ had the highest R2 and the lowest RMSE. ‘Mea-
dowlark’ had the lowest R2 in comparison with the
ground truth. ‘Emerald’ had an R2 of 0.93 and the
highest RMSE, indicating that the linear model for
‘Emerald’ had the largest error. Compared with the
linear model for the four cultivars combined, all of the
linear models for a single cultivar had a lower RMSE.
‘Emerald’ and ‘Star’ had a higher R2 compared with the
four cultivars combined. The results suggest that the use
of single cultivar linear model is a better predicator of
blueberry number than the combined cultivar linear
model.
Statistical analyses revealed trait differences among
these four cultivars. The berry number per branch of ‘Star’
was signiﬁcantly lower than that of ‘Emerald’ and ‘Farth-
ing’, while that of ‘Emerald’, ‘Farthing’, and ‘Meadowlark’
were similar (Fig. 5a). ‘Star’ has a lower berry number per
branch than ‘Emerald’ and ‘Farthing’. The analysis for fruit
maturity indicated that ‘Meadowlark’ was further along in
the fruit maturation than the other three cultivars, as
shown by the greater number of blue fruit in a branch
(Fig. 5b). For compactness, only ‘Emerald’ and ‘Star’ have
no signiﬁcant difference. ‘Farthing’ has the highest com-
pactness, ‘Star’ and ‘Emerald’ are the second, and ‘Mea-
dowlark’ is the lowest (Fig. 5c). This indicates that
‘Meadowlark’ is the best cultivar among these four for
machine harvesting for the ﬁrst harvest of the season.
Discussion
Detection error
There are four main types of detection errors: one berry
detected as two, missed detection, two berries detected as
one, and partial detection, as illustrated in Fig. 6. For one
berry detected as two, the example shows a small part of a
berry wrongly detected as an individual berry and another
part of this berry detected as a separate berry. For missed
detection, some berries are occluded by the stem, leaves,
and other berries, and these berries are difﬁcult to be
detected even by human eyes. When two berries are not
separated clearly and one berry is partly covered by the
other berry, they are more likely to be detected as one
berry. For partial detection, most parts of the berry were
covered by two other berries and the visible part was
divided into two unconnected parts. Predictably this berry
was only detected partially and another visible part of this
berry was not detected, possibly because of the small area
that was visible to the camera. Because of this kind of
error, the mask accuracy was decreased. In other cases,
some leaves also were detected as immature berries. The
most probable reason for these inaccurate detections is
Table 1
Average traits extracted by the imaging method
for four cultivars.
Cultivar
Average berry
number
per bunch
Average
maturity
Average
compactness
‘Emerald’
13.861
0.528
0.595
‘Farthing’
12.897
0.477
0.647
‘Meadowlark’
11.394
0.651
0.514
‘Star’
8.534
0.574
0.574
The average traits refer to the average traits of 26 samples for each cultivar.
Ni et al. Horticulture Research (2020) 7:110 
Page 6 of 14

that there are many berries covered by each other,
resulting in only small parts of some berries being visible.
Although there were some detection errors caused by the
inherent limitation of the 2D images, the overall results
were promising (Fig. 1).
Maturity
One important reason for the classiﬁcation error is
inconsistency in maturity annotation. Figure 7 shows an
example of these inconsistencies, where berries in (Fig. 7a)
and (Fig. 7b) show a similar color, but berry in (Fig. 7a)
was labeled as immature, berry in (Fig. 7b) was labeled as
mature. Because of the inconsistency in annotation, the
trained model may have incorrectly detected the maturity
of berries. To make the maturity results become con-
sistent, some objective methods may be needed to
determine maturity. This study explored one objective
method. The color of each detected berry was extracted to
be represented as the berry color, but there were two
problems: (1) the images were taken outdoors and the
illumination of each image varied; and (2) the detected
berry mask might have contained some parts of other
berries. To solve these two problems, the Hue value (not
considering saturation and illumination) was used instead
of RGB color, and the boundary of every mask was
decreased by 10 pixels (to remove the background near
the boundary). Figure 7c shows the results of this method
used to assign maturity rating to ten berries on a branch.
The mature berries were No. 1, 2, 4, 9, and the immature
berries were No. 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 10. Hue value is an
objective method of determining berry maturity and is
superior to the subjective, visual annotation method.
Blueberry number and cluster number
The number of clusters on a blueberry branch is a factor
of compactness difference when cultivars have the same
blueberry number on a branch. A blueberry branch can
have several clusters, and each cluster has several blue-
berries. It is easy to distinguish loose clusters but difﬁcult
to distinguish compact clusters. In this way, blueberry
compactness of the entire branch is also affected by the
number of clusters. The blueberry branch would be more
compact if there were fewer clusters when the number of
blueberries is the same. However, it is also difﬁcult to
detect the cluster numbers on some cultivars. The cluster
number was recorded by destructive methods. The
Fig. 4 Linear regression of detected number with ground truth for all cultivars. Different markers represent different cultivars.
Table 2
Linear regression for four individual cultivars.
h
Linear model
R2
RMSE
‘Emerald’
y = 1.296 + 0.606 × x
0.932
0.715
‘Farthing’
y = 1.145 + 0.575 × x
0.877
0.548
‘Meadowlark’
y = 1.124 + 0.719 × x
0.859
0.693
‘Star’
y = 0.144 + 0.768 × x
0.934
0.359
Ni et al. Horticulture Research (2020) 7:110 
Page 7 of 14

average cluster numbers per branch of ‘Emerald’, ‘Farth-
ing’, ‘Meadowlark’, and ‘Star’ were recorded as 3.759,
2.678, 3.611, and 1.801, respectively. Combined with the
average compactness in Table 1 and Fig. 5c, it can be
inferred that the compactness of ‘Star’ was higher than
‘Meadowlark’, although there was no signiﬁcant difference
in the number of blueberries between them because the
average cluster number of ‘Star’ was only half that of
‘Meadowlark’. It also can be inferred that the compactness
of ‘Farthing’ is higher than ‘Emerald’ while they have no
signiﬁcant differences in berry number.
Harvestability traits
There are many factors affecting blueberry mechanical
harvestability, i.e., bush architecture, harvest time, and the
detachment difference of mature fruit and immature
fruit39,40. Compactness is one factor contributing to har-
vestability. The assumption in this paper, ‘less compact is
more suitable for mechanical harvesting,’ is based on
when other factors are the same and the harvest time is
speciﬁcally for the ﬁrst harvest of the season.
Maturity can be explained as harvestable. In this paper,
there are two indices used to describe fruit maturity. One
is for the individual berry maturity. Another is the
maturity ratio (mature berry number/total berry number)
for the whole clusters. Individual berry maturity can
indicate whether the berry is harvestable or not. The
cluster maturity ratio can indicate whether or not this
cultivar can start harvesting at a speciﬁc time.
Advantages and limitations
This study presents a deep learning model for individual
blueberry detection and segmentation for 2D images of
blueberries in situ in the ﬁeld. Furthermore, blueberry
harvestability and yield traits (berry number, maturity,
and
compactness)
were
extracted
directly.
Existing
methods cannot extract all of these traits, particularly
compactness for blueberries7,8,35,41. Although the traits
were extracted from 2D images, the analyses were per-
formed with ﬁve different views of clusters on a branch.
The use of multiple images of clusters for extracting traits
of interest eliminated potential outliers from one parti-
cular viewing angle. The berry count error was mainly
caused by occlusion, an inherent limitation with 2D
images. Therefore, it will be necessary to extract traits
from 3D images in the future9,42. In addition, the meth-
odology described in the present study was unable to
determine the contribution of pedicel length on cluster
tightness.
Conclusions
This study investigated a deep learning segmentation
model Mask R-CNN for segmenting individual blue-
berries and extracting harvestability and yield traits for 2D
Fig. 5 Statistical analysis of the traits with different cultivars. a
Total blueberry number within each branch. b Maturity. c
Compactness. Two cultivars with the same letter means they are in
the same group without signiﬁcant differences in that trait. The red
plus symbol represents the outliers of the dataset.
Ni et al. Horticulture Research (2020) 7:110 
Page 8 of 14

images of blueberries in situ in the ﬁeld. The classiﬁcation
accuracy (mAP) was better than 0.7 at an 0.5 IOU
threshold with a 0.9 segmentation accuracy (mIOU). The
blueberry numbers extracted from this model showed that
‘Star’ has a lower berry number, ‘Farthing’ is less mature
in the middle of April but is most compact, and ‘Mea-
dowlark’ is the loosest in comparison with the other three
cultivars. The trait of blueberry number have potential
applications for yield estimation with maturity. The
compactness analysis can be incorporated into a breeding
scheme in which genotypes are selected for machine
harvestability. In future studies, 3D imaging of individual
berries will be segmented to obtain more precise quanti-
ﬁcation of fruit and cluster traits.
Materials and methods
The study was conducted in two parts. Section ‘Indivi-
dual blueberry detection and segmentation’ involved the
development of detection and segmentation of blueberry
fruit for building a model for individual blueberries using
Mask R-CNN. Section ‘Blueberry traits extraction and
analysis’ included the extraction of blueberry fruit traits
based on this model. Two different image datasets were
collected. The dataset used in Section ‘Individual blue-
berry detection and segmentation’ was used for training to
obtain a blueberry segmentation model, which was split
into training, validation, and testing datasets. The dataset
in Section ‘Blueberry traits extraction and analysis’ are the
images used to extract blueberry traits based on the
Fig. 6 Four types of detection errors. They are one berry detected as two, missed detection, two berries detected as one, and partial detection,
respectively.
Fig. 7 An objective method to assess fruit maturity. a, b Inconsistency of annotation in maturity. a, b Appear similar color, but a was annotated as
immature, b was annotated as mature. c, d Blueberry maturity detection using Hue based on detected berries. c shows berries detected by the
detection model and d shows the maturity detection result using the Hue histogram. The horizontal axis in d is the Hue value and the vertical axis in
d is the percentage of the pixel number of corresponding Hue value. When 0 < Hue value < 30 or 150 < Hue value < 180, then deﬁned as mature.
Ni et al. Horticulture Research (2020) 7:110 
Page 9 of 14

segmentation model for the four different cultivars
(‘Emerald’, ‘Farthing’, ‘Meadowlark’, and ‘Star’).
Individual blueberry detection and segmentation
Image dataset
The Blueberry images were obtained under three dif-
ferent lighting conditions and backgrounds: (1) outdoor
lighting with a natural background (Fig. 8a), (2) outdoor
lighting
with
an
artiﬁcial
background
(cardboard)
(Fig. 7b), and (3) artiﬁcial lighting with an artiﬁcial
background (Fig. 8c). The image dataset produced 724
images: (1) A total of 524 images in the training dataset
(482 images with background A, 18 images with back-
ground B, and 24 images with background C), (2) 145
images in the validation dataset (126 images with back-
ground A, 9 images with background B, and 10 images for
background C), and 55 images in the testing dataset (30
images with background A, 20 images for background B
and 5 images for background C). The images of condi-
tions (Fig. 8a) and (Fig. 8b) were captured randomly on
commercial farms in Alma, Georgia, on April 17th, 2019.
Some blueberry bunches were cut and transported to the
lab in the University of Georgia. The images of condition
(Fig. 8c) were captured in the lab. The total number of
images used in the training was 669, which is the sum of
the training dataset and the validation dataset.
Image annotation
Images were annotated with three classes: background,
mature berry, and immature berry. Blue-colored berries
were labeled as mature berries. Green-, red-, or deep red-
colored berries were labeled as immature berries. A VGG
Image Annotator was used for image annotation, and
polygon was used to outline manually the boundaries of
individual blueberries. Initially, 137 images were anno-
tated manually to train a detection model (Model_1) with
image augmentation for 300 epochs. A semiautomatic
annotation method was used (Fig. 9) to make the anno-
tation more efﬁcient. The annotation of another 88
images was generated by pretrained Model_1. Then the
manual correction sought to verify the generated anno-
tation to correct misclassiﬁed and misaligned polygons,
and to annotate the berries that were not detected by
Model_1. To verify that this iterative annotation method
was efﬁcient, these 88 images were annotated manually as
well. It should be noted that generated annotation with
manual correction takes 1 h while fully manual annotation
takes 6 h. These 88 images annotated with different
methods were trained in the same manner as Model_1 to
obtain Model_2 and Model_3, respectively. The perfor-
mance of Model_2 and Model_3 were compared using 20
images with manual annotation. These 20 images were
taken from the images mentioned in Section ‘Blueberry
traits extraction and analysis’. Next, the remaining 444
image annotations were generated by Model_3 with manual
correction. The annotation used for the testing images was
also generated by Model_3 with manual correction.
Mask R-CNN based detection and segmentation pipeline
The implementation of Mask R-CNN in this paper
uses ResNet101 plus an FPN (feature pyramid net-
works) backbone to extract feature maps. The RPN
(region proposal network) was used to scan the back-
bone feature map, which reuses the extracted features
efﬁciently and avoided duplicated calculations to get
the region of interests (ROIs). The next step used an
ROI classiﬁer to classify regions to speciﬁc classes and
used a bounding box repressor to encapsulate the
object. The previous steps involved the implementation
of a Faster R-CNN24 for object detection. The following
step was the additional mask network of Mask R-CNN
to obtain the ﬁnal masks. The Mask R-CNN based
blueberry detection and segmentation pipeline is shown
in Fig. 10. The image dataset was fed to the Mask R-
CNN framework to obtain the detection model. We
used the detection model to detect and segment blue-
berries in the images with mature or immature prop-
erties. Next, the blueberry traits (number, maturity, and
Fig. 8 Three conditions of blueberry images for training. a With natural background, b with artiﬁcial background in the ﬁeld, and c with artiﬁcial
background in the lab. From left to right, blueberries developing on a branch are shown: a two or three clusters, b unable to determine the number
of clusters in situ by visual means, and c a branch with several clusters of blueberries.
Ni et al. Horticulture Research (2020) 7:110 
Page 10 of 14

Fig. 9 Annotation workﬂow. 137 and 88 images were manual annotated, the annotation of another 444 images were generated by Model_3 with
manual correction. The ﬁnal Training Model was used to segment blueberries on four cultivars.
Fig. 10 Mask R-CNN based blueberry detection and segmentation pipeline. There are three steps: the annotated images were used to train the
Mask R-CNN model, the trained model was used to predict test images, and the traits of fruit number, maturity, and compactness were extracted
from the predicted images.
Ni et al. Horticulture Research (2020) 7:110 
Page 11 of 14

compactness) were obtained automatically with custo-
mized deﬁnition and programs.
The training had speciﬁc conﬁgurations. There were
three classes: background, mature berry, and immature
berry. The training dataset had 524 images, the validation
dataset had 145 images, and 262 and 73 images were used
in the training steps per epoch and validation steps per
epoch with a batch size of 2. Seven different image aug-
mentation methods were used to increase image condi-
tions: rotate 50% horizontally, rotate 50% vertically, rotate
90°, 180°, and 270°, respectively, multiply with a random
value between 0.5 and 1.5, and blur with a Gaussian
kernel with a sigma of 5.0. The images were resized to
1024 × 1024.
The
learning
rate
was
0.001
with
a
momentum of 0.9. The loss weight of the RPN class, RPN
bounding box, Mask R-CNN class, Mask R-CNN bound-
ing box, and Mask R-CNN mask were the same. These
losses were summed to obtain the ﬁnal loss. The pre-
trained weights on the MS COCO43 were used to initialize
the weights of the Mask R-CNN model. The training was
done using a Tesla V100 GPU card with 16G memory.
Performance evaluation
AP was used to evaluate the classiﬁcation performance.
Precision is the ratio of the true detected objects over the
total number of detected objects. A precision of 1 meant
that all detections were true blueberries. Recall is the ratio
of the true detected objects over the total number of true
objects in the image. A recall of 1 meant that all the true
blueberries were detected in the image. It should be noted
that precision and recall are dependent upon the IOU
threshold, which is the area ratio between the intersection
and union of the detection and the ground truth. Different
IOU thresholds generated different precision and recall. A
precision-recall curve was obtained by using the average
values of the precision across all recall values44. To
accurately analyze the detection and classiﬁcation per-
formance, an AP with different IOU thresholds between
0.5 and 0.95 with 0.05 interval was calculated. Then, the
mAP over all the blueberries in the dataset was measured.
The detected mask area was used to determine blueberry
cluster compactness trait. Thus, the mean IOU was cal-
culated to indicate mask segmentation accuracy.
Fig. 11 Illustration of blueberry clusters from different views. Four different cultivars (‘Meadowlark’, ‘Emerald’, ‘Farthing’, and ‘Star’) were imaged
with ﬁve different views (by rotating the fruit cluster 360°).
Ni et al. Horticulture Research (2020) 7:110 
Page 12 of 14

Blueberry traits extraction and analysis
Blueberry samples
The blueberry samples for trait analysis were imaged
using a DSLR (digital single-lens reﬂex) camera (X-A10,
Fujiﬁlm, Japan) with a resolution of 4896 × 2760 pixels.
The images were collected from mature blueberry plants
on commercial farms in Alma, Georgia on April 17th,
2019, when the fruit was partly mature and not yet har-
vested. Four blueberry cultivars (‘Meadowlark’, ‘Emerald’,
‘Farthing’, and ‘Star’) with 26 branches per cultivar and 5
views per branch (covered 360°) were captured, making
the total number of 104 samples with 520 images. All of
the images were captured with an artiﬁcial background (a
brown ﬁle folder) to avoid disturbance from other blue-
berry branches. Figure 11 shows one branch sample for
each cultivar. The berries on the ‘Meadowlark’ and ‘Star’
varieties are relatively loose, while those on the ‘Emerald’
and ‘Farthing’ are relatively compact. The total number of
berries Nb and the number of clusters Nc on each branch
were recorded.
Traits deﬁnition and extraction
In this paper, the blueberry traits evaluated are the
number of blueberries within a branch (Nb), maturity, and
compactness. Based on the Mask R-CNN blueberry
detection model, these traits were obtained using the
customized deﬁnitions and algorithms. Nb is the number
of detected blueberries from the image. Maturity is
deﬁned as the ratio of the number of mature blueberries
(Nm) over the total detected number (Nb). The com-
pactness is deﬁned as the ratio of the detected blueberry
mask area (A) over the minimum bounding box area (Ab).
The minimum bounding box is the bounding box that has
the minimum area to enclose all the detected blueberries.
The minimum bounding box remains the same regardless
of the orientation of the blueberries in the image, which
means the compactness value is consistent using the
minimum bounding box (Fig. 12). All the traits are
extracted from ﬁve different view images for each sample.
The average number, maturity, and compactness for the
ﬁve views of the same sample were calculated as the traits
for that sample.
maturity ¼
number of mature blueberries
total detected blueberry number ¼ Nm
Nb ;
compactness ¼ etected blueberry mask area
minimun bounding box area ¼
A
Ab :
Traits analysis
The ground truth of blueberry number within a branch
(Nt) was recorded manually when collecting data. Linear
regression was used to obtain the relationship between
the detected number and the ground truth, and the RMSE
was calculated. In addition, analysis of variance was
conducted (JMP®, 14.1.0, SAS Institute Inc., Cary, NC,
1989–2019) to analyze the differences in blueberry
number per branch (Nb), maturity, and compactness
among cultivars.
Acknowledgements
This study was supported by the USDA National Institute of Food and
Agriculture Specialty Crop Research Initiative (Award No: 2014-51181-22383).
The authors thank China Scholarship Council (CSC) for the ﬁnancial support to
the author (X.N.) to conduct her doctoral research in the Bio-Sensing and
Instrumentation Lab at the University of Georgia. The authors also gratefully
thank Rui Xu and Renee Allen for the help on data collection in Alma.
Author details
1College of Biosystems Engineering and Food Science, Zhejiang University,
Hangzhou, China. 2College of Engineering, University of Georgia, Athens, GA,
USA. 3Appalachian Fruit Research Station, USDA-ARS, Kearneysville, WV, USA
Fig. 12 Blueberry with a regular bounding box and minimum bounding box. The yellow circles are the blueberry masks. The yellow rectangle is
the minimum bounding box, the red rectangle is the regular bounding box whose sides are always horizontal or vertical.
Ni et al. Horticulture Research (2020) 7:110 
Page 13 of 14

Author contributions
X.N., C.L., and H.J. designed experiments with F.T.’s insights and advice. X.N.
and H.J. collected the data. X.N. processed the data. X.N. and C.L. analyzed the
data. X.N. wrote the draft and all coauthors contributed writing the paper.
Conﬂict of interest
The authors declare that they have no conﬂict of interest.
Received: 25 December 2019 Revised: 31 March 2020 Accepted: 14 April
2020
References
1.
Sargent, S. A. et al. Harvest of southern highbush blueberry with a modiﬁed,
over-the-row mechanical harvester: use of handheld shakers and soft catch
surfaces. Agriculture 10, 4 (2020).
2.
Gallardo, R. K. & Zilberman, D. The economic feasibility of adopting
mechanical harvesters by the highbush blueberry industry. HortTechnology 26,
299–308 (2016).
3.
Brown, G. K. et al. Estimates of mechanization effects on fresh blueberry
quality. Appl. Eng. Agric. 12, 21–26 (1996).
4.
Takeda, F. et al. Assessment of the V45 blueberry harvester on rabbiteye
blueberry and southern highbush blueberry pruned to V-shaped canopy.
HortTechnology 18, 130–138 (2008).
5.
Ballington, J. Germplasm resources available to meet future needs for blue-
berry cultivar improvement. Fruit. Var. J. 44, 54–62 (1990).
6.
International Organisation of Vine and Wine, Compendium of international
methods of wine and must analysis. International Organisation of Vine and
Wine. (Paris, France, 2015).
7.
Tello, J. & Forneck, A. A double-sigmoid model for grapevine bunch com-
pactness development. OENO One 52, 307–316 (2018). https://oeno-one.eu/
article/view/2132#.
8.
Cubero, S. et al. A new method for assessment of bunch compactness using
automated image analysis. Aust. J. grape wine Res. 21, 101–109 (2015).
9.
Rist, F. et al. High-precision phenotyping of grape bunch architecture using
fast 3D sensor and automation. Sensors 18, 763 (2018).
10.
Hed, B., Ngugi, H. K. & Travis, J. W. Relationship between cluster compactness
and bunch rot in Vignoles grapes. Plant Dis. 93, 1195–1201 (2009).
11.
Schwartze, C. D. & Myhre, A. S. Growing Blueberries in the Puget Sound Region of
Washington (State College of Washington, Institute of Agricultural Sciences,
Washington, 1954).
12.
Lyrene, P. Breeding southern highbush blueberries. Plant Breed. Rev. 30,
353–414 (2007).
13.
Brightwell, W. T. A Comparison of the Ethel and Walker Varieties as Parents in
Blueberry Breeding. (The Ohio State University, 1956).
14.
Gilbert, J. L. et al. Potential for increasing southern highbush blueberry ﬂavor
acceptance by breeding for major volatile components. HortScience 48,
835–843 (2013).
15.
El Agamy, S., Aly, M. & Biggs, R.Fruit maturity as related to ethylene in ‘Delite’
blueberry. Proc Fla State Hortic Soc 95, 245–246 (1982).
16.
Kalt, W., McRae, K. & Hamilton, L. Relationship between surface color and other
maturity indices in wild lowbush blueberries. Can. J. Plant Sci. 75, 485–490
(1995).
17.
Yang, C., Lee, W. S. & Gader, P. Hyperspectral band selection for detecting
different blueberry fruit maturity stages. Comput. Electron. Agric. 109, 23–31
(2014).
18.
Yang, C., Lee, W. S. & Williamson, J. G. Classiﬁcation of blueberry fruit and leaves
based on spectral signatures. Biosyst. Eng. 113, 351–362 (2012).
19.
LeCun, Y., Bengio, Y. & Hinton, G. Deep learning. Nature 521, 436–444 (2015).
20.
Papandreou, G. et al. Weakly-and semi-supervised learning of a deep con-
volutional network for semantic image segmentation. 2015 IEEE International
Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV). pp. 1742–1750 (Santiago, Chile, 2015).
21.
Long, J., Shelhamer, E. & Darrell, T. Fully convolutional networks for semantic
segmentation. 2015 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recogni-
tion (CVPR). pp. 3431–3440 (Boston, MA, USA, 2015).
22.
Ronneberger, O., P. Fischer, and T. Brox. U-Net: Convolutional networks for
biomedical image segmentation. In International Conference on Medical image
computing and computer-assisted intervention. (Springer, 2015).
23.
He, K., et al. Mask R-CNN. 2017 IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision
(ICCV). pp. 2980–2988 (Venice, Italy, 2017).
24.
Ren, S. et al. Faster R-CNN: Towards real-time object detection with region
proposal networks. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelli-
gence 39, 1137–1149 (2017).
25.
Chen, L.-C. et al. Deeplab: Semantic image segmentation with deep con-
volutional nets, atrous convolution, and fully connected crfs. IEEE Trans. Pattern
Anal. Mach. Intell 40, 834–848 (2017).
26.
Chen, L.-C. et al. Rethinking atrous convolution for semantic image seg-
mentation. arXiv: 1706.05587 (2017).
27.
Chen, L.-C. et al. Encoder-decoder with atrous separable convolution for
semantic image segmentation. arXiv: 1802.02611 (2018).
28.
Wu, H. et al. FastFCN: Rethinking Dilated Convolution in the Backbone for
Semantic Segmentation. arXiv: 1903.11816 (2019).
29.
Zhu, Y. et al. Improving semantic segmentation via video propagation and
label relaxation. 2019 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition (CVPR). pp. 8848-8857 (Long Beach, CA, USA, 2019).
30.
Milella, A. et al. In-ﬁeld high throughput grapevine phenotyping with a
consumer-grade depth camera. Computers Electron. agriculture 156, 293–306
(2019).
31.
Simonyan, K. & Zisserman, A. Very deep convolutional networks for large-scale
image recognition. CoRR, abs/1409.1556. (2014)
32.
Santos, T. T. et al. Grape detection, segmentation and tracking using deep
neural networks and three-dimensional association. Computers and Electronics
in Agriculture 170, 2020 (2020).
33.
Redmon, J. et al., You only look once: uniﬁed, real-time object detection. 2016
IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR). pp.
779–788 (Las Vegas, NV, USA, 2016).
34.
Redmon, J. & Farhadi, A. YOLOv3: An Incremental Improvement. https://arxiv.
org/abs/1804.02767 (2018).
35.
Zabawa, L. et al. Detection of single grapevine berries in images using fully
convolutional neural networks. 2019 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition Workshops (CVPRW). pp. 2571–2579 (Long Beach, CA,
USA, 2019).
36.
Grimm, J. et al. An adaptable approach to automated visual detection of plant
organs with applications in grapevine breeding. Biosyst. Eng. 183, 170–183 (2019).
37.
Tan, Y., Q. Hu, & Z. Du. Batch mode active learning with nonlocal self-similarity
prior for semantic segmentation. In 2019 International Joint Conference on
Neural Networks (IJCNN) (IEEE, 2019).
38.
Yao, X. et al. Semantic annotation of high-resolution satellite images via weakly
supervised learning. IEEE Trans. Geosci. Remote Sens. 54, 3660–3671 (2016).
39.
Olmstead, J. W. & Finn, C. E. Breeding highbush blueberry cultivars adapted to
machine harvest for the fresh market. HortTechnology 24, 290–294 (2014).
40.
Sargent, S. A. et al. Fruit detachment force of southern highbush blueberry: an
aid to selection of cultivars suitable for mechanical harvest. In HortScience (2010).
41.
Tan, K. et al. Recognising blueberry fruit of different maturity using histogram
oriented gradients and colour features in outdoor scenes. Biosyst. Eng. 176,
59–72 (2018).
42.
Chen, X. et al. New approach of simultaneous, multi‐perspective imaging for
quantitative assessment of the compactness of grape bunches. Aust. J. Grape
Wine Res. 24, 413–420 (2018).
43.
Lin, T.-Y. et al. Microsoft COCO: Common objects in context (Springer, 2014).
44.
Everingham, M. et al. The pascal visual object classes (voc) challenge. Int. J.
Comput. Vis. 88, 303–338 (2010).
Ni et al. Horticulture Research (2020) 7:110 
Page 14 of 14
