Occluded Person Re-Identification with Deep Learning: A Survey and
Perspectives
Enhao Ning a,1, Changshuo Wang a,b,1, Huang Zhangc, Xin Ning a,∗and Prayag Tiwari d,∗
aInstitute of Semiconductors, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100083, China
bCenter of Materials Science and Optoelectronics Engineering & School of Microelectronics, University of Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Beijing, 100083, China
cSchool of Software, Xinjiang University, Xinjiang, 830000, China
dSchool of Information Technology, Halmstad University, Halmstad, 30118, Sweden
A R T I C L E I N F O
Keywords:
Occluded Person Re-identification
Literature Survey and Perspectives
Multimodal Person Re-identification
3D Person Re-identification.
A B S T R A C T
Person re-identification (Re-ID) technology plays an increasingly crucial role in intelligent surveil-
lance systems. Widespread occlusion significantly impacts the performance of person Re-ID. Oc-
cluded person Re-ID refers to a pedestrian matching method that deals with challenges such as pedes-
trian information loss, noise interference, and perspective misalignment. It has garnered extensive
attention from researchers. Over the past few years, several occlusion-solving person Re-ID methods
have been proposed, tackling various sub-problems arising from occlusion. However, there is a lack
of comprehensive studies that compare, summarize, and evaluate the potential of occluded person
Re-ID methods in detail. In this review, we start by providing a detailed overview of the datasets
and evaluation scheme used for occluded person Re-ID. Next, we scientifically classify and analyze
existing deep learning-based occluded person Re-ID methods from various perspectives, summarizing
them concisely. Furthermore, we conduct a systematic comparison among these methods, identify the
state-of-the-art approaches, and present an outlook on the future development of occluded person
Re-ID.
1. Introduction
With the increasing integration and intelligence of surveil-
lance equipment (Bedagkar-Gala & Shah, 2014) in re-
cent years, person re-identification (Re-ID) technology has
significantly advanced. This technology finds extensive
application in sensitive and specialized domains, such as
medicine, rescue operations, criminal investigations, and
surveillance. These fields often operate in complex and
dynamic environments. Consequently, the rapid and accurate
localization and identification of specific targets in multi-
camera occlusion scenarios hold immense practical signifi-
cance.
Given the complexity and variability of real-life scenes,
where people and objects move randomly, and surveillance
devices typically cover wide areas, the likelihood of oc-
cluded individuals is high. Occlusion can have a severe
impact on visual information, rendering the affected features
unreliable. Occlusion can occur due to object interference,
changes in pedestrian pose, clothing, and perspective. In
early pedestrian representations, researchers primarily re-
lied on basic, local visual attributes extracted from images,
such as color, texture, edges, and corner points. These fea-
tures capture geometric shapes and pixel distributions in
images but are highly sensitive to external factors, lacking
robustness and generalization. The development of deep
∗Corresponding author.
E-mail addresses: ningenhao@163.com (.E.N. ),
wangchangshuo@semi.ac.cn (.C.W. ), zhhh1998@outlook.com (H. Zhang),
ningxin@semi.ac.cn (.X.N. ), prayag.tiwari@ieee.org (P.T. )
ORCID(s):
1Equal contribution.
learning has introduced high-level visual features. Com-
pared with low-level visual features, high-level features are
more adaptive to occlusions, noises and pose changes, and
have stronger robustness in complex environments. Conse-
quently, numerous researchers have developed a multitude
of methods to address the prevalent occlusion problem. In
general, the occlusion problem is divided into three sub-
problems: (1) Noise problem. The problem of interference
by multiple and mixed information from the features in
the acquisition of complex scenes. (2) Missing problem.
The problem of incomplete pedestrian features is due to
only a part of the pedestrian being captured. (3) Alignment
problem. Owing to the change in posture, perspective, and
position, the features cannot correspond one-to-one, which
causes distraction, shared location misalignment, and other
issues. The study of occlusion also involves the separation
of humans and backgrounds to extract human features as the
core. Methods to extract fine-grained, highly discriminative,
and more essential features with reference and value have
also been studied.
We want to identify the current state-of-the-art and lim-
itations of existing methods and discover unexplored areas.
Specifically, we present methods for dealing with occluded
person Re-ID that were submitted in top international jour-
nals or conferences before 2023. We classify deep learning-
based occluded person Re-ID according to the network
structure of extracted features (CNN-based, transformer-
based, and hybrid structure-based), the way features are
extracted (uni-modal and multi-modal), and the hierarchical
structure of features (2d and 3d). ( see Figure 1). First, due to
the powerful performance of convolutional neural networks
(CNNs) in image matching tasks, CNN-based methods have
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 1 of 17
arXiv:2311.00603v1  [cs.CV]  1 Nov 2023

Short Title of the Article
Occluded 
pedestrian Re-ID
Based on CNN
Local feature learning
Body segmentation
Attribute annotation
Pose estimation
Semantic segmentation
Composite methods
Relational representation
Attention
Clustering
Other methods
Graph convolution
Shared area
Multimodal Re-ID 
Data interaction
Model interaction
3D  Re-ID
Mixing method
Based on vit
Regularization
Regional reconfiguration
Data enhancement
Teacher-student model
Multiscale
Figure 1: Overall structure of the survey.
become one of the mainstream methods to deal with oc-
clusion problems in person Re-ID. Therefore, we treat the
cnn-based methods as the first class of methods to deal with
the occlusion problem. Secondly, based on the success of
transformer in the field of natural language, in recent years,
vit has also been widely used to deal with the occlusion
problem in pedestrian re-identification with good results.
Therefore, we treat transformer-based methods as the second
category. The third class of methods are some composite
methods. For example, the complementary nature of CNN
and vit is exploited to form a hybrid structure. The fourth
and fifth class of methods are based on 3D and multimodal
to deal with the occlusion problem in person Re-ID. They
deal with more scenarios and are a relatively novel approach.
In general, the contributions of this study are as follows:
1) This study focuses on addressing the occlusion prob-
lem in person Re-ID models, which is crucial for achieving
high accuracy and robustness. We present a scientific and
comprehensive review of past and current state-of-the-art
approaches.
2) The current review of person Re-ID methods lacks
sufficient coverage of approaches based on ViT. Given the
excellent performance of ViT in occluded person Re-ID, we
include a discussion of this method and its hybrid variants
in our study, offering researchers new ideas and options for
addressing the occlusion problem.
3) We creatively incorporate 3D person Re-ID and mul-
timodal person Re-ID, which have become popular in recent
years. These novel methods can better solve the occlusion
problem by utilizing additional depth or modal information,
thus improving the performance and reliability of person Re-
ID.
4) We anticipate advancements in occluded person Re-
ID and firmly believe that continued research and innovation
will lead to the development of more effective methods and
technologies for addressing the occlusion problem. These
advancements will inspire and drive progress in the field of
person Re-ID.
2. Literature review
In the field of person Re-ID, there is a relative scarcity
of specialized reviews compared to methodological articles.
And they all focus on specific problems. These surveys are
listed in Table 1. Bedagkar-Gala & Shah (2014) focuses on
the challenges of person Re-ID and divides it into open-set
Re-ID and closed-set Re-ID based on the fixity of the gallery.
Zheng et al. (2016) divides the methods of person Re-ID into
methods for images and methods for videos based on the
matching strategy. Gou et al. (2018) provides a more detailed
study of the features, metrics, and datasets of person Re-ID.
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 2 of 17

Short Title of the Article
Table 1
The summary of person-reported surveys in recent years.
Survey
Venue
A survey of approaches and trends in person Re-ID (Bedagkar-Gala & Shah, 2014)
IVC2014
Person Re-ID Past, Present and Future (Zheng et al., 2016)
arXiv2016
A systematic evaluation and benchmark for person Re-ID: Features, metrics, and datasets (Gou et al., 2018)
TPAMI2019
Beyond intra-modality discrepancy: A comprehensive survey of heterogeneous person Re-ID (Wang et al., 2019b)
arXiv2019
A Survey of Open-World Person ReIdentification (Leng et al., 2019)
TCSVT2020
Survey on Reliable Deep Learning-Based person Re-ID Models: Are We There Yet? (Lavi et al., 2020)
arXiv2020
Deep Learning for Person Reidentification: A Survey and Outlook (Ye et al., 2021b)
TPAMI2021
SSS-PR: A short survey of surveys in person Re-ID (Yaghoubi et al., 2021)
PRL2021
Deep learning-based person Re-ID methods: A survey and outlook of recent works (Ming et al., 2022)
IVC2022
Deep Learning-based Occluded person Re-ID: A Survey (Peng et al., 2022)
arXiv2022
Wang et al. (2019b) focuses on heterogeneous person Re-ID.
According to the application scenario, it classify the meth-
ods into four categories — low-resolution, infrared,sketch,
and text. Leng et al. (2019) focuses on open-world Re-ID
tasks. Lavi et al. (2020) classifies Re-ID into single feature
learning based approaches and multi-feature learning based
approaches based on feature learning strategies. Ye et al.
(2021b) provides a more detailed explanation of Re-ID for
open and closed settings, and introduces methods such as
transmembrane states, unsupervised. Yaghoubi et al. (2021)
provides a more multidimensional classification of the per-
son Re-ID problem. Ming et al. (2022) classifies the methods
of person Re-ID into four categories based on metric learn-
ing and representation learning, and adds the latest methods.
Peng et al. (2022) focuses on image-based obscured person
Re-ID methods. However, these investigations are inevitably
affected by a number of inherent limitations. Considering the
widespread existence of the occlusion problem in pedestrian
recognition, research on occluded person Re-ID is essential.
Therefore, we provide an in-depth summary and comprehen-
sive analysis of methods and prospects in occluded person
Re-ID to advance future developments.
3. Datasets and Evaluation Protocols
3.1. Datasets
Occluded person Re-ID datasets can be divided into
two categories: partial person and occluded person Re-ID
datasets. The pedestrian images of the occluded person Re-
ID datasets have occlusion information interference and are
not cropped. The pedestrian image portion of the partial
person Re-ID dataset is present and artificially cropped. Ex-
amples of partial/occluded person Re-ID datasets are shown
in Figure 2.
Occluded-DukeMTMC (Miao et al., 2019) was col-
lected from DukeMTMC-reID (Zheng et al., 2017), contain-
ing 15,618 training images of 708 pedestrians, 2,210 query
images of 519 pedestrians, and 17,661 gallery images of
1,110 pedestrians for testing. Of these images, 9% of the
training set, 100% of the query set, and 10% of the gallery
are occluded images. Obstacles include cars, bicycles, trees,
and other pedestrians, adding complexity to the dataset.
P-ETHZ (Zheng et al., 2015b) is an image-based oc-
cluded person Re-ID dataset, modified by ETHZ (Ess et al.,
2008). It has 3,897 images containing 85 pedestrian identi-
ties with 1 to 30 full-body and occluded pedestrian images
per identity.
P-DukeMTMC-reID (Zhuo et al., 2018) was modified
from DukeMTMC-reID (Zheng et al., 2017), containing
a total of 24,143 images of 1,299 pedestrians, and each
identity has a full-body and occlusion image; the pedestrian
in the image is occluded by different objects, such as other
pedestrians, cars, and signage.
Occluded-REID (Zheng et al., 2015b) has 2,000 im-
ages of 200 pedestrians, each pedestrian corresponding to 5
occlusion and 5 whole body images, collected from Sun Yat-
sen University. The dataset includes different viewpoints and
types of severe occlusion, which challenges person Re-ID.
Occluded-DukeMTMC-VideoReID (Hou et al., 2021)
was reorganized from the DukeMTMC-VideoReID (Wu
et al., 2018) dataset. The training set contains 1,702 trajec-
tory segments covering 702 pedestrians, the test set queries
cover 661 pedestrians, and the gallery covers 1,110. More
than 70% of the videos are occluded, including different
perspectives and a variety of obstacles, such as cars, trees,
bicycles, and other pedestrians.
Partial-ReID
(Zheng et al., 2015b) has 600 images
of 60 pedestrians, 5 partial and 5 full-body images for
each pedestrian. Using the visible parts, they are manually
cropped to form new partial images. The images are col-
lected from different perspectives, backgrounds and occlu-
sions in a university campus.
Partial-iLIDS (He et al., 2018) was derived from iLIDS
(Zheng et al., 2011) and contains 238 images of 119 pedestri-
ans. Each pedestrian corresponds to one manually cropped
non-occluded partial image and one full-body image. The
partial image is used as a query, and the full-body image
is used as a search library. It was shot by multiple non-
overlapping cameras, mostly for test sets.
Partial-CAVIAR (He et al., 2018) was derived from
CAVIAR (Cheng et al., 2011) and contains 142 images of
72 pedestrians. The partial map is generated by randomly
picking half of the overall image of each pedestrian.
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 3 of 17

Short Title of the Article
(a) Occluded-Duke 
(c) Partial-REID  
(b) Occluded-REID 
(d) Partial-iLIDS 
Figure 2: Examples of four commonly used occluded person
Re-ID datasets.
P-CUHK03 (Kim & Yoo, 2017) was constructed based
on CUHK03 (Li et al., 2014), with a total of 1,360 pedes-
trian images, wherein 15,080 images corresponding to 1,160
pedestrians are used as a training set, and the remaining 100
pedestrians are used as a validation and test set. Two of the
images are selected to generate 10 local body query images
with a spatial area ratio, and the remaining three images are
used as whole body gallery images.
3.2. Evaluation Protocols
In the field of occluded person Re-ID, the commonly
used evaluation metrics are Cumulative Matching Charac-
teristic (CMC) curves and mean Average Precision (mAP).
CMC curves are based on the principle of ranking the
similarity between the query image and the image library,
and the higher the top image, the higher the similarity with
the query image. Then, the top-k accuracy ACCk of the
query image is calculated based on this ranking. If the first
k samples contain the query target, then ACCk is 1, k ∈
{1, 2, 3...}. Otherwise, ACCk is 0 . Finally, the ACCkcurves
for all targets are summed and divided by the total number
of targets to obtain CMC-k.
mAP better reflects the degree to which all correct target
pictures are at the top of the sorted list. Compared with
the CMC curve, it can more comprehensively measure the
performance of Re-ID algorithms, where P is the precision
rate, which refers to the proportion of correct samples among
all samples. It reflects the accuracy of the correct samples
in the output. The AP is the average of all correct samples
predicted by the model. It reflects how well the model works
on a single category and is the average of the accuracy of
each correct prediction. Since there is more than one class in
the recognition, the average AP value needs to be calculated
for all classes, so the average accuracy of each class is added
and divided by the total number of classes to obtain mAP.
The CMC curve cannot consider the hits of the samples
with lower rankings, while mAP takes all samples into
account. Therefore, they are important and complementary.
4. Deep Learning Methods
4.1. Based on CNN
Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have emerged as
one of the leading methods for learning pedestrian represen-
tations from RGB images. By using local perceptual fields
and learning filters, CNNs can extract powerful features
that capture regional information about local features of
pedestrians. These features are then compressed and mapped
to higher-level representations. Researchers have refined
them to be usable for pedestrian matching tasks in complex
realistic scenarios. We classify it into local feature learning,
relational representation, mixing methods, and other meth-
ods.
4.1.1. Local Feature Learning
Local feature-learning performs better at handling re-
gional features, and it has unique advantages for occlusion
region recognition and location compared with global fea-
tures. According to its implementation of different local
feature methods, we divide them into human segmentation,
pose estimation, human parsing, attribute annotation, and
hybrid methods ( see Figure 3 ).
Body Segmentation. By leveraging the characteristic of
pedestrians walking upright, our method extracts improved
local features through the segmentation of the original image
or feature map. The segmentation results can take the form
of stripes, fixed regions, or small patches ( see Figure 4 ).
However, segmentation does not have the process of
identifying occlusions, so it is sensitive to noise. CBDB-
Net (Tan et al., 2021) evenly divides the strips on the
feature map and discards each strip one by one to output
multiple incomplete feature maps, which forces the model
to learn a more robust pedestrian representation in an en-
vironment with incomplete information. The DPPR (Kim
& Yoo, 2017) predefines thirteen bounding boxes for the
whole-body image, including the whole image, half-body
image, and horizontal part image, and extracts features from
each part. At the same time, an attention-based matching
mechanism is introduced to make the feature weight of the
same body part larger, which can alleviate the information
loss caused by occlusion. At the same time, an attention-
based matching mechanism is introduced to make the feature
weight of the same body part larger, which can alleviate the
information loss caused by occlusion. OCNet (Kim et al.,
2022) introduces a relationship-based approach to deal with
occlusion problems. OCNet (Kim et al., 2022) divides the
feature map horizontally into top and bottom features and
takes 1/4 of the middle width as the central feature. Then,
it is put into the relational adaptive module consisting of
two shared layers together with the global feature map.
The alignment problem between regional features is handled
by relations, and weights are introduced to suppress noise
interference.
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 4 of 17

Short Title of the Article
Man
Black hair
……
Feature 
Extractor
or
or
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
＋
or
Figure 3: Four different local feature learning methods: (a) in-
dicates pose estimation. (b) indicates semantic segmentation.
(c) indicates attribute annotations. (d) indicates the mixing
method.
Pose Estimation. Pose estimation extracts semantic in-
formation at the image pose level by exploiting the highly
structured human skeleton. The interference of noise is
suppressed in a guided or fused manner.
HOReID (Wang et al., 2020a) introduced a learnable
relational matrix. The human body key points obtained from
the pose estimation are regarded as nodes in the graph,
and finally, a topology graph is formed to suppress noise
interference. PMFB (Miao et al., 2021) uses pose estimation
to obtain confidence and coordinates of human keypoints.
Then, a threshold is set to filter the occluded regions. Finally,
the visible part is used to constrain the feature response at
channel level to solve the occlusion problem. PGMANet
(Zhai et al., 2021) generates an attention mask using a human
heat map. The interference of noise is removed jointly by the
dot product of feature maps and guidance of higher-order
relations.
Researchers generally use pose estimation in two direc-
tions: 1) to obtain semantic features through pose estimation,
identify noise points, and better remove noise interference,
and 2) to localize human regions through pose estimation
and thus solve the problem of alignment and local feature
extraction. AACN (Xu et al., 2018) uses pose points to locate
pedestrian body regions and introduces a posture-guided
visibility score to separate occlusions. DAReID (Xu et al.,
2021) adopts a dual-branch structure, in which the mask
branch extracts more discriminative local features based on
the spatial attention module guided by pose estimation, and
the global branch enhances the representation of human
discriminative information through feature activation. DSA-
reID (Zhang et al., 2019) estimates dense semantic informa-
tion at the 2D level by a pre-trained DensePose (Güler et al.,
2018) model and maps a set of dense 3D semantic align-
ment components. Local features are extracted by integrat-
ing neighboring components. Finally, the global and local
features are fused into the final feature. PGFL-KD (Zheng
et al., 2021) takes the local features of the semantic layer
Feature 
Extractor
loss
(a)
(b)
(c)
Figure 4: Three common Body Segmentation schematics: (a)
indicates stripes. (b) indicates fixed areas. (c) indicates small
blocks.
as queries and looks for more prominent foreground regions
in the feature map to obtain enhanced foreground features.
Based on this feature, interactive training and knowledge dis-
tillation are performed to constrain the learning of the back-
bone network. ACSAP (He et al., 2021c) uses pose keypoints
to guide the adversarial generation network to remove noise
interference by weakening the spatial relationship between
the front and back blocks. PDC (Su et al., 2017) obtains 6
body regions according to 14 key points of pose, rotates and
scales each part, and uses an improved PTN network to learn
the parameters of affine transformation. These local features
are automatically placed at certain locations in the drawing
to resolve alignment issues. PVPM (Gao et al., 2020b) trains
a visibility predictor based on the correspondence between
visibility parts. After that, the alignment problem is solved
by generating part pseudo-labels through graph matching.
Semantic Segmentation. By introducing a human pars-
ing model, the interference of noise is identified and removed
in the form of segmentation or semantic parsing.
SPReID (Kalayeh et al., 2018) generates probability
maps associated with five different body regions based on the
trained pedestrian class semantic parsing model Inception-
V3 (Szegedy et al., 2016), namely, foreground, head, upper
body, lower body, and shoes. Then, the probability map
is fused with the semantic region features after bilinear
interpolation to activate different parts and remove the inter-
ference of occlusion. CoAttention (Lin & Wang, 2021) takes
the parsing mask of the local image of the pedestrian’s body
as a query and constructs a mapping while introducing a self-
attentive mechanism to filter occlusions. MMGA (Cai et al.,
2019) first separates pedestrians from images into upper and
lower body using JPPNet (Liang et al., 2018). Then, two
attention modules are designed; the first is used to filter the
interference from the background, and the second generates
the corresponding spatial and channel attentions to extract
different features guided by the whole, upper, and lower body
masks. Finally, element-level multiplication is performed as
the final feature. HPNet (Huang et al., 2020) uses the COCO
(Lin et al., 2014) dataset to train the human body parsing
model to obtain labels for the four main body parts, based
on which the parsing model and overall network are trained
in a multitasking manner while generating visibility scores
to remove occlusions.
Semantic segmentation-based approaches also contribute
to enhancing the diversity of features. In the case of SORN
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 5 of 17

Short Title of the Article
(Zhang et al., 2020), a three-branch model composed of
a global branch, a local branch, and a semantic branch is
designed. The global branch aims to obtain global features
through normalization and feature aggregation. Meanwhile,
the local branch leverages prior knowledge of the pedestrian
body structure to generate pedestrian body parts and derive
local features through mapping, pooling, and normalization.
The semantic branch first uses the DANet (Fu et al., 2019)
model to pre-train the semantic labels of the data, trains
a semantic segmentation model on the DensePose-COCO
dataset (Güler et al., 2018), introduces label smoothing
to optimize the semantic labels, and forms a foreground
pedestrian body region by aggregating the semantic seg-
mentation part to realize the separation of background and
pedestrians. SGSFA (Ren et al., 2020) introduces a semantic
alignment branch and spatial feature alignment branch.
The former achieves semantic alignment through element-
level multiplication. The latter is based on regional spatial
alignment achieved by body structure.
Attribute annotation. The occlusion problem is han-
dled by introducing attribute annotation.
ASAN (Jin et al., 2021) extracts the visible part of human
features by combining attribute information and weak su-
pervision. Attribute information is a semantic level attribute
annotation. Based on the visibility part determination, a
region visibility matching algorithm is introduced to achieve
the effect of denoising.
Mixing method. Introducing more than two kinds of
external information can help the model remove the inter-
ference of noise in the form of feature interaction or co-
guidance.
GASM (He & Liu, 2020) proposes an architecture for
learning salient information, which separates pedestrians
from background by using semantic information, removes
occlusion interference by pose estimation, and then fuses
the two features to guide model learning. SSPReID (Quispe
& Pedrini, 2019) designs a joint learning method to com-
bine salient and semantic features. Five different semantic
features of the human body are obtained by human body
parsing. The saliency features utilize the regions of highest
attention in the graph. These features are fused with global
features and finally concatenated together to form the final
features. TSA (Gao et al., 2020a) introduces two kinds of
area features for the pose change problem, one guided by
pose keypoints and one guided by partial masks of the human
parsing model, after which the two are fused. Using interac-
tion can solve the pose change problem, while using pose and
segmentation can also suppress noise and thus solve the oc-
clusion problem. FGSA (Zhou et al., 2020a) proposes a pose
resolution network for complex pose changes to deal with
local locations and the relationships between them. Attribute
interaction learning is designed for local feature information
extraction corresponding to pose points, which is achieved
by training an intermediate attribute classification model
that treats attribute recognition as a multi-category labeling
problem. Finally, a local enhanced alignment model is added
in the feature fusion phase, that is, less weight is added to
(a)
(b)
(c)
Figure 5: (a) Schematic diagram showing figure convolution.
(b) Schematic representation of clustering. (c) Schematic
representation ofrepresentation of the shared area.
the background and more weight is added to the local and
attribute locations. The backbone network of LKWS (Yang
et al., 2021) is based on PCB (Sun et al., 2018). In local
feature extraction, the visibility label of points is generated
by pose estimation and a reasonable threshold, and then the
visibility of thick stripes is obtained by a voting mechanism.
Based on the visibility of stripes, a visibility discriminator is
trained to recognize noise interference. PGFA (Miao et al.,
2019) introduces a two-branch structure, where the local
branch extracts local features based on horizontal segmen-
tation. The global branch is guided by pose, and key points
are first obtained from pose estimation. Then, a reasonable
threshold is set to filter the noise points, a proper dot product
is performed with the feature map to fuse the features, and
the features of the partial branches are stitched together
into the final global features. Similarly, PDVM (Zhou et al.,
2020b) extracts the de-obscured global features based on the
pose heat map. Segmentation guides local feature extraction.
4.1.2. Relationship Representation
By focusing on feature relationships, occlusions are han-
dled in a suppressed, removed, or supervised manner. We
divide them into attention, clustering, graph convolution,
and shared region ( see Figure 5 ) according to their different
ways and means of learning relationships
Attention. By introducing the attention mechanism, the
model can select the highly salient and discriminative re-
gions to suppress the interference of noise.
To address the issue of missing images in person Re-
ID, DPPR (Kim & Yoo, 2017) employs an attention mech-
anism to emphasize the same pedestrian part across dif-
ferent images. This approach enhances the representation
of individuals and improves matching accuracy. Moreover,
OCNet (Kim et al., 2022) mitigates the effect of noise by
capturing higher-order relationships among regional fea-
tures and incorporating them with weighted combinations.
This method effectively suppresses the influence of noisy
or irrelevant information, resulting in more robust and ac-
curate person Re-ID outcomes. AACN (Xu et al., 2018)
combines pose guided attention maps and partial visibility
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 6 of 17

Short Title of the Article
scores to remove background distractions and occlusions
before extracting clean pedestrian features. DAReID (Xu
et al., 2021) introduces dual attention recognition. The local
area visible to the pedestrian is obtained by gesture-guided
spatial attention. Global features are extracted by feature
activation and pose. Both will then be used together to guide
the representation of features. PISNet (Zhao et al., 2020) is
concerned with the overlapping area between people and
objects. A module is designed to act as a guide feature
by querying features, which can attenuate the problem of
attention distraction caused by multiple pedestrians in the
gallery. Also, a reverse attention module based on strong
activation attention is designed, which enables the model to
assign more weight to the target region. APN (Huo et al.,
2021) proposes a partial perceptual attention network, which
takes partial feature maps as query vectors, calculates a
similarity mapping M with a mapping X of the feature maps,
and morphs the features by weighting M by X to achieve
the purpose of aggregating and extracting refined features.
MHSA-Net (Tan et al., 2022a) multiplies attention weights
with feature maps and applies a nonlinear transformation to
encourage multi-headed attention mechanisms to adaptively
capture key local features. CASN (Zheng et al., 2019) takes
attention and attention consistency as the criteria for model
learning and removes occlusion by introducing an attention
twin network to focus on more discriminative core areas.
VPM (Sun et al., 2019b) learns the visibility and location
of components by introducing a self-supervised component
localizer at the convolution output and introducing a feature
extractor that generates region information through weighted
pooling. PSE (Sarfraz et al., 2018) solves the occlusion
problem caused by view angle using view angle prediction.
Attention-based approaches not only enhance the flexi-
bility of the model, but also inject more contextual informa-
tion into the features. PAFM (Yang et al., 2022) introduces
an improved spatial attention module to discover relation-
ships between pixel points while capturing and aggregating
pixel points with high semantic relevance. Finally, it is
multiplied with the feature map containing pose informa-
tion to perform feature fusion. Co-Attention (Lin & Wang,
2021) takes the analytic mask of a partial pedestrian image
and whole image as the target and matches it through a
self-attention mechanism (Li et al., 2020). Finally, noise
interference is suppressed by focusing pedestrian features.
QPM (Wang et al., 2022b) divides the feature map into
six parts evenly in the vertical direction, and introduces a
component quality score to judge the visibility. Meanwhile,
a two-layer identity-aware module based on an attention
map is used to deal with pedestrian occlusion in the global
branch. Finally, global features are adaptively extracted from
clean pedestrian regions. DSOP (Wang et al., 2020b) divides
occlusion into shallow and deep layers. The shallow layer
learns the feature after occlusion by focusing on the local
region, and the deep layer gives a large receptive field to
learn the global feature, that is, the feature before occlusion.
After that, the channel and spatial attention mechanisms are
applied to the two branches for weighted fusion of features
(Ning et al., 2021).
Clustering.The interference of noise is solved by finding
the inherent distribution structure of the data to categorize
the pixel points.
ISP (Zhu et al., 2020) assigns a pseudo-label to each
pixel by tandem clustering. All pixels of the human body
image are firstly divided into foreground and background,
based on the assumption that the foreground is more respon-
sive than the background. Secondly, the pixels are clustered
into different parts and assigned pseudo-labels. Based on the
pseudo-labels, different weights are assigned to the pixels
to extract local features. This not only separates occlusions
from pedestrians at the pixel level, but also enables auto-
matic alignment.
Graph Convolution. By learning the high-order seman-
tic relationship between pixels, the noise interference is
suppressed by restricting the information transmission.
HOReID (Wang et al., 2020a) introduces a matrix de-
scribing the higher order relationships between points and
later passes information in this relationship matrix to form
a topological map. With the help of the constraints of the
topological map, the transfer of useless information between
points is suppressed, and the purpose of noise removal is
achieved.
Shared Area. The interference of noise is reduced by
sensing the same body parts of pedestrians in the image pairs
to extract shareable features.
DPPR (Kim & Yoo, 2017) gives larger weights to re-
gions containing the same body parts to improve the ability
of the model to extract core features. VPM (Sun et al., 2019b)
solves the alignment and denoising problem by perceiving
the visibility of shared regions. PPCL (He et al., 2021b)
learns component matching in a self-supervised manner and
finally computes image similarity based on shared semantic
corresponding regions only. KBFM (Han et al., 2020) fo-
cuses on extracting highly visible and shareable pose points,
which are used as the core area to extract features for
matching, and achieve the effect of denoising and alignment.
4.1.3. Other Methods
Regional reconfiguration.This is complements obscured
or noisy areas by using complete pedestrian areas.
To solve the problem of information loss caused by
occlusion, RFCNet (Hou et al., 2021) introduces an en-
coder–decoder that uses non-occlusion remote spatial con-
text for feature completion. The encoder is modeled by
similarity region assignment. The decoder reconstructs the
occluded region by establishing the correlation between the
occluded region and distant non-occluded region through
clustering. ACSAP (He et al., 2021c) combines attitude and
adversarial generation networks and designs an attitude-
guided spatial generator and spatial discriminator to remove
noise interference.
Data enhancement. The sensitivity of the model to
occlusion is improved by incorporating transformation of the
data.
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 7 of 17

Short Title of the Article
APNet (Zhong et al., 2020a) proposes a method to mod-
ify the detected bounding box. APNet (Zhong et al., 2020a)
designed a bounding box aligner that slides over the image
in a matching manner. Then, a feature extractor with high
discriminative power is designed to extract the core local
features and discard the noisy local features. IGOAS (Zhao
et al., 2021) adopts a progressive occlusion module, which
randomly generates small uniform occlusion on a group of
images and generates larger occlusion based on small occlu-
sion after model learning. Such a growing occlusion region
can improve the recognition ability of occlusion and achieve
the purpose of removing occlusion noise. OAMN (Chen
et al., 2021c) adopts a method based on cropping and scaling,
predefines four corners, randomly selects a training image
to be cropped and scaled to form patches on four positions,
and realizes weighted learning in combination with attention
to achieve denoising. RE (Zhong et al., 2020b) introduces
the technique of random pixel removal, which replaces the
pixel values in the region with random values by randomly
selecting rectangular regions, thereby improving the diver-
sity of data and robustness of the model. SSGR (Yan et al.,
2021) introduces a compound batch erase method, which
includes two erase operations: one is frequently used random
erase, and the other is batch constant erase. It first divides
the image horizontally into random S and randomly selects
a strip in each sub-batch to erase. Then, referring to the self-
attention mechanism and local feature learning, a matching-
based disentanglement non-local operation is introduced to
extract better features from the complete pedestrian region.
ETNDNet (Dong et al., 2023) addresses the occlusion prob-
lem from an adversarial defence perspective. It deals with
incomplete information, positional misalignment and noisy
information through strategies of randomly erasing feature
maps, introducing random transformations and perturbing
feature maps.
Regularization. By imposing penalties and constraints
on high-attention areas, the model is forced to focus on the
full pedestrian area. Pedestrian features are extracted using
complete information.
MHSA-Net (Tan et al., 2022a) introduces a feature reg-
ularization mechanism, which consists of a regularization
term based on attention weight embedding and a hard triplet
loss based on triplet feature units. The regularization term
can cover local information in many ways and increase
the completeness of information (Ning et al., 2020a). Hard
triplet loss can refine the fusion and be better used for
pedestrian matching.
Teacher-student model. Teacher models assist student
models in dealing with occlusion problems.
HG (Kiran et al., 2021) designs an end-to-end unsuper-
vised teacher–student framework that lets the teacher net-
work learn the between-class distance by inputting different
combinations of images, and then the student inherits the
network and learns the within-class distance by inputting
more noisy images of the same class. At the same time,
the attention embedding method with distance distribution
matching can help the student network to remove noise
(a)
(b)
Transformer
Encoder
loss
Figure 6:
(a) Schematic of the transformer-based approach.
(b) Schematic representation of data augmentation.
interference better and extract more discriminative features.
AFPB (Zhuo et al., 2019) first puts regular data and pedes-
trian volume data simulating occlusion into the teacher net-
work, and then it conducts joint training to make the teacher
network learn a basic model that is robust to occlusion. The
student network then inherits the teacher network. It learns
on more realistic, noisier real-world occluded pedestrian
data.
Multiscale. The occlusion problem is handled by multi-
scale feature representation.
DSR (He et al., 2018) focuses on solving problems
caused by differences in scale. DSR (He et al., 2018) first
trains a fixed-size fully convolutional network with only con-
volution and pooling on Market-1501 (Zheng et al., 2015a)
to represent the identity feature map, and it then introduces
three different scales of blocks to extract features in a sliding
manner (Li et al., 2021). Similarly, FPR (He et al., 2019)
also introduces a structure that only has convolution and
pooling and proposes a pyramid layer composed of multiple
different pooling kernels to solve the scale problem, an
attention-based foreground probability generator to process
the background, and a small weight to the background to
achieve removal of background distractions.
4.2. Based on vit
TransReID (He et al., 2021a), proposed in 2021, is the
first model to apply a vit (Dosovitskiy et al., 2020) in Re-
ID ( see Figure 6 ), which has two major features compared
to ResNet (He et al., 2016): (1) Multi-headed self-attention
is better at capturing long-range relationships and driving
the model to focus on different body parts (Khan et al.,
2022; Shamshad et al., 2023). (2) The transformer can retain
more detailed information in the absence of downsampling
computation. Based on these characteristics, many variants
of transformer have appeared in recent years, and researchers
have widely used them in occlusion Re-ID.
PFD (Wang et al., 2022d) first divides the image into
fixed-size blocks that can be overlapped and then uses
the transformer encoder to capture contextual relationships.
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 8 of 17

Short Title of the Article
Next, pose guided feature aggregation and a feature match-
ing mechanism are used to display the visible body parts.
Finally, the pose heat map and decoder are used as keys and
values to learn a set of semantic part views to enhance the
discriminability of body parts. DPM (Tan et al., 2022b) in-
troduces subspace selection to deal with the alignment prob-
lem. Specifically, DPM (Tan et al., 2022b) first aggregates
the feature representations of the overall prototype map and
the occlusion map using hierarchical semantic information
to enhance the quality of the generated prototype mask.
Then, a head enrichment module based on normalization
and orthogonality constraints is introduced to enhance the
discriminative representation of features and remove the
interference of noise. PFT (Zhao et al., 2022) introduces a
learnable enhancement patch to compensate for the problem
of local feature extraction (Islam, 2022) by transformer.
Through feature slicing, merging, and stitching, the patch
sequence can learn the long-range correlation of regions
while ensuring the receptive field and paying more attention
to local features. FED (Wang et al., 2022g) divides occlusion
into non-pedestrian and non-target pedestrian occlusion, and
focuses on the latter. Specifically, an occlusion set is first
created to enhance the data. Then, a multiplicative occlusion
score is introduced to diffuse the visible pedestrian parts,
which improves the quality of the synthesized non-target
pedestrians. The joint optimization of feature erasure and
feature diffusion modules realizes the perception ability of
the model to the target pedestrian.
FRT (Xu et al., 2022) first classifies the pedestrian into
head, torso, and legs using a pretrained pose estimation
model HRNet (Sun et al., 2019a), and extracts the corre-
sponding features. Then the occlusion elimination module
based on graph matching is introduced to eliminate the
interference caused by occlusion by learning the similarity
of common regions. Finally, FRT (Xu et al., 2022) recovers
query features by aggregating neighbor features to solve
the problem of information loss caused by occlusion. TL-
TransNet (Wang et al., 2022c) uses a well-improved Swin
transformer (Liu et al., 2021) as a benchmark model to
capture the main part of the person and uses DeepLabV3+
(Chen et al., 2018) to remove background interference in
the query and gallery. Finally, a reordering method based
on hybrid similarity and background adaptation is designed
to achieve the fusion of original features and removed back-
ground features. PADE (Huang et al., 2022) first obtains two
new images through cropping and erasing operations and
feeds them together with the original image into a multi-
branch parameter sharing network with a vit (Dosovitskiy
et al., 2020) as the backbone to enhance the global and local
features in a manner similar to the self-attention mechanism.
Finally, they are connected to form the final feature represen-
tation.
4.3. Composite Method
By introducing more than two different networks, the
occlusion problem is dealt with in an interactive or fused
manner.
FGMFN (Zhang et al., 2022a) introduces a dual branch
network. The local feature branches are first passed through
an affine transformation based on ResNet18. Then, input
into ResNet50 (He et al., 2016) to get the upper body
features and divide it into three regions, while introducing
the attention module based on the gate mechanism to remove
noise interference. The global feature branch adopts a feature
extraction scheme based on block partition, and finally,
the features of the two branches are fused proportionally
as the final feature. Pirt (Ma et al., 2021) first pre-trains
the HRNet (Sun et al., 2019a) pose estimation model on
the COCO (Lin et al., 2014) dataset, from which a two-
branch structure is elicited. Intra-part features are guided by
a carefully modified ResNet50 (He et al., 2016), inter-part
relationships are guided by a transformer, and the effects of
occlusion are removed by establishing part-aware long-range
dependencies. Pirt (Ma et al., 2021) learns inter- and intra-
part relationships in a collaborative manner. MAT (Zhou
et al., 2022) first uses a CNN to extract features from the
image. Then, it flattens and passes them to a transformer.
This method uses the methods of feature map and key point
embedding to obtain a key point heat map and segmentation
map. It uses affine transformation to obtain motion informa-
tion of each key point and combines action information to
realize fine-grained human body segmentation, and extracts
representative pedestrian body parts to remove interference
noise. DRL-Net (Jia et al., 2022) first acquires obstacles
from the training images to construct augmented samples
with random obstacles. Then, a CNN and Transformer are
concatenated to design a query-based semantic feature ex-
traction layer. Finally, the semantic bootstrap is used to
learn positive and negative sample comparisons and remove
interference noise.
4.4. 3D Re-ID
Compared to 2D, the use of 3D information for occlusion
person Re-ID is a relatively new approach. The shape and
spatial depth features represented by 3D data are robust to
texture information, and it usually reduces the interference
caused by occlusion through 3D feature denoising, 3D fea-
ture complementation and multi-view construction.
PersonX (Sun & Zheng, 2019) constructs virtual 3D
models by scanning people and objects in the real world
and then maps them back to 2D for re-representation. Such
manipulation of the data enhances the data representation.
(Wang et al., 2022f) used UV texture mapping to clone cloth-
ing from real-world pedestrians to virtual 3D characters,
while using a patch-based feature segmentation and expan-
sion approach to deal with occlusion. A more common form
of 3D information is the point cloud (Qi et al., 2017), where
the depth information in the point cloud can be used as an
additional channel to the image. OG-Net (Zheng et al., 2022)
uses Skinned Multi-Person Linear ( SMPL (Kanazawa et al.,
2018) ) to generate six channels of point cloud data from 2D
images, providing positional and texture information.
ASSP (Chen et al., 2021b) uses 3D body reconstruction
as an auxiliary task for 2D feature extraction. Specifically,
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 9 of 17

Short Title of the Article
texture-insensitive 3D shape information is first extracted
from 2D images as auxiliary features. After that, a 3D
row human model is created using SMPL (Loper et al.,
2015), while an adversarial learning and self-supervised
projection combination is designed to combine 2D and 3D
information into a 3D model for reconstruction (Ning et al.,
2020b). Regularization based on 3D reconstruction forces
the model to decouple 3D shape information from visual
features and remove the interference of noise to extract
more discriminative features. JGCL (Chen et al., 2021a)
mitigates the lack of information caused by perspective in
an unsupervised mapping. Specifically, a corresponding 3D
mesh is first generated using a 3D network generator HMR
(Kanazawa et al., 2018). After that, the model is rotated
and combined with a GAN to generate diverse views of the
human body. These generated new views are combined with
the original images in contrast learning while enhancing
the view-invariant representation to improve the generated
picture quality. 3DT (Zhang et al., 2022c) implements group
person Re-ID using a 3D transformer. Because pedestrians
in a group inevitably occlude each other, it transforms the
3D space into a discrete space by introducing a spatial
layout token based on quantization and sampling, and it later
assigns layout features to each member to reconstruct the
spatial relationships between members.
However, the research on recognition using point clouds
is still limited compared to 2D images, which is an important
research direction for the future.
4.5. Multi-modal Re-ID
RGB-IR multimodal Re-ID. Both day and night are
important scenes of pedestrian life, and in the case of in-
sufficient illumination, images can only be collected by
infrared cameras (Nguyen et al., 2017; Wu et al., 2017b).
If there is occlusion in the scene, the infrared image still
has occlusion. At the same time, the infrared image can
be used as a special channel of the RGB image, which
makes the representation mode of the RGB image more
complete and can supplement the information well in the
case of information loss caused by occlusion. The RGB-
IR multimodalRe-ID is designed to feed both infrared and
conventional images into the model. Removal of interference
from occlusion is achieved by the relationship of different
modalities or by combining approaches, such as attention
mechanisms, in dealing with single modal noise, multi-scale,
etc.
DDAG (Ye et al., 2020) proposes a dynamic dual at-
tention cross-modal graph structure. First, local attention
is generated according to the similarity between features.
Then, an aggregation representation of part-level relation
learning is introduced. At the same time, the graph structure
is introduced to remove the interference of noise based on
relation. MSPAC (Zhang et al., 2021) proposes a multi-
scale-based component awareness mechanism. By adding an
attention mechanism at the single scale, more fine-grained
features are extracted in channel and spatial dimensions.
After that, feature aggregation is realized using a cascade
framework. By adding different scale features, the global
structured body information is represented uniformly. CM-
LSP-GE (Wang et al., 2022e) is a framework for global
features and local characteristics. The occlusion problem is
solved by local features, and the alignment problem is solved
by image segmentation and computing the shortest path of
local features in two images.
To solve the intra-modal problem, HMML (Zhang et al.,
2022b) introduces a pairing-based intra-modal similarity
constraint to enhance the features. Similarly, CMC (Wen
et al., 2022) introduces multi-scale, multi-level feature learn-
ing to achieve refined feature extraction. To solve the prob-
lem of pedestrian pose misalignment caused by occlusion
in transmembrane state, DAPN (Liu et al., 2022) proposes
an alignment network that can learn global and local modal
invariance. Specifically, DAPN (Liu et al., 2022) first intro-
duces an adaptive spatial transform module to align images.
Second, the image is segmented horizontally to extract local
features. Meanwhile, to learn the similarity representation
of different modes, the different modes are embedded into
a unified feature space (Cai et al., 2021). Finally, the global
and local features are fused as the final features. To solve
the alignment problem, SPOT (Chen et al., 2022) proposes a
transformer-based network. First, a relational network com-
posed of four convolution layers and two pooling layers is
used to process the human body key point heat map to obtain
the pedestrian body structure information. Combining it
with the attention mechanism, the pedestrian region is high-
lighted to remove the background interference. Then, the
transformer is used to mine the relationship between parts’
positions and features to enhance the discriminability of
local features. The final feature is extracted by adding weight
combination. VI (Park et al., 2021) first extracts features of
IR and RGB using a dual-stream CNN. The cosine similarity
of all corresponding feature pairs is calculated simultane-
ously, and the corresponding matching probability is calcu-
lated by the SoftMax function. These probabilities are taken
as semantic similarity features of different modalities. Then,
more discriminative features are extracted by local feature
association. The above features are then aggregated to form
the final feature. To solve the problem of image internal
misalignment, DTRM (Ye et al., 2021a) combines attention
and partial aggregation, and uses the context relationship of
the two modalities to improve the global features to eliminate
the noise effect.
RGB-Depth multimodal Re-ID. Depth (Wang et al.,
2021a) images are captured through devices such as laser
radars, and they provide body shape and skeletal information
by measuring distance. For images, when information is
lost owing to obstacles, depth features can supplement the
position information of texture features to assist in a more
complete expression. At the same time, it can solve the
lighting problem and the problem of changing clothes for
pedestrians. It can also help solve the problems of obstacle
illumination and different changing environments for cloth-
ing. RGB-Depth multimodal Re-ID aims to input depth map
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 10 of 17

Short Title of the Article
Table 2
Comparison of experimental results based on local feature learning methods. The red numbers indicate the best results. (in %).
Method
Venue
Occluded-Duke
Occluded-REID
Partial-REID
Partial-iLIDS
Market1501
DukeMTMC-reID
Rank-1
mAP
Rank-1
mAP
Rank-1
Rank-3
Rank-1
Rank-3
Rank-1
mAP
Rank-1
mAP
Local
Feature
Learning
Body
Segmentation
CBDB-Net (Tan et al., 2021)
TCSVT2021
50.09
38.9
-
-
66.7
78.3
68.4
81.5
94.4
85
87.7
74.3
OCNet (Kim et al., 2022)
ICASSP2022
64.30
54.40
-
-
-
-
-
-
95
89.3
90.5
80.2
Pose
Estimation
AACN (Xu et al., 2018)
CVPR2018
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
88.69
82.96
76.84
59.25
ACSAP (He et al., 2021c)
ICIP2021
-
-
-
-
77
83.7
76.5
87.4
-
-
-
-
DAReID (Xu et al., 2021)
KBS2021
63.4
-
-
-
68.1
79.5
76.7
85.3
94.6
87
88.9
78.4
DSA-reID (Zhang et al., 2019)
CVPR2019
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
95.7
87.6
86.2
74.3
HOReID (Wang et al., 2020a)
CVPR2020
-
-
80.3
70.2
85.3
91
72.6
86.4
94.2
84.9
86.9
75.6
PAFM (Yang et al., 2022)
NCA2022
55.1
42.3
76.4
68
82.5
-
-
-
95.6
88.5
91.2
80.1
PDC (Su et al., 2017)
ICCV2017
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
84.14
63.41
-
-
PGFL-KD (Zheng et al., 2021)
MM2021
63
54.1
80.7
70.3
85.1
90.8
74
86.7
95.3
87.2
89.6
79.5
PGMANet (Zhai et al., 2021)
IJCNN2021
-
-
-
-
82.1
85.5
68.8
78.1
-
-
-
-
PMFB (Miao et al., 2021)
TNNLS2021
56.3
43.5
-
-
72.5
83
70.6
81.3
92.7
81.3
86.2
72.6
PVPM (Gao et al., 2020b)
CVPR2020
-
-
70.4
61.2
78.3
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Semantic
Segmentation
Co-Attention (Lin & Wang, 2021)
ICIP2021
-
-
-
-
83
90.3
73.1
83.2
-
-
-
-
HPNet (Huang et al., 2020)
ICME2020
-
-
87.3
77.4
85.7
-
68.9
80.7
-
-
-
-
MMGA (Cai et al., 2019)
CVPR2019
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
95
87.2
89.5
78.1
SGSFA (Ren et al., 2020)
PMLR2020
62.3
47.4
63.1
53.2
68.2
-
-
-
92.3
80.2
84.7
70.8
SORN (Zhang et al., 2020)
TCSVT2020
57.6
46.3
-
-
76.7
84.3
79.8
86.6
94.8
84.5
86.9
74.1
SPReID (Kalayeh et al., 2018)
CVPR2017
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
94.63
90.96
88.96
84.99
Attribute
Annotation
ASAN (Jin et al., 2021)
TCSVT2021
55.40
43.80
82.50
71.80
86.80
93.50
81.70
88.30
94.60
85.30
87.50
76.30
Mixing
Method
FGSA (Zhou et al., 2020a)
TIP2020
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
91.50
85.40
85.90
74.10
GASM (He & Liu, 2020)
ECCV2020
-
-
80.30
73.10
-
-
-
-
95.30
84.70
88.30
74.40
PGFA (Miao et al., 2019)
ICCV2019
-
-
-
-
68.80
80.00
69.10
80.90
91.20
76.80
82.60
65.50
SSPReID (Quispe & Pedrini, 2019)
IVC 2019
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
93.70
90.80
86.40
83.70
LKWS (Yang et al., 2021)
ICCV2021
62.2
46.3
81
71
85.7
93.7
80.7
88.2
-
-
-
-
TSA (Gao et al., 2020a)
ACM MM2020
-
-
-
-
72.70
85.20
73.90
84.70
-
-
-
-
and RGB image simultaneously, and remove the interference
of noise by the attention mechanism and other methods.
CMD (Hafner et al., 2022) proposes an approach com-
bining embedding representation and feature distillation. It
removes noise through a gate-controlled attention mecha-
nism. This mechanism uses one modality to dynamically
activate the more discriminative features in another modality
by gating signals.
RGB-Text multimodal Re-ID. RGB-Text multimodal
Re-ID aims to introduce text data to enhance feature rep-
resentation by sharing semantic information and attentional
calibration to eliminate the effect of noise.In daily life, text
information is one of the most frequently used types of
information. When image information is missing or cannot
be used owing to obstacles, it can be supplemented with text.
AXM-Net (Farooq et al., 2022) dynamically exploits
multi-scale information of text and images, recalibrating
each modality according to the shared semantics and adding
contextual attention to the text branch to supplement the
information of the convolution block. Furthermore, atten-
tion is introduced to enhance feature consistency and local
information of the visual part. It can learn the alignment se-
mantic information of different modalities and automatically
remove the interference of irrelevant information.
5. Method Comparison
We statistically evaluate the results of the occluded per-
son Re-ID methods on two general datasets (Market1501
(Zheng et al., 2015a), DukeMTMC-reID (Ristani et al.,
2016)), two occluded person Re-ID datasets (Occluded-
DukeMTMC (Miao et al., 2019), Occluded-REID (Zheng
et al., 2015b)) and two partial person Re-ID datasets (Partial-
ReID (Zheng et al., 2015b), Partial-iLIDS (He et al., 2018)).
We simply divide them into three categories: The experi-
mental results based on the local feature learning method
are shown in Table 2. It contains body segmentation, pose
estimation, semantic segmentation, attribute annotation, and
mixing method. The experimental results based on the rela-
tionship representation method are shown in Table 3. It con-
tains shared area, clustering, figure convolution, and atten-
tion. The experimental results of other methods are shown
in Table 4. It contains the transformer, mixing method,
multi-scale, regional reconfiguration, data enhancement, and
regularization. For an introduction to each class of methods
and details of each study, the reader is referred to Section 4.
From the results we can get the following informa-
tion: (1) From the results we can get the following in-
formation: OCNet (Kim et al., 2022) based on local fea-
ture learning, QPM (Wang et al., 2022b) based on rela-
tional representation, DPM (Tan et al., 2022b) and PFD
(Wang et al., 2022d) based on transformer perform better on
the Occluded-DukeMTMC dataset. On the Occluded-REID
dataset, HPNet (Huang et al., 2020) based on local feature
learning, HOReID (Wang et al., 2020a) based on relational
representation, FED (Wang et al., 2022g) and PFD (Wang
et al., 2022d) based on transformer perform stably. On the
Partial-ReID dataset, ASAN (Jin et al., 2021) and LKWS
(Yang et al., 2021) based on local feature learning, MHSA-
Net (Tan et al., 2022a) based on relational representation,
and FRT (Xu et al., 2022) based on transformer achieve
better performance. On the Partial-iLIDS dataset, ASAN
(Jin et al., 2021) based on local feature learning, MHSA-
Net (Tan et al., 2022a) and QPM (Wang et al., 2022b)
based on relational representation, ACSAP (He et al., 2021c)
based on region reconstruction, and OAMN (Chen et al.,
2021c) based on data augmentation achieve very stable per-
formance. Therefore, there is no single method that achieves
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 11 of 17

Short Title of the Article
Table 3
Comparison of experimental results based on relationship representation methods. The red numbers indicate the best results.(in
%).
Occluded-Duke
Occluded-REID
Partial-REID
Partial-iLIDS
Market1501
DukeMTMC-reID
Method
Venue
Rank-1
mAP
Rank-1
mAP
Rank-1
Rank-3
Rank-1
Rank-3
Rank-1
mAP
Rank-1
mAP
Relationship
Representation
Shared
Area
KBFM (Han et al., 2020)
ICIP2020
-
-
-
-
69.7
82.2
64.1
73.9
-
-
-
-
PPCL (He et al., 2021b)
CVPR2021
-
-
-
-
83.70
88.70
71.40
85.70
-
-
-
-
VPM (Sun et al., 2019b)
CVPR2019
-
-
-
-
67.70
81.90
65.50
74.80
90.40
75.70
-
-
Clustering
ISP (Zhu et al., 2020)
ECCV2020
62.80
52.30
-
-
-
-
-
-
94.63
90.69
88.96
84.99
Figure
Convolution
HOReID (Wang et al., 2020a)
CVPR2020
-
-
80.3
70.2
85.3
91
72.6
86.4
94.2
84.9
86.9
75.6
Attention
AACN (Xu et al., 2018)
CVPR2018
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
88.69
82.96
76.84
59.25
APN (Huo et al., 2021)
ICPR2021
-
-
-
-
71.80
85.50
66.40
76.50
96.00
89.00
89.50
79.20
CASN (Zheng et al., 2019)
CVPR2019
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
94.40
82.80
87.70
73.70
Co-Attention (Lin & Wang, 2021)
ICIP2021
-
-
-
-
83.00
90.30
73.10
83.20
-
-
-
-
DAReID (Xu et al., 2021)
KBS2021
63.4
-
-
-
68.1
79.5
76.7
85.3
94.6
87
88.9
78.4
DSOP (Wang et al., 2020b)
JPCS2020
57.70
45.30
-
-
-
-
-
-
95.40
85.90
88.20
77.00
MHSA-Net (Tan et al., 2022a)
TNNLS2022
59.70
44.80
-
-
85.70
91.30
74.90
87.20
95.50
93.00
90.70
87.20
OCNet (Kim et al., 2022)
ICASSP2022
64.30
54.40
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
PAFM (Yang et al., 2022)
NCA2022
55.1
42.3
76.4
68
82.5
-
-
-
95.6
88.5
91.2
80.1
PISNet (Zhao et al., 2020)
ECCV2020
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
95.60
87.10
88.80
78.70
PSE (Sarfraz et al., 2018)
CVPR2018
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
90.30
84.00
85.20
79.80
QPM (Wang et al., 2022b)
ITM2022
64.40
49.70
-
-
81.70
88.00
77.30
85.70
-
-
-
-
VPM (Sun et al., 2019b)
CVPR2019
-
-
-
-
67.70
81.90
65.50
74.80
90.40
75.70
-
-
Table 4
Comparison of experimental results with other methods. The red numbers indicate the best results.(in %).
Occluded-Duke
Occluded-REID
Partial-REID
Partial-iLIDS
Market1501
DukeMTMC-reID
Method
Venue
Rank-1
mAP
Rank-1
mAP
Rank-1
Rank-3
Rank-1
Rank-3
Rank-1
mAP
Rank-1
mAP
Transformer
DPM (Tan et al., 2022b)
ACM MM 2022
71.40
61.80
85.50
79.70
-
-
-
-
95.50
89.70
91.00
82.60
FED (Wang et al., 2022g)
CVPR2022
68.10
56.40
86.30
79.30
83.10
-
-
-
95.00
86.30
89.40
78.00
FRT (Xu et al., 2022)
TIP2022
70.70
61.30
80.40
71.00
88.20
93.20
73.00
87.00
95.50
88.10
90.50
81.70
TransReID (He et al., 2021a)
ICCV2021
66.40
59.20
-
-
-
-
-
-
95.20
88.90
90.70
82.00
PFD (Wang et al., 2022d)
AAAI2022
69.50
61.80
81.50
83.00
-
-
-
-
95.50
89.70
91.20
83.20
PFT (Zhao et al., 2022)
NCA2022
69.80
60.80
83.00
78.30
81.30
79.90
68.10
81.50
95.30
88.80
90.70
82.10
Mixing
Method
DRL-Net (Jia et al., 2022)
TMM2021
65.80
53.90
-
-
-
-
-
-
94.70
86.90
88.10
76.60
Pirt (Ma et al., 2021)
ACMMM2021
60.00
50.90
-
-
-
-
-
-
94.10
86.30
88.90
77.60
Multiscale
DSR (He et al., 2018)
CVPR2018
40.80
30.40
72.80
62.80
50.70
70.00
58.80
67.20
83.58
64.25
-
-
FPR (He et al., 2019)
ICCV2019
-
-
78.30
68.00
81.00
-
68.10
-
95.42
86.58
88.64
78.42
Regional
Reconfiguration
ACSAP (He et al., 2021c)
ICIP2021
-
-
-
-
77.00
83.70
76.50
87.40
-
-
-
-
RFCNet (Hou et al., 2021)
TPAMI2021
63.90
54.50
-
-
-
-
-
-
95.20
89.20
90.70
80.70
Data
Enhancement
IGOAS (Zhao et al., 2021)
TIP2021
60.10
49.40
81.10
-
-
-
-
-
93.40
84.10
86.90
75.10
OAMN (Chen et al., 2021c)
ICCV2021
62.60
46.10
-
-
86.00
-
77.30
-
93.20
79.80
86.30
72.60
SSGR (Yan et al., 2021)
ICCV2021
65.80
57.20
78.50
72.90
-
-
-
-
96.10
89.30
91.10
81.30
Regularization
MHSA-Net (Tan et al., 2022a)
TNNLS2022
59.70
44.80
-
-
85.70
91.30
74.90
87.20
95.50
93.00
90.70
87.20
the best performance on all datasets. (2) In general, the
performance on the occlusion dataset reflects the ability of
the model to resist noise, the performance on the partial
dataset reflects the recognition ability of the model under
the condition of missing pedestrian information, and the
performance on the general dataset reflects the comprehen-
sive performance of the model. Each of these approaches
addresses one or more specific problems. (3) Attention and
pose estimation are the more mainstream and typical of the
many pedestrian re-identification methods for dealing with
occlusion. Attribute annotation-based, clustering-based, fig-
ure convolution-based and regularisation-based methods, on
the other hand, have received less attention.
6. Future directions
6.1. Richer, higher quality datasets
Most models are evaluated on datasets collected in con-
trolled environments. The data in real-world scenarios is
often uncontrollable, which can significantly impact the
model’s performance on such datasets.
For an occluded person Re-ID dataset, it is necessary to
incorporate one or more modal inputs, including a diverse
combination of images, text, infrared maps, and depth maps.
This enables the model to effectively handle a wider range
of realistic occlusion scenarios. Moreover, there is a lack of
larger datasets encompassing a broader range of domains,
environments (Gou et al., 2018), and higher resolutions,
which would provide richer content and higher quality for
research purposes.
6.2. More robust and varied feature extraction
3D Re-ID. Inspired by human three-dimensional cogni-
tion, some researchers believe that the complete pedestrian
representation should be a fusion of 3D and 2D (Zheng et al.,
2022).
At present, PointNet (Qi et al., 2017), as a representative
of deep learning methods in point cloud feature extraction
(Wang et al., 2022a; CS et al., 2022), has demonstrated
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 12 of 17

Short Title of the Article
promising results. Point cloud completion (Fei et al., 2022)
and point cloud correction can aid in 3D occluded person Re-
ID, while 3D pose estimation (Wang et al., 2021b) and 3D
semantic segmentation (Xie et al., 2020) can guide the fea-
ture extraction process for person Re-ID. However, research
in the 3D domain for pedestrian recognition (Zhao et al.,
2013; Sun et al., 2019b) is still relatively limited compared to
the advancements in 2D approaches. Therefore, 3D occluded
person Re-ID represents a significant and promising research
direction for the future (Tirkolaee et al., 2020).
Multimodal Re-ID. The information captured from dif-
ferent modalities demonstrates a significant diversity in con-
tent representation (Wu et al., 2017b,a). Improving the in-
teraction, fusion, and extraction of more comprehensive
pedestrian features at both the data and feature extraction
stages represents a crucial research direction for future ad-
vancements (Tutsoy & Tanrikulu, 2022; Sekhar et al., 2017).
Cross-resolution occluded person Re-ID. Owing to
the influence of the distance and pixel size of the collection
device, the resolution of the collected samples is uneven,
and the feature space correspondence is also inconsistent
(Li et al., 2019). At the same time, low resolution will lose
significant spatial and detail information (Mao et al., 2019).
How to extract pedestrian features at different resolutions
under occlusion conditions is a problem to be solved in the
future.
Fast response, smaller occlusion person Re-ID model.
Constructing smaller (Zhou et al., 2019; Li et al., 2018) and
faster (Liu et al., 2017) occluded person Re-ID models with
reduced parameters is a crucial research direction for future
advancements (Tutsoy et al., 2018).
Unsupervised and semi-supervised occluded person
Re-ID. The complex manual labeling process is omitted,
and the pedestrian features are learned by using the datasets
without labels (Zhang & Lu, 2018; Liu et al., 2019) or with a
small number of labels (Wang et al., 2019c,a; Nagaraju et al.,
2016).
Currently, the performance of unsupervised and semi-
supervised based methods on the task of occluded person
Re-ID is still some way off compared to supervised meth-
ods. Supervised methods usually rely on large-scale labelled
datasets for training and thus can achieve high performance.
However, as unsupervised and semi-supervised methods are
increasingly studied, they show significant potential in im-
proving the generalisation of occluded person Re-ID models.
6.3. Occluded person Re-ID system
At present, few researchers combine object detection
and occluded person Re-ID together. The end-to-end person
Re-ID systems are lacking, and the integrated system has
more applications in real life (Martinel et al., 2016). How to
combine the two more effectively and rationally and design
a occluded person Re-ID system that is more robust to
occlusion is an important research direction.
7. Conclusion
This review offers a comprehensive and integrated anal-
ysis and discussion of deep learning methods for occluded
person Re-ID, addressing both practical and research-driven
requirements. Firstly, we introduce the classification of oc-
clusion problems and the datasets specifically designed for
occluded person Re-ID. Secondly, we comprehensively clas-
sify and introduce the methods proposed in top interna-
tional journals and conferences before 2023 for address-
ing occluded person Re-ID. Finally, the future prospects
of occluded person Re-ID are analyzed from data, fea-
ture, and system perspectives, respectively. In this study,
we categorize the most significant image feature extraction
methods into five major categories: local feature learning,
relational representation, transformer-based methods, mix-
ing methods, and other approaches. This review will assist
researchers in comprehending the process and objectives
of these methods, providing valuable references and con-
tributing to the research significance in the advancement of
occluded Re-ID.
References
Bedagkar-Gala, A. & Shah, S. K. (2014). A survey of approaches and trends
in person re-identification. Image and vision computing, 32(4), 270–286.
Cai, H., Wang, Z., & Cheng, J. (2019). Multi-scale body-part mask guided
attention for person re-identification. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Workshops
(pp. 0–0).
Cai, X., Liu, L., Zhu, L., & Zhang, H. (2021).
Dual-modality hard
mining triplet-center loss for visible infrared person re-identification.
Knowledge-Based Systems, 215, 106772.
Chen, C., Ye, M., Qi, M., Wu, J., Jiang, J., & Lin, C.-W. (2022). Structure-
aware positional transformer for visible-infrared person re-identification.
IEEE Transactions on Image Processing, 31, 2352–2364.
Chen, H., Wang, Y., Lagadec, B., Dantcheva, A., & Bremond, F. (2021a).
Joint generative and contrastive learning for unsupervised person re-
identification. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer
vision and pattern recognition (pp. 2004–2013).
Chen, J., Jiang, X., Wang, F., Zhang, J., Zheng, F., Sun, X., & Zheng, W.-
S. (2021b).
Learning 3d shape feature for texture-insensitive person
re-identification.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (pp. 8146–8155).
Chen, L.-C., Zhu, Y., Papandreou, G., Schroff, F., & Adam, H. (2018).
Encoder-decoder with atrous separable convolution for semantic image
segmentation. In Proceedings of the European conference on computer
vision (ECCV) (pp. 801–818).
Chen, P., Liu, W., Dai, P., Liu, J., Ye, Q., Xu, M., Chen, Q., & Ji, R.
(2021c).
Occlude them all: Occlusion-aware attention network for
occluded person re-id. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF international
conference on computer vision (pp. 11833–11842).
Cheng, D. S., Cristani, M., Stoppa, M., Bazzani, L., & Murino, V. (2011).
Custom pictorial structures for re-identification.
In Bmvc, volume 1
(pp.˜6).: Citeseer.
CS, W., H, W., X, N., SW, T., & WJ, L. (2022). 3d point cloud classification
method based on dynamic coverage of local area. Journal of Software,
(pp. 0–0).
Dong, N., Zhang, L., Yan, S., Tang, H., & Tang, J. (2023).
Erasing,
transforming, and noising defense network for occluded person re-
identification. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.07187.
Dosovitskiy, A., Beyer, L., Kolesnikov, A., Weissenborn, D., Zhai, X.,
Unterthiner, T., Dehghani, M., Minderer, M., Heigold, G., Gelly, S.,
et al. (2020). An image is worth 16x16 words: Transformers for image
recognition at scale. arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.11929.
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 13 of 17

Short Title of the Article
Ess, A., Leibe, B., Schindler, K., & Van Gool, L. (2008). A mobile vision
system for robust multi-person tracking. In 2008 IEEE Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (pp. 1–8).: IEEE.
Farooq, A., Awais, M., Kittler, J., & Khalid, S. S. (2022). Axm-net: Implicit
cross-modal feature alignment for person re-identification. In Proceed-
ings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, volume 36 (pp.
4477–4485).
Fei, B., Yang, W., Chen, W.-M., Li, Z., Li, Y., Ma, T., Hu, X., & Ma, L.
(2022). Comprehensive review of deep learning-based 3d point cloud
completion processing and analysis. IEEE Transactions on Intelligent
Transportation Systems.
Fu, J., Liu, J., Tian, H., Li, Y., Bao, Y., Fang, Z., & Lu, H. (2019).
Dual attention network for scene segmentation. In Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition (pp.
3146–3154).
Gao, L., Zhang, H., Gao, Z., Guan, W., Cheng, Z., & Wang, M. (2020a).
Texture semantically aligned with visibility-aware for partial person re-
identification. In Proceedings of the 28th ACM International Conference
on Multimedia (pp. 3771–3779).
Gao, S., Wang, J., Lu, H., & Liu, Z. (2020b).
Pose-guided visible part
matching for occluded person reid. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
conference on computer vision and pattern recognition (pp. 11744–
11752).
Gou, M., Wu, Z., Rates-Borras, A., Camps, O., Radke, R. J., et al. (2018).
A systematic evaluation and benchmark for person re-identification:
Features, metrics, and datasets. IEEE transactions on pattern analysis
and machine intelligence, 41(3), 523–536.
Güler, R. A., Neverova, N., & Kokkinos, I. (2018).
Densepose: Dense
human pose estimation in the wild.
In Proceedings of the IEEE
conference on computer vision and pattern recognition (pp. 7297–7306).
Hafner, F. M., Bhuyian, A., Kooij, J. F., & Granger, E. (2022). Cross-modal
distillation for rgb-depth person re-identification. Computer Vision and
Image Understanding, 216, 103352.
Han, C., Gao, C., & Sang, N. (2020). Keypoint-based feature matching for
partial person re-identification. In 2020 IEEE International Conference
on Image Processing (ICIP) (pp. 226–230).: IEEE.
He, K., Zhang, X., Ren, S., & Sun, J. (2016). Deep residual learning for
image recognition. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer
vision and pattern recognition (pp. 770–778).
He, L., Liang, J., Li, H., & Sun, Z. (2018). Deep spatial feature recon-
struction for partial person re-identification: Alignment-free approach.
In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition (pp. 7073–7082).
He, L. & Liu, W. (2020). Guided saliency feature learning for person re-
identification in crowded scenes. In Computer Vision–ECCV 2020: 16th
European Conference, Glasgow, UK, August 23–28, 2020, Proceedings,
Part XXVIII 16 (pp. 357–373).: Springer.
He, L., Wang, Y., Liu, W., Zhao, H., Sun, Z., & Feng, J. (2019). Foreground-
aware pyramid reconstruction for alignment-free occluded person re-
identification. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF international conference
on computer vision (pp. 8450–8459).
He, S., Luo, H., Wang, P., Wang, F., Li, H., & Jiang, W. (2021a). Tran-
sreid: Transformer-based object re-identification. In Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF international conference on computer vision (pp. 15013–
15022).
He, T., Shen, X., Huang, J., Chen, Z., & Hua, X.-S. (2021b).
Partial
person re-identification with part-part correspondence learning.
In
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition (pp. 9105–9115).
He, Y., Yang, H., & Chen, L. (2021c). Adversarial cross-scale alignment
pursuit for seriously misaligned person re-identification. In 2021 IEEE
International Conference on Image Processing (ICIP) (pp. 2373–2377).:
IEEE.
Hou, R., Ma, B., Chang, H., Gu, X., Shan, S., & Chen, X. (2021). Feature
completion for occluded person re-identification. IEEE Transactions on
Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, 44(9), 4894–4912.
Huang, H., Chen, X., & Huang, K. (2020). Human parsing based alignment
with multi-task learning for occluded person re-identification. In 2020
IEEE international conference on multimedia and expo (ICME) (pp. 1–
6).: IEEE.
Huang, H., Zheng, A., Li, C., He, R., et al. (2022). Parallel augmentation
and dual enhancement for occluded person re-identification.
arXiv
preprint arXiv:2210.05438.
Huo, L., Song, C., Liu, Z., & Zhang, Z. (2021).
Attentive part-aware
networks for partial person re-identification. In 2020 25th International
Conference on Pattern Recognition (ICPR) (pp. 3652–3659).: IEEE.
Islam, K. (2022). Recent advances in vision transformer: A survey and
outlook of recent work. arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.01536.
Jia, M., Cheng, X., Lu, S., & Zhang, J. (2022).
Learning disentan-
gled representation implicitly via transformer for occluded person re-
identification. IEEE Transactions on Multimedia.
Jin, H., Lai, S., & Qian, X. (2021).
Occlusion-sensitive person re-
identification via attribute-based shift attention. IEEE Transactions on
Circuits and Systems for Video Technology, 32(4), 2170–2185.
Kalayeh, M. M., Basaran, E., Gökmen, M., Kamasak, M. E., & Shah,
M. (2018). Human semantic parsing for person re-identification. In
Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition (pp. 1062–1071).
Kanazawa, A., Black, M. J., Jacobs, D. W., & Malik, J. (2018). End-to-
end recovery of human shape and pose. In Proceedings of the IEEE
conference on computer vision and pattern recognition (pp. 7122–7131).
Khan, S., Naseer, M., Hayat, M., Zamir, S. W., Khan, F. S., & Shah, M.
(2022).
Transformers in vision: A survey.
ACM computing surveys
(CSUR), 54(10s), 1–41.
Kim, J. & Yoo, C. D. (2017).
Deep partial person re-identification via
attention model.
In 2017 IEEE International Conference on Image
Processing (ICIP) (pp. 3425–3429).: IEEE.
Kim, M., Cho, M., Lee, H., Cho, S., & Lee, S. (2022).
Occluded per-
son re-identification via relational adaptive feature correction learning.
In ICASSP 2022-2022 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics,
Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP) (pp. 2719–2723).: IEEE.
Kiran, M., Praveen, R. G., Nguyen-Meidine, L. T., Belharbi, S., Blais-
Morin, L.-A., & Granger, E. (2021).
Holistic guidance for occluded
person re-identification. arXiv preprint arXiv:2104.06524.
Lavi, B., Ullah, I., Fatan, M., & Rocha, A. (2020). Survey on reliable deep
learning-based person re-identification models: Are we there yet? arXiv
preprint arXiv:2005.00355.
Leng, Q., Ye, M., & Tian, Q. (2019). A survey of open-world person re-
identification.
IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video
Technology, 30(4), 1092–1108.
Li, W., Zhao, R., Xiao, T., & Wang, X. (2014). Deepreid: Deep filter pairing
neural network for person re-identification. In Proceedings of the IEEE
conference on computer vision and pattern recognition (pp. 152–159).
Li, W., Zhu, X., & Gong, S. (2018). Harmonious attention network for
person re-identification.
In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on
computer vision and pattern recognition (pp. 2285–2294).
Li, Y., Jiang, X., & Hwang, J.-N. (2020). Effective person re-identification
by self-attention model guided feature learning.
Knowledge-Based
Systems, 187, 104832.
Li, Y., Liu, L., Zhu, L., & Zhang, H. (2021).
Person re-identification
based on multi-scale feature learning. Knowledge-Based Systems, 228,
107281.
Li, Y.-J., Chen, Y.-C., Lin, Y.-Y., Du, X., & Wang, Y.-C. F. (2019). Recover
and identify: A generative dual model for cross-resolution person re-
identification. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF international conference
on computer vision (pp. 8090–8099).
Liang, X., Gong, K., Shen, X., & Lin, L. (2018). Look into person: Joint
body parsing & pose estimation network and a new benchmark. IEEE
transactions on pattern analysis and machine intelligence, 41(4), 871–
885.
Lin, C.-S. & Wang, Y.-C. F. (2021).
Self-supervised bodymap-to-
appearance co-attention for partial person re-identification.
In 2021
IEEE International Conference on Image Processing (ICIP) (pp. 2299–
2303).: IEEE.
Lin, T.-Y., Maire, M., Belongie, S., Hays, J., Perona, P., Ramanan, D.,
Dollár, P., & Zitnick, C. L. (2014). Microsoft coco: Common objects in
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 14 of 17

Short Title of the Article
context. In Computer Vision–ECCV 2014: 13th European Conference,
Zurich, Switzerland, September 6-12, 2014, Proceedings, Part V 13 (pp.
740–755).: Springer.
Liu, H., Feng, J., Jie, Z., Jayashree, K., Zhao, B., Qi, M., Jiang, J., & Yan,
S. (2017). Neural person search machines. In Proceedings of the IEEE
International Conference on Computer Vision (pp. 493–501).
Liu, J., Zha, Z.-J., Hong, R., Wang, M., & Zhang, Y. (2019).
Deep
adversarial graph attention convolution network for text-based person
search. In Proceedings of the 27th ACM International Conference on
Multimedia (pp. 665–673).
Liu, Q., Teng, Q., Chen, H., Li, B., & Qing, L. (2022). Dual adaptive align-
ment and partitioning network for visible and infrared cross-modality
person re-identification. Applied Intelligence, 52(1), 547–563.
Liu, Z., Lin, Y., Cao, Y., Hu, H., Wei, Y., Zhang, Z., Lin, S., & Guo, B.
(2021). Swin transformer: Hierarchical vision transformer using shifted
windows. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF international conference on
computer vision (pp. 10012–10022).
Loper, M., Mahmood, N., Romero, J., Pons-Moll, G., & Black, M. J. (2015).
Smpl: A skinned multi-person linear model.
ACM transactions on
graphics (TOG), 34(6), 1–16.
Luo, H., Jiang, W., Gu, Y., Liu, F., Liao, X., Lai, S., & Gu, J. (2019).
A strong baseline and batch normneuralization neck for deep person
reidentification. arXiv preprint arXiv:1906.08332.
Ma, Z., Zhao, Y., & Li, J. (2021). Pose-guided inter-and intra-part relational
transformer for occluded person re-identification. In Proceedings of the
29th ACM International Conference on Multimedia (pp. 1487–1496).
Mao, S., Zhang, S., & Yang, M. (2019). Resolution-invariant person re-
identification. arXiv preprint arXiv:1906.09748.
Martinel, N., Das, A., Micheloni, C., & Roy-Chowdhury, A. K. (2016).
Temporal model adaptation for person re-identification.
In Com-
puter Vision–ECCV 2016: 14th European Conference, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands, October 11–14, 2016, Proceedings, Part IV 14 (pp. 858–
877).: Springer.
Miao, J., Wu, Y., Liu, P., Ding, Y., & Yang, Y. (2019). Pose-guided feature
alignment for occluded person re-identification. In Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF international conference on computer vision (pp. 542–551).
Miao, J., Wu, Y., & Yang, Y. (2021). Identifying visible parts via pose
estimation for occluded person re-identification. IEEE transactions on
neural networks and learning systems, 33(9), 4624–4634.
Ming, Z., Zhu, M., Wang, X., Zhu, J., Cheng, J., Gao, C., Yang, Y., &
Wei, X. (2022). Deep learning-based person re-identification methods:
A survey and outlook of recent works. Image and Vision Computing,
119, 104394.
Nagaraju, G., Raju, G. S. R., Ko, Y. H., & Yu, J. S. (2016). Hierarchical
ni–co layered double hydroxide nanosheets entrapped on conductive
textile fibers: a cost-effective and flexible electrode for high-performance
pseudocapacitors. Nanoscale, 8(2), 812–825.
Nguyen, D. T., Hong, H. G., Kim, K. W., & Park, K. R. (2017). Person
recognition system based on a combination of body images from visible
light and thermal cameras. Sensors, 17(3), 605.
Ning, X., Gong, K., Li, W., & Zhang, L. (2021). Jwsaa: joint weak saliency
and attention aware for person re-identification. Neurocomputing, 453,
801–811.
Ning, X., Gong, K., Li, W., Zhang, L., Bai, X., & Tian, S. (2020a).
Feature refinement and filter network for person re-identification. IEEE
Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology, 31(9),
3391–3402.
Ning, X., Nan, F., Xu, S., Yu, L., & Zhang, L. (2020b).
Multi-view
frontal face image generation: a survey. Concurrency and Computation:
Practice and Experience, (pp. e6147).
Park, H., Lee, S., Lee, J., & Ham, B. (2021). Learning by aligning: Visible-
infrared person re-identification using cross-modal correspondences. In
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF international conference on computer
vision (pp. 12046–12055).
Peng, Y., Hou, S., Cao, C., Liu, X., Huang, Y., & He, Z. (2022). Deep
learning-based occluded person re-identification: A survey.
arXiv
preprint arXiv:2207.14452.
Qi, C. R., Su, H., Mo, K., & Guibas, L. J. (2017). Pointnet: Deep learning
on point sets for 3d classification and segmentation. In Proceedings of
the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition (pp.
652–660).
Quispe, R. & Pedrini, H. (2019). Improved person re-identification based on
saliency and semantic parsing with deep neural network models. Image
and Vision Computing, 92, 103809.
Ren, X., Zhang, D., & Bao, X. (2020). Semantic-guided shared feature
alignment for occluded person re-identification. In Asian Conference on
Machine Learning (pp. 17–32).: PMLR.
Ristani, E., Solera, F., Zou, R., Cucchiara, R., & Tomasi, C. (2016).
Performance measures and a data set for multi-target, multi-camera
tracking. In Computer Vision–ECCV 2016 Workshops: Amsterdam, The
Netherlands, October 8-10 and 15-16, 2016, Proceedings, Part II (pp.
17–35).: Springer.
Sarfraz, M. S., Schumann, A., Eberle, A., & Stiefelhagen, R. (2018). A
pose-sensitive embedding for person re-identification with expanded
cross neighborhood re-ranking. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference
on computer vision and pattern recognition (pp. 420–429).
Sekhar, S. C., Nagaraju, G., & Yu, J. S. (2017).
Conductive silver
nanowires-fenced carbon cloth fibers-supported layered double hy-
droxide nanosheets as a flexible and binder-free electrode for high-
performance asymmetric supercapacitors. Nano Energy, 36, 58–67.
Shamshad, F., Khan, S., Zamir, S. W., Khan, M. H., Hayat, M., Khan, F. S.,
& Fu, H. (2023). Transformers in medical imaging: A survey. Medical
Image Analysis, (pp. 102802).
Su, C., Li, J., Zhang, S., Xing, J., Gao, W., & Tian, Q. (2017). Pose-driven
deep convolutional model for person re-identification. In Proceedings of
the IEEE international conference on computer vision (pp. 3960–3969).
Sun, K., Xiao, B., Liu, D., & Wang, J. (2019a).
Deep high-resolution
representation learning for human pose estimation. In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition
(pp. 5693–5703).
Sun, X. & Zheng, L. (2019). Dissecting person re-identification from the
viewpoint of viewpoint. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on
computer vision and pattern recognition (pp. 608–617).
Sun, Y., Xu, Q., Li, Y., Zhang, C., Li, Y., Wang, S., & Sun, J. (2019b).
Perceive where to focus: Learning visibility-aware part-level features
for partial person re-identification. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
conference on computer vision and pattern recognition (pp. 393–402).
Sun, Y., Zheng, L., Yang, Y., Tian, Q., & Wang, S. (2018).
Beyond
part models: Person retrieval with refined part pooling (and a strong
convolutional baseline). In Proceedings of the European conference on
computer vision (ECCV) (pp. 480–496).
Szegedy, C., Vanhoucke, V., Ioffe, S., Shlens, J., & Wojna, Z. (2016). Re-
thinking the inception architecture for computer vision. In Proceedings
of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition (pp.
2818–2826).
Tan, H., Liu, X., Bian, Y., Wang, H., & Yin, B. (2021).
Incomplete
descriptor mining with elastic loss for person re-identification. IEEE
Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology, 32(1), 160–
171.
Tan, H., Liu, X., Yin, B., & Li, X. (2022a). Mhsa-net: Multihead self-
attention network for occluded person re-identification. IEEE Transac-
tions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems.
Tan, L., Dai, P., Ji, R., & Wu, Y. (2022b). Dynamic prototype mask for
occluded person re-identification.
In Proceedings of the 30th ACM
International Conference on Multimedia (pp. 531–540).
Tirkolaee, E. B., Goli, A., & Weber, G.-W. (2020). Fuzzy mathematical
programming and self-adaptive artificial fish swarm algorithm for just-
in-time energy-aware flow shop scheduling problem with outsourcing
option. IEEE transactions on fuzzy systems, 28(11), 2772–2783.
Tutsoy, O., Barkana, D. E., & Tugal, H. (2018).
Design of a com-
pletely model free adaptive control in the presence of parametric, non-
parametric uncertainties and random control signal delay. ISA transac-
tions, 76, 67–77.
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 15 of 17

Short Title of the Article
Tutsoy, O. & Tanrikulu, M. Y. (2022). Priority and age specific vaccination
algorithm for the pandemic diseases: a comprehensive parametric pre-
diction model. BMC Medical Informatics and Decision Making, 22(1),
4.
Wang, C., Ning, X., Sun, L., Zhang, L., Li, W., & Bai, X. (2022a). Learning
discriminative features by covering local geometric space for point cloud
analysis. IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, 60,
1–15.
Wang, C., Wang, C., Li, W., & Wang, H. (2021a). A brief survey on rgb-d
semantic segmentation using deep learning. Displays, 70, 102080.
Wang, G., Yang, S., Liu, H., Wang, Z., Yang, Y., Wang, S., Yu, G., Zhou,
E., & Sun, J. (2020a). High-order information matters: Learning relation
and topology for occluded person re-identification. In Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition (pp.
6449–6458).
Wang, G., Zhang, T., Cheng, J., Liu, S., Yang, Y., & Hou, Z. (2019a).
Rgb-infrared cross-modality person re-identification via joint pixel and
feature alignment.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International
Conference on Computer Vision (pp. 3623–3632).
Wang, J., Tan, S., Zhen, X., Xu, S., Zheng, F., He, Z., & Shao, L. (2021b).
Deep 3d human pose estimation: A review. Computer Vision and Image
Understanding, 210, 103225.
Wang, P., Ding, C., Shao, Z., Hong, Z., Zhang, S., & Tao, D. (2022b).
Quality-aware part models for occluded person re-identification. IEEE
Transactions on Multimedia.
Wang, Q., Huang, H., Zhong, Y., Min, W., Han, Q., Xu, D., & Xu, C.
(2022c).
Swin transformer based on two-fold loss and background
adaptation re-ranking for person re-identification. Electronics, 11(13),
1941.
Wang, Q., Qi, M., Jin, K., & Jiang, J. (2020b). Deep-shallow occlusion
parallelism network for person re-identification. In Journal of Physics:
Conference Series, volume 1518 (pp. 012026).: IOP Publishing.
Wang, T., Liu, H., Song, P., Guo, T., & Shi, W. (2022d).
Pose-guided
feature disentangling for occluded person re-identification based on
transformer.
In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial
Intelligence, volume 36 (pp. 2540–2549).
Wang, X., Li, C., & Ma, X. (2022e). Cross-modal local shortest path and
global enhancement for visible-thermal person re-identification. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2206.04401.
Wang, Y., Liang, X., & Liao, S. (2022f). Cloning outfits from real-world
images to 3d characters for generalizable person re-identification. In
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition (pp. 4900–4909).
Wang, Z., Wang, Z., Wu, Y., Wang, J., & Satoh, S. (2019b). Beyond intra-
modality discrepancy: A comprehensive survey of heterogeneous person
re-identification. arXiv preprint arXiv:1905.10048, 4.
Wang, Z., Wang, Z., Zheng, Y., Chuang, Y.-Y., & Satoh, S. (2019c).
Learning to reduce dual-level discrepancy for infrared-visible person re-
identification. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer
vision and pattern recognition (pp. 618–626).
Wang, Z., Zhu, F., Tang, S., Zhao, R., He, L., & Song, J. (2022g). Feature
erasing and diffusion network for occluded person re-identification. In
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition (pp. 4754–4763).
Wen, X., Feng, X., Li, P., & Chen, W. (2022). Cross-modality collaborative
learning identified pedestrian. The Visual Computer, (pp. 1–16).
Wu, A., Zheng, W.-S., & Lai, J.-H. (2017a). Robust depth-based person
re-identification. IEEE Transactions on Image Processing, 26(6), 2588–
2603.
Wu, A., Zheng, W.-S., Yu, H.-X., Gong, S., & Lai, J. (2017b). Rgb-infrared
cross-modality person re-identification.
In Proceedings of the IEEE
international conference on computer vision (pp. 5380–5389).
Wu, Y., Lin, Y., Dong, X., Yan, Y., Ouyang, W., & Yang, Y. (2018). Exploit
the unknown gradually: One-shot video-based person re-identification
by stepwise learning.
In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on
computer vision and pattern recognition (pp. 5177–5186).
Xie, Y., Tian, J., & Zhu, X. X. (2020). Linking points with labels in 3d:
A review of point cloud semantic segmentation. IEEE Geoscience and
remote sensing magazine, 8(4), 38–59.
Xu, B., He, L., Liang, J., & Sun, Z. (2022).
Learning feature recovery
transformer for occluded person re-identification. IEEE Transactions
on Image Processing, 31, 4651–4662.
Xu, J., Zhao, R., Zhu, F., Wang, H., & Ouyang, W. (2018). Attention-aware
compositional network for person re-identification. In Proceedings of
the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition (pp.
2119–2128).
Xu, Y., Zhao, L., & Qin, F. (2021).
Dual attention-based method for
occluded person re-identification.
Knowledge-Based Systems, 212,
106554.
Yaghoubi, E., Kumar, A., & Proença, H. (2021). Sss-pr: A short survey
of surveys in person re-identification. Pattern Recognition Letters, 143,
50–57.
Yan, C., Pang, G., Jiao, J., Bai, X., Feng, X., & Shen, C. (2021). Occluded
person re-identification with single-scale global representations.
In
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer
Vision (pp. 11875–11884).
Yang, J., Zhang, C., Tang, Y., & Li, Z. (2022). Pafm: pose-drive attention
fusion mechanism for occluded person re-identification. Neural Com-
puting and Applications, 34(10), 8241–8252.
Yang, J., Zhang, J., Yu, F., Jiang, X., Zhang, M., Sun, X., Chen, Y.-C.,
& Zheng, W.-S. (2021). Learning to know where to see: A visibility-
aware approach for occluded person re-identification. In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF international conference on computer vision (pp. 11885–
11894).
Yang, W., Yan, Y., Chen, S., Zhang, X., & Wang, H. (2020).
Multi-
scale generative adversarial network for person reidentification under
occlusion. Journal of Software, 31(7), 1943–1958.
Ye, M., Chen, C., Shen, J., & Shao, L. (2021a). Dynamic tri-level relation
mining with attentive graph for visible infrared re-identification. IEEE
Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, 17, 386–398.
Ye, M., Shen, J., J. Crandall, D., Shao, L., & Luo, J. (2020).
Dy-
namic dual-attentive aggregation learning for visible-infrared person
re-identification.
In Computer Vision–ECCV 2020: 16th European
Conference, Glasgow, UK, August 23–28, 2020, Proceedings, Part XVII
16 (pp. 229–247).: Springer.
Ye, M., Shen, J., Lin, G., Xiang, T., Shao, L., & Hoi, S. C. (2021b).
Deep learning for person re-identification: A survey and outlook. IEEE
transactions on pattern analysis and machine intelligence, 44(6), 2872–
2893.
Zhai, Y., Han, X., Ma, W., Gou, X., & Xiao, G. (2021). Pgmanet: Pose-
guided mixed attention network for occluded person re-identification. In
2021 International Joint Conference on Neural Networks (IJCNN) (pp.
1–8).: IEEE.
Zhang, C., Liu, H., Guo, W., & Ye, M. (2021).
Multi-scale cascad-
ing network with compact feature learning for rgb-infrared person re-
identification. In 2020 25th International Conference on Pattern Recog-
nition (ICPR) (pp. 8679–8686).: IEEE.
Zhang, G., Chen, C., Chen, Y., Zhang, H., & Zheng, Y. (2022a). Fine-
grained-based multi-feature fusion for occluded person re-identification.
Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, 87,
103581.
Zhang, L., Guo, H., Zhu, K., Qiao, H., Huang, G., Zhang, S., Zhang, H.,
Sun, J., & Wang, J. (2022b). Hybrid modality metric learning for visible-
infrared person re-identification.
ACM Transactions on Multimedia
Computing, Communications, and Applications (TOMM), 18(1s), 1–15.
Zhang, Q., Dang, K., Lai, J.-H., Feng, Z., & Xie, X. (2022c). Modeling
3d layout for group re-identification. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (pp. 7512–
7520).
Zhang, X., Yan, Y., Xue, J.-H., Hua, Y., & Wang, H. (2020). Semantic-
aware occlusion-robust network for occluded person re-identification.
IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology, 31(7),
2764–2778.
Zhang, Y. & Lu, H. (2018).
Deep cross-modal projection learning for
image-text matching. In Proceedings of the European conference on
computer vision (ECCV) (pp. 686–701).
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 16 of 17

Short Title of the Article
Zhang, Z., Lan, C., Zeng, W., & Chen, Z. (2019). Densely semantically
aligned person re-identification.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
conference on computer vision and pattern recognition (pp. 667–676).
Zhao, C., Lv, X., Dou, S., Zhang, S., Wu, J., & Wang, L. (2021). Incremental
generative occlusion adversarial suppression network for person reid.
IEEE Transactions on Image Processing, 30, 4212–4224.
Zhao, R., Ouyang, W., & Wang, X. (2013). Unsupervised salience learning
for person re-identification. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on
computer vision and pattern recognition (pp. 3586–3593).
Zhao, S., Gao, C., Zhang, J., Cheng, H., Han, C., Jiang, X., Guo, X., Zheng,
W.-S., Sang, N., & Sun, X. (2020).
Do not disturb me: Person re-
identification under the interference of other pedestrians. In Computer
Vision–ECCV 2020: 16th European Conference, Glasgow, UK, August
23–28, 2020, Proceedings, Part VI 16 (pp. 647–663).: Springer.
Zhao, Y., Zhu, S., Wang, D., & Liang, Z. (2022). Short range correlation
transformer for occluded person re-identification. Neural computing and
applications, 34(20), 17633–17645.
Zheng, K., Lan, C., Zeng, W., Liu, J., Zhang, Z., & Zha, Z.-J. (2021).
Pose-guided feature learning with knowledge distillation for occluded
person re-identification. In Proceedings of the 29th ACM International
Conference on Multimedia (pp. 4537–4545).
Zheng, L., Shen, L., Tian, L., Wang, S., Wang, J., & Tian, Q. (2015a).
Scalable person re-identification: A benchmark. In Proceedings of the
IEEE international conference on computer vision (pp. 1116–1124).
Zheng, L., Yang, Y., & Hauptmann, A. G. (2016). Person re-identification:
Past, present and future. arXiv preprint arXiv:1610.02984.
Zheng, M., Karanam, S., Wu, Z., & Radke, R. J. (2019). Re-identification
with consistent attentive siamese networks.
In Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition (pp.
5735–5744).
Zheng, W.-S., Gong, S., & Xiang, T. (2011). Person re-identification by
probabilistic relative distance comparison.
In CVPR 2011 (pp. 649–
656).: IEEE.
Zheng, W.-S., Li, X., Xiang, T., Liao, S., Lai, J., & Gong, S. (2015b).
Partial person re-identification. In Proceedings of the IEEE international
conference on computer vision (pp. 4678–4686).
Zheng, Z., Wang, X., Zheng, N., & Yang, Y. (2022). Parameter-efficient
person re-identification in the 3d space. IEEE Transactions on Neural
Networks and Learning Systems.
Zheng, Z., Zheng, L., & Yang, Y. (2017). Unlabeled samples generated by
gan improve the person re-identification baseline in vitro. In Proceedings
of the IEEE international conference on computer vision (pp. 3754–
3762).
Zhong, Y., Wang, X., & Zhang, S. (2020a). Robust partial matching for
person search in the wild. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference
on computer vision and pattern recognition (pp. 6827–6835).
Zhong, Z., Zheng, L., Kang, G., Li, S., & Yang, Y. (2020b). Random erasing
data augmentation. In Proceedings of the AAAI conference on artificial
intelligence, volume 34 (pp. 13001–13008).
Zhou, K., Yang, Y., Cavallaro, A., & Xiang, T. (2019). Omni-scale feature
learning for person re-identification. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
international conference on computer vision (pp. 3702–3712).
Zhou, M., Liu, H., Lv, Z., Hong, W., & Chen, X. (2022).
Motion-
aware transformer for occluded person re-identification. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2202.04243.
Zhou, Q., Zhong, B., Lan, X., Sun, G., Zhang, Y., Zhang, B., & Ji,
R. (2020a).
Fine-grained spatial alignment model for person re-
identification with focal triplet loss.
IEEE Transactions on Image
Processing, 29, 7578–7589.
Zhou, S., Wu, J., Zhang, F., & Sehdev, P. (2020b). Depth occlusion percep-
tion feature analysis for person re-identification. Pattern Recognition
Letters, 138, 617–623.
Zhu, K., Guo, H., Liu, Z., Tang, M., & Wang, J. (2020). Identity-guided
human semantic parsing for person re-identification.
In Computer
Vision–ECCV 2020: 16th European Conference, Glasgow, UK, August
23–28, 2020, Proceedings, Part III 16 (pp. 346–363).: Springer.
Zhu, X., Zheng, M., Chen, X., Zhang, X., Yuan, C., & Zhang, F. (2022).
Information disentanglement based cross-modal representation learning
for visible-infrared person re-identification.
Multimedia Tools and
Applications, (pp. 1–27).
Zhuo, J., Chen, Z., Lai, J., & Wang, G. (2018).
Occluded person re-
identification. In 2018 IEEE International Conference on Multimedia
and Expo (ICME) (pp. 1–6).: IEEE.
Zhuo, J., Lai, J., & Chen, P. (2019).
A novel teacher-student learn-
ing framework for occluded person re-identification.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:1907.03253.
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 17 of 17
