Modeling and Calibrating Visual Yield
Estimates in Vineyards
Stephen Nuske, Kamal Gupta, Srinivasa Narasimhan and Sanjiv Singh
Abstract Accurate yield estimates are of great value to vineyard growers to make
informed management decisions such as crop thinning, shoot thinning, irrigation
and nutrient delivery, preparing for harvest and planning for market. Current meth-
ods are labor intensive because they involve destructive hand sampling and are prac-
tically too sparse to capture spatial variability in large vineyard blocks. Here we re-
port on an approach to predict vineyard yield automatically and non-destructively
using images collected from vehicles driving along vineyard rows. Computer vision
algorithms are applied to detect grape berries in images that have been registered
together to generate high-resolution estimates. We propose an underlying model
relating image measurements to harvest yield and study practical approaches to cal-
ibrate the two. We report on results on datasets of several hundred vines collected
both early and in the middle of the growing season. We ﬁnd that it is possible to
estimate yield to within 4% using calibration data from prior harvest data and 3%
using calibration data from destructive hand samples at the time of imaging.
1 Introduction
Harvest yield prediction is critical to any vineyard grower for deciding when and
how to make adjustments to their vines to optimize growth, for preparing a grower
for the harvest operation, for shipping their crop, storing their crop and also sell-
ing their crop on the market. The typical process of estimating yield is for workers
to manually sample a small percentage of the vineyard and extrapolate these mea-
Stephen Nuske, Srinivasa Narasimhan and Sanjiv Singh
Robotics Institute, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA, U.S.A, 15213
Kamal Gupta
Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, India
Corresponding author: Stephen Nuske, e-mail: nuske@cmu.edu
1

2
Stephen Nuske, Kamal Gupta, Srinivasa Narasimhan and Sanjiv Singh
surements to the entire vineyard. The manual practice is labor intensive, expensive,
inaccurate, spatially sparse, destructive and riddled with subjective inputs.
(a) Chardonnay vineyard used in experiments
(b) Sensors used in experiments
(c) Raw images
(d) Detected berries
Fig. 1: Photos of the vineyards and equipment from our experiments. Equipment
mounted on an aluminum frame ﬁxed on the back tray of a Kawasaki Mule farm
utility vehicle. The sensing equipment used is a Nikon D300s color camera fac-
ing sideways from the vehicle detecting the fruit, an AlienBees ARB800 ring ﬂash
mounted around the lens of the color camera illuminating the scene, a PointGrey
BumbleBee2 stereo camera facing back down the row tracking the vehicle motion.
Images collected of the vines are processed to detect and measure the vine fruit.

Modeling and Calibrating Visual Yield Estimates in Vineyards
3
Vineyard managers currently do not have the information they require to make
informed decisions on their operations with accuracy and precision. We present
technology that can make dense predictions of harvest yield efﬁciently and auto-
matically using cameras. Here we report results of an approach to automatically
detect and count grapes to forecast yield with both precision and accuracy. The ap-
proach is to take conventional visible light cameras through a vineyard to image the
vines and detect the crop and predict yield, see Fig. 1b.
Visually detecting grape berries is difﬁcult because often there is a lack of color
contrast to the background, which is often similarly colored to the grapes, (Fig. 1a).
We speciﬁcally address the issues of lighting and lack of color contrast, by using
shape and texture cues for detection. Also not all berries are visible and therefore
the camera makes incomplete measurements that need to be calibrated.
Preliminary results of our approach were reported in Nuske et al. [9], where we
presented a method to detect berries and count berries to correlate against yield and
we extend our prior work in the following ways:
1. we study the underlying model relating the image measurements of the grape
berries to the harvest weight
2. we demonstrate two different approaches to calibrate our image berry measure-
ments to harvest yield
3. we present experimental results with image data collected at various stages dur-
ing the growing season and in both wine and table-grape vineyards
We deployed our method on three different vine varieties and conducted experi-
ments in which manual per-vine harvest weights were collected and used as ground
truth to evaluate our automated yield measurements. The size of the experiment in-
cludes 860 individual vines, of three different varieties and vineyards over a linear
distance of 2.5km. Our method predicts weight with approximately 4% error of the
overall actual harvest yield and approximately 8% error of the harvest weight for
individual vineyard rows.
2 Related Work
Current practices to forecast yield are inaccurate because of sampling approaches
that tend to adjust towards historical yields and include subjective inputs (Clingel-
effer et al. [2]). The calculation of ﬁnal cluster weight from weights at v´eraison
use ﬁxed multipliers from historic measurements, Wolpert and Vilas [12]. Unfor-
tunately, multipliers are biased towards healthier vines thus discriminating against
missing or weak vines and multipliers for cluster weights vary widely by vineyard,
season and variety.
Sensor-based yield estimation in vineyards has been attempted with trellis ten-
sion monitors, multispectral sensors, terahertz-wave imaging and visible-light im-
age processing. A dynamic yield estimation system based on trellis tension monitors
has been demonstrated (Blom and Tarara [1]) but it requires permanent infrastruc-

4
Stephen Nuske, Kamal Gupta, Srinivasa Narasimhan and Sanjiv Singh
ture to be installed. Information obtained from multispectral images has been used
to forecast yields with good results but is limited to vineyards with uniformity re-
quirements (Martinez-Casasnovas and Bordes [6]). A proof of concept study by
Federici et al. [5] has shown that terahertz imaging can detect the curved surfaces
of grapes and also has the potential to detect these through occluding thin canopy.
The challenge for this approach is to achieve fast scan rates to be able to deploy the
scanner on a mobile platform.
Small scale yield estimation based on simple image color discrimination has been
developed by Dunn and Martin [4]. This approach was attempted on Shiraz post-
v´eraison (i.e. after color development, very close to harvest) in short row segments.
The method would not be applicable for the majority of real world examples where
the fruit appears over a background of similarly-colored leaves, as is the case in
white grape varieties and in all varieties before v´eraison. Other recent small scale
experiments in vineyard work is Dey [3] present a method for classifying plant struc-
tures, such as the fruit, leaves, shoots based on 3D reconstructions generated from
image sequences which unlike our work is sensitive to slight wind whilst imaging.
Other crop detection based on computer vision methods using color pixel classiﬁca-
tion or shape analysis has been attempted on various fruit types – Jimenez et al. [7]
provides a summary of fruit detection work, Singh et al. [10] present a method for
detecting and classifying fruit in apple orchards and Swanson et al. [11] use the
shading on the curved surfaces of oranges as a cue for detection.
Our prior work, Nuske et al. [9], demonstrated how to detect berries similar in
color to the background of leaves using a combination of image processing tech-
niques including a radial symmetry transform and classiﬁcation of texture proper-
ties. In the previous section we list the extensions to our earlier work.
3 Modelling Harvest Yield with Image-based Measurements
Viticulturalists have long studied the process of predicting the size of the harvest
yield and have developed models of the various yield components (Clingeleffer et
al. [2]). In the most basic form, the weight of the harvest (Wh) can be expressed as a
product of the number of berries (Nb) and the mean weight of the berries (Wb).
Wh = NbWb
(1)
Once berry set has passed the number of berries can be considered constant
throughout the remainder of the season, whereas the mean berry weight will sub-
stantially increase in size. The standard practice for generating accurate yield pre-
dictions is to measure the number of berries early in the season and use historic
information of the mean berry weight to project to a harvest estimate. Using histori-
cal records of mean berry weight will introduce error into the projection as the mean
berry weight at harvest will vary from year to year. However the variation is berry
weight is small and is known only to account for 10% of the year-to-year variations

Modeling and Calibrating Visual Yield Estimates in Vineyards
5
in harvest yield. The berry count contributes to the remaining 90% (Clingeleffer et
al. [2]) of year-to-year yield variations.
Our approach to predict the yield at harvest time is also focussed on measuring
the number of berries and we do so using cameras mounted on vehicles driving
collecting images of the vines. From a single input image we use our visual berry
detection algorithm detailed in Nuske et al. [9] for calculation of the number of
berries. Often the canopy of the vines visually similar to the fruit. To detect the fruit
we ﬁnd possible berry locations based on their shape for robustness and classify
based on texture and color. The method is to look for radially symmetric points in
a ﬁxed, pre-decided radius range followed by color and texture based classiﬁcation.
Fig. 1d presents examples of the berries being detected by our algorithm.
The number of berries found by our visual berry detection algorithm (Nd
b ) is the
measurement that we pass to a yield forecasting function, f(·), which outputs an
estimate ( ˆNb) of the actual berry count:
ˆNb = f(Nd
b )
(2)
Multiplying our estimated berry count by the expected berry weight at harvest
(Wb) gives our yield prediction.
To generate accurate estimates, the function f must model several biases that are
inherent to the visual detection process. In Nuske et al. [9] we treated the biases
together as a single ﬁrst order linear factor (k):
ˆNb = f(Nd
b ) = 1
k Nd
b
(3)
Here in this work we study the individual causes of the bias in an attempt to
better understand the system as a whole. First, we introduce three different types
of occluders that cause many berries to not be visible to the camera and bias the
counts:
1. Self-occlusions (ks): Berries hidden behind berries within the same grape cluster
2. Cluster-occlusions (kc): Berries hidden behind other grape clusters
3. Vine-occlusions (kv): Berries hidden behind the leaves and shoots of the vine
All of these physical biases can be seen in Fig. 1. There are also biases in the
visual detection process. In Nuske et al. [9] the performance of the detection algo-
rithm was analyzed to ﬁnd that a fraction of the berries visible to the camera are
not detected by the algorithm and also small fraction of times the algorithm falsely
reports a berry where there was not, and these two factors combined introduces a
detection bias (kd). Further, when combining detections from several overlapping
images, the system is susceptible to errors where berries are either double-counted
or mistakenly not counted, introducing a mis-registration bias, kr.
The naive approach is to combine these bias terms as linear factors as follows:
f(Nd
b ) =
Nd
b
kskckvkdkr
(4)

6
Stephen Nuske, Kamal Gupta, Srinivasa Narasimhan and Sanjiv Singh
Later, in the results section, we attempt to isolate the ﬁve bias parameters aiming
to deepen our understanding of the origins of the error in our visual estimation
framework.
3.1 Estimating Self-occlusions
In our prior work (Nuske et. al [9]) we used the visible berry count as a prediction
of the cluster size, assuming the visible berry count is proportional to the total berry
count:
Nb ∝Nd
b
(5)
In the results section we study the visible berry count in controlled experiments
and also in an attempt to improve the measurement of the occluded berries in a
cluster, we propose two potential modiﬁcations.
The ﬁrst alternative measurement we propose is to take the convex hull formed
by all the berries in the cluster. Assuming the cluster has uniform density, k, and an
average thickness of the grape cluster to be d, we multiply the area A to this ﬁxed
cluster depth, and normalize with the average berry radius Rb.
Nb ∝d A
R2
b
(6)
The second alternative to measuring the size of a cluster is to extend the convex
hull model by predicting the berries occluded by the visible layer of berries using
an ellipsoid model. A grape cluster’s volume can be approximated with an ellipsoid
cutting off the image plane as an ellipse. We ﬁnd the best ﬁt ellipse for the berry
center locations with same normalized second central moments. Given the semi-
axes of the ellipse in pixels R1 and R2, with R1 ≥R2, volume of the corresponding
ellipsoid would be proportional to volume occupied by the berries (Bv) in the cluster.
Using the average berry radius (Rb) of the cluster, we can hence calculate the total
number of berries occupied by the cluster:
Vc ∝4
3πr1r22
Nb = Vc/(4
3πr3
b)
(7)
We study these three approaches to measuring grape cluster size in controlled
laboratory tests in the results section. In the vineyard experiments we focus just
on using the visible berry count will evaluate the alternatives in future vineyard
experiments once we have developed a method to accurately segment and separate
neighboring clusters.

Modeling and Calibrating Visual Yield Estimates in Vineyards
7
4 Calibrating Image Measurements to Harvest Yield
Here we take into consideration different procedures that are possible for calibrating
our image measurements. In our prior work (Nuske et al. [9]) we demonstrated that
computing a ratio between berries detected and the harvested fruit on one portion
of data is sufﬁcient for predicting yield on another portion of data by the applying
a linear ratio to the image measurement. In practice, knowing the mean occlusion
ratio of a given vineyard would be needed at the time of imaging, because it would
defeat the purpose of predicting yield if it were necessary to wait for the harvest data
before it were possible to measure the occlusion ratio. We propose two methods for
acquiring the calibration ratio at (or before) the time of imaging, well in advance of
harvest.
4.1 Calibration of occlusion ratio from destructive hand samples at
time of imaging
One approach takes a small number of destructive hand samples in the vineyard at
the time of imaging. The vines are imaged ﬁrst and then on a small sample of vines
the fruit is destructively removed and weighed. The hand fruit weight is projected
to harvest using the ratio between current berry weight and expected berry weight
at harvest. Taking the hand estimate against the image berry count for these speciﬁc
vines produces an occlusion ratio that can be estimated well in advance of harvest,
and applied to predict yield of the remaining vines that were not destructively sam-
pled.
Fig. 2a shows a satellite image of the Chardonnay vineyard, highlighted with red
to indicate the six vineyard rows that were imaged in our experiment. On bottom
row, purple marks indicate the 15 vines in which the hand samples used for cali-
bration. In Fig. 2b a graph shows the relationship between the hand fruit samples
collected the day after imaging and the image berry counts. We derive a calibration
function from this relationship and predict the crop weight based on the image berry
counts of the remaining vines that were not a part of the destructive hand sample.
4.2 Calibration of occlusion ratio from prior year harvest data
The second method we evaluate for calibrating the image measurements is to use
harvest data from prior growing seasons. We have analyzed harvest data from vines
trained and prepared in a similar manner from year to year and noticed consistencies.
The advantage of calibrating from a prior harvest season is that hand samples are
not necessary. The method simply takes a total measurement of the fruit harvested
and compared against the berry count detected in the imagery.

8
Stephen Nuske, Kamal Gupta, Srinivasa Narasimhan and Sanjiv Singh
(a) Satellite image of Chardonnay vineyard
(b) Calibrating with destructive hand
sample
Fig. 2: Satellite image of the Chardonnay vineyard. Highlighted with red to indi-
cate rows that were imaged by our setup and marked with purple on the bottom
row to indicate where destructive hand samples were measured the day after imag-
ing. Overall six rows were imaged totaling 665 vines, and 15 vines on the bottom
row were destructively hand sampled. Graph showing calibration between the hand
sample and the corresponding image berry counts.
We compute calibration functions from datasets collected in 2010 and normalize
the calibration based on the mean berry weight at harvest. We then apply the cali-
bration to the image berry counts we collected a year later in 2011 in a vineyard of
a different varietal. In the following results section we compare the accuracy of the
various approaches to predict harvest yield.
5 Results
5.1 Vineyard Datasets
We deployed our method on three different vine varieties and conducted experi-
ments in which manual per-vine harvest weights were collected and used as ground
truth to evaluate our automated yield measurements. The size of the experiment is
signiﬁcant, including 860 individual vines, totaling 2.5km vines, including follow-
ing varieties: Traminette, Riesling and Chardonnay. See Table 1 for details of the
different datasets, and see Fig. 1b for an example of the equipment we use to im-
age the vines. Equipment mounted on an aluminum frame ﬁxed on the back tray
of a Kawasaki Mule farm utility vehicle. The sensing equipment used is a Nikon
D300s color camera facing sideways from the vehicle detecting the fruit, an Alien-
Bees ARB800 ring ﬂash mounted around the lens of the color camera illuminating
the scene, a PointGrey BumbleBee2 stereo camera facing back down the row track-
ing the vehicle motion and a synchronization box generating pulses to keep the two

Modeling and Calibrating Visual Yield Estimates in Vineyards
9
cameras synchronized. We also collected a small dataset in controlled laboratory for
studying self-occlusions, as described in the following section.
To generate a measure for each vine we use the stereo camera using a visual
odometry algorithm (Kitt et al. [8]) to track position along the row. We reduce drift
in the odometry by detecting the stakes supporting the trellis infrastructure which
are ﬁxed at known spacings and provide an extra source of positioning. We detect
the stakes by simple image processing searching for near verticle lines in the images.
Finding the stakes in neighboring frames enable us to triangulate the stakes location
and depth from the camera. We assume the fruiting zone lies in a single plane at the
depth of the stakes. Using this assumption we can compute the overlapping content
of the images and crop images to avoid double counting the fruit.
Table 1: Vineyard Dataset Description
Variety
Location
Date
Trellis
Time before Mean berry Num.
harvest at
weight at
vines
imaging
imaging
Traminette
Fredonia, NY Sep. 2010 VSP
10 days
1.6g
88
Riesling
Fredonia, NY Sep. 2010 VSP
10 days
1.5g
124
Chardonnay Modesto, CA June 2011 Semi-VSP
90 days
0.15g
648
5.2 Evaluating Berry Self-occlusion
First, we evaluate the occlusion of berries within a cluster by the outer layer of
clusters (kb) and study some approaches to potentially improve the estimate of the
number of hidden berries. For this speciﬁc study, we use a controlled laboratory
environment where we collected images individually of 56 grape clusters. We use
ripe clusters of the Thompson Seedless variety. For each cluster we collected sev-
eral images from different orientations, at a ﬁxed distance, and collected a weight
and a count of the number of berries. In the laboratory dataset we do not use our
automatic detection algorithm and instead hand mark all berries visible within the
images to replicate a perfect detection algorithm and remove any bias from errors
in the detection algorithm (kd and kr). Also, in the laboratory dataset there are no
biases from the vine (kv) or from other clusters (kc) and hence we can isolate and
study the bias from self-occlusions (kb).
Initially we compare the total berry count (gathered manually) of each cluster
against its weight, Table 2. The correlation score for total berry count to weight is
r2 = 0.95 and mean squared error from least squares ﬁt of 9.3%. We consider this an
upper bound for the yield predictions as the best yield prediction we could achieve
is accurately knowing the berry count.

10
Stephen Nuske, Kamal Gupta, Srinivasa Narasimhan and Sanjiv Singh
Table 2: Measurement Correlation to Fruit Weight
Measure-type
r2 correlation Mean squared error
Total berry count
0.95
9.3%
Visible berry count (Eq. 5)
0.88
15.4%
Ellipsoid model (Eq. 7)
0.85
17%
Convex hull model (Eq. 6)
0.92
13.7%
Next we study different image measurements starting with the visible berry count
and present the results in Table 2. The visible berry count correlates with r2 = 0.88
which provides a mean squared error of 15.4%. The error is just 6% greater than
the total berry count and indicates a similar fraction of visible berries is present
for small clusters as with large. The ellipsoidal model has a correlation score of
r2 = 0.88 and the lowest mean squared error of 17%. Even though the ellipsoidal
model attempts to predict the occluded berries behind the visible layer of berries, it
correlates with a lower score than the visible berry measure. The ellipsoidal model
could be less accurate because it violates one of our assumptions; the clusters do not
have uniform density or the clusters are not ellipsoidal, or the model could suffer
from errors in the designation of the cluster contour.
The ﬁnal image measurement model we evaluate is the convex hull in Tab. 2. The
correlation measures at r2 = 0.92 which is the best of the three image measurements
we study. One possible reason for the high correlation is because it encompasses the
entire cluster contour, therefore it includes a measure of the partially visible berries
as well as the completely visible berries, thus being more accurate than visible berry
count alone. Despite ﬁnding that the contour area in the image is more accurate mea-
sure other than visible berry count, we do not yet deploy this measure outside the
laboratory environment. In the datasets collected in the vineyards, several clusters
are visible in each image and we have yet to develop a technique for successful seg-
menting one cluster from another – a requirement of the ellipsoid and convex hull
models. Hence, at present we have only been able to demonstrate precise detection
of individual berries, regardless of which cluster they belong, and therefore in the
following vineyard results we consider just the visible berry count that our algo-
rithm provides. However, we have indicated with these laboratory tests an avenue
for future improvement of our ﬁelded system.
5.3 Biases in Visual Measurement
Here we take data both collected in the vineyard and laboratory we attempt to seg-
regate the biases involved in the visual detection process. Table 3 presents a study
of the different visual estimation biases measured in the various datasets. The lab-
oratory dataset was used to estimate the self-occlusion parameter ks by manually
counting visible berries in the images and hand counting the total number of berries

Modeling and Calibrating Visual Yield Estimates in Vineyards
11
physically pulling apart the clusters. The dataset showed that 46% of the berries are
visible to the camera.
Table 3: Biases in Visual Yield Estimation (Sec. 3). Bias parameters are unit-less
and standard deviations where applicable are presented as percentages in brackets.
Missing entries for the self-occlusion parameter (ks) are due to data not collected in
a controlled environment in the vineyard datasets, the other missing entries are for
the biases not applicable to the laboratory dataset.
Dataset
Mean berry
ks
kd
kr
kv ∗kc
name
weight at harvest
Riesling
1.5g
-
0.74 (13.4%)
1.0
0.29
Traminette
1.6g
-
0.75 (10.7%)
1.0
0.24
Chardonnay
0.9g
-
0.65 (12.3%) 1.03 (8.7%) 0.31
Laboratory
-
0.46 (22%)
-
-
-
The visual detection bias kd was estimated by manually assessing false positive
and false negative detections of berries in images with the marked output of the
detection algorithm. The false positive and false negatives combined with the true
berry detections gave us the parameter kd. The detection algorithm is biased towards
under-counting the berries which was discovered in our prior work Nuske et. al [9]
and here we see between 25% and 35% fewer berries than are visible are reported
by the algorithm. The algorithm detected about 10% fewer of the visible berries in
the Chardonnay 2011 dataset which captured around 90 days from harvest when the
berries were much smaller. Similarly we take images marked by the detection and
image alignment algorithm and manually assess double-counting and mis-counting
berries between overlapping images. In the 2011 Chardonnay dataset the automatic
aligning algorithm was biased to slightly over-count berries by 3%. In the 2010
datasets (Riesling and Traminette) we did not deploy our automatic alignment algo-
rithm, and instead manually cropped images to have zero overlap and hence we list
a bias of 1.0 here.
Finally, the bias from vine and cluster occlusions we have not experimentally
determined, but we combine the other bias factors, assume a similar self-occlusion
rate to the laboratory, use the mean berry weight at harvest and deduce the combined
effect of the terms kv and kc indirectly. We see here that there are signiﬁcant occlu-
sions from the vine leaves, shoots and clusters occluding clusters with between two
thirds and three quarters of the fruit being occluded by these factors.
5.4 Yield Prediction Results
Now we present yield prediction results by applying our calibration approaches de-
scribed in Section 4, including calibration from destructive hand samples at the time

12
Stephen Nuske, Kamal Gupta, Srinivasa Narasimhan and Sanjiv Singh
of imaging and also calibration from prior harvest data and compare average error
for the prediction of the individual vine weights of the Chardonnay dataset. After
discovering in the previous section that the visible berry count has the most accurate
correlation to yield in the vineyard datasets we use this as our image measure for the
following results. We take the Traminette and Riesling datasets, collected in 2010,
(a) Comparison of Traminette and Chardon-
nay datasets – normalized for berry weight
(b) Predicting Chardonnay 2011 yield from
2010 calibration (lbs)
Fig. 3: Graphs demonstrating calibration from prior harvest data. After normalizing
for berry weight there is a trend between the 2010 and 2011 datasets. The calibration
functions computed from the 2010 datasets applied to the Chardonnay image berry
counts produces harvest predictions 12 weeks prior to harvest.
compute a calibration between image measure and yield, and apply to the Chardon-
nay dataset from 2011. Fig. 3a shows a comparison between the data collected in the
two vineyards after normalizing for respective berry weights. The graph shows that
the Traminette and Riesling vines despite holding much less fruit, do have a trend
between the image berry counts in the Chardonnay data. We apply the Traminette
and Riesling calibration to the Chardonnay data and show the predicted weight in
Fig. 3b. This result demonstrates the prediction of harvest yield 12 weeks out from
harvest. We also evaluate calibrating using hand samples collected in the vineyard
at the time of imaging, see Fig. 2b.
The results of the calibration on the Chardonnay dataset are presented in Fig. 4a.
The errors are between 17 and 19% for the different calibration approaches, with
the calibration from destructive hand samples slightly more accurate. We see that
some of the error averages out when comparing yield of entire rows, where the error
is now between 7% and 8%. In Fig. 4b we present the error for prediction of the
entire yield of the vines in the dataset. The hand calibration was most accurate at
3% error and using calibration from the 2010 Traminette dataset had 4% error. We
see an under-prediction of overall weight by 4.5% using the 2010 Riesling dataset

Modeling and Calibrating Visual Yield Estimates in Vineyards
13
(a) Vine and Row Mean Error
(b) Overall Prediction Error
Fig. 4: Results on the prediction of harvest yield in the Chardonnay dataset. We
evaluate the prediction accuracy when calibrating using a destructive hand sample
at the time of imaging compared to calibrating using prior harvest data. We present
two statistics in (a); the average absolute error computed for individual vine pre-
dictions and the average absolute error for the estimate of row weights. In (b) we
present the error for prediction of the entire yield of the vines in the dataset. The
calibration from hand samples is slightly more accurate than the calibration from
prior harvest data. For comparison we present the estimate taken by extrapolating
the hand samples alone, with is the least accurate estimate with 13% error.
calibration. It is apparent that despite average absolute per-vine errors of around
18% for all approaches, the overall error is below 5% indicating the individual vine
errors are well distributed and average out. For comparison in Fig. 4b we present
the estimate taken by extrapolating the hand samples alone, which is the traditional
industry practice, and was found to be the least accurate estimate with -13% error.
6 Conclusion and Future Work
We have demonstrated a method to automatically generate non-destructive, high-
resolution, yield predictions vineyards and shown practical approaches to calibrate
the measurements. We evaluate the system at both 10 days from harvest and 90 days,
ﬁnding similar results, with the algorithm detecting only slightly less of the visible
berries earlier in the season. Of the two methods of calibrating image measurements
– using destructive hand samples at the time of imaging was slightly more accu-
rate at giving predictions within 3% of harvest yield. Nevertheless calibration from
prior harvest data from a different varietal, albeit grown in a similar vine trellis and
training structure, gave only 4% error.
In future work we will look to develop an approach to count grape clusters early
in the season, even before berries have formed, to give vineyard managers informa-
tion with maximum time before harvest to make the necessary adjustments to their

14
Stephen Nuske, Kamal Gupta, Srinivasa Narasimhan and Sanjiv Singh
vines. We also look at extending the experimentation to more varietals and trellis
structures.
7 Acknowledgements
Work funded by the National Grape and Wine Initiative, (info@NGWI.org). Narasimhan
was supported partially by NSF awards IIS-0964562 and CAREER IIS-0643628
and an ONR grant N00014-11-1-0295.
References
1. Blom, P., Tarara, J.: Trellis tension monitoring improves yield estimation in vineyards.
HortScience 44, 678–685 (2009)
2. Clingeleffer, P., Dunn, G., Krstic, M., Martin, S.: Crop development, crop estimation and crop
control to secure quality and production of major wine grape varieties: A national approach.
Tech. rep., Grape and Wine Research and Development Corporation, Australia (2001)
3. Dey, D., Mummert, L., Sukthankar, R.: Classication of plant structures from uncalibrated im-
age sequences. In: IEEE Workshop on the Applications of Computer Vision (WACV) (2012)
4. Dunn, G., Martin, S.: Yield prediction from digital image analysis: A technique with potential
for vineyard assessments prior to harvest. Australian Journal of Grape and Wine Research 10,
196–198 (2004)
5. Federici, J., Wample, R., Rodriguez, D., Mukherjee, S.: Application of terahertz gouy phase
shift from curved surfaces for estimation of crop yield. In Applied Optics 48, 1382–1388
(2009)
6. J.A., M.C., X., B.: Viticultura de precisi´on: Predicci´on de cosecha a partir de variables del
cultivo e ´ındices de vegetaci´on. Revista de Teledetecci´on 24, 67–71 (2005)
7. Jimenez, A., Ceres, R., Pons, J.: A survey of computer vision methods for locating fruit on
trees. In: Transaction of the ASAE, vol. 43, pp. 1911–1920 (2000)
8. Kitt, B., Geiger, A., Lategahn, H.: Visual odometry based on stereo image sequences with
ransac-based outlier rejection scheme. In: IEEE Intelligent Vehicles Symposium (2010)
9. Nuske, S., Achar, S., Bates, T., Narasimhan, S., Singh, S.: Yield estimation in vineyards by
visual grape detection. In: Proceedings of the 2011 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on
Intelligent Robots and Systems (2011)
10. Singh, S., Bergerman, M., Cannons, J., Grocholsky, B., Hamner, B., Holguin, G., Hull, L.,
Jones, V., Kantor, G., Koselka, H., Li, G., Owen, J., Park, J., Shi, W., Teza, J.: Comprehen-
sive automation for specialty crops: Year 1 results and lessons learned. Journal of Intelligent
Service Robotics, Special Issue on Agricultural Robotics 3(4), 245–262 (2010)
11. Swanson, M., Dima, C., Stentz, A.: A multi-modal system for yield prediction in citrus trees.
In: ASABE Annual International Meeting, Pittsburgh, PA (2010)
12. Wolpert, J.A., Vilas, E.P.: Estimating vineyard yields: Introduction to a simple, two-step
method. American Journal of Enology and Viticulture 43, 384–388 (1992)
