Data in Brief 55 (2024) 110667 
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect 
Data in Brief 
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/dib 
Data Article 
Outdoor oil palm fruit ripeness dataset 
Zaid Omar a , ∗, Anwar P.P. Abdul Majeed b , ∗, Munirah Rosbi a , 
Shuwaibatul Aslamiah Ghazalli a , Hazlina Selamat a 
a Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Universiti Teknologi Malaysia, 81310 UTM Johor Bahru, Malaysia 
b School of Engineering and Technology, Sunway University, 47500 Selangor, Malaysia 
a r t i c l e 
i n f o 
Article history: 
Received 8 May 2024 
Revised 12 June 2024 
Accepted 17 June 2024 
Available online 26 June 2024 
Dataset link: Outdoor Tenera Oil Palm Fruit 
Image: FFB Dataset (Original data) 
Keywords: 
Fresh fruit bunchp 
Image-based classiﬁcation 
Fruit maturity 
Natural environment 
a b s t r a c t 
This dataset comprises oil palm fresh fruit bunch (FFB) im- 
ages that may potentially be used in the study related to fruit 
ripeness detection via image processing. The FFB dataset was 
collected from palm oil plantations in Johor, Negeri Sembi- 
lan, and Perak, Malaysia. The data collection involved acquir- 
ing pictures of FFB from various angles and classifying them 
based on their ripeness level, categorised into ﬁve classes: 
damaged bunch, empty bunch, unripe, ripe, and overripe. An 
experienced grader carefully labelled each FFB image with 
the corresponding ground truth information. The dataset pro- 
vides valuable insights into the colour variations of FFBs 
throughout their ripening process, which is essential for as- 
sessing oil quality. It includes observations on the external 
fruit colours as well as characteristics related to the presence 
of empty sockets in the FFB as a key indicator of ripeness. 
The reusability potential of this dataset is signiﬁcant for re- 
searchers in the ﬁeld of oil palm fruit classiﬁcation and grad- 
ing, which requires an extensive outdoor dataset that com- 
prise FFB’s both on the tree and on the ground. Our work 
enables the development and validation of machine learning 
pipelines for outdoor automated FFB grading. Furthermore, 
the dataset may also support studies to improve oil palm cul- 
tivation practices, enhance yield, and optimise oil quality. 
∗Corresponding authors. 
E-mail addresses: zaidomar@utm.my (Z. Omar), anwarm@sunway.edu.my (A. P.P. Abdul Majeed) . 
Social media:
@zaidomar18 (Z. Omar),
@AnwarPPAbdulMa1 (A. P.P. Abdul Majeed) 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dib.2024.110667 
2352-3409/© 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. This is an open access article under the CC BY license 
( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ ) 

2 
Z. Omar, A. P.P. Abdul Majeed and M. Rosbi et al. / Data in Brief 55 (2024) 110667 
© 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. 
This is an open access article under the CC BY license 
( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ ) 
Speciﬁcations Table 
Subject 
Computer vision and pattern recognition 
Speciﬁc subject area 
Computer vision and pattern recognition, artiﬁcial intelligence, computer science 
applications, deep learning, fruit ripeness recognition. 
Data format 
Labelled raw image data in .jpg 
Type of data 
Raw ﬁgures 
Data collection 
FFB images were collected using a smartphone under natural lighting from various 
angles in a palm oil plantation. Each image was labelled based on ﬁve ripeness levels. 
Data source location 
All of the images were obtained from palm oil plantations in Malaysia. Some were 
collected from a plantation in Perak, and others were from Batu Pahat, Johor. 
Data accessibility 
Repository name: Zenodo [ 1 ] 
Direct URL to data: https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.11114885 
1. Value of the Data 
• These data are valuable because they present the real-world scenario of FFBs in outdoor con- 
ditions. The data show various FFBs still attached to the tree (pre-harvesting) as well as on 
the ground (post-harvesting). 
• These data can be used to classify oil palm FFB ripeness. 
• The dataset is also invaluable for testing color correction algorithms to standardise colour 
perception, addressing image variance due to diverse natural lighting conditions outdoors. 
For instance, outdoor images often have a warm temperature, making unripe bunches appear 
ripe. Colour correction could effectively adjust color perception, improving the accuracy of 
the classiﬁcation system. 
2. Background 
The oil palm fruit, scientiﬁcally termed Elaeis guineensis, originated in West Africa and 
spread to Southeast Asian countries like Malaysia, Indonesia, and Thailand [ 2 ]. A Tenera species 
fruit typically ripens in 20 to 22 weeks, exhibiting colour changes from black to reddish, then 
to orange [ 3 ]. Ripeness, crucial for oil quality, is determined by observing skin colour [ 4 ]. The 
Malaysian Palm Oil Board (MPOB) guidelines classify FFB ripeness into four categories: un- 
ripe, underripe, ripe, and overripe. Purplish-black indicates unripe-ness, darkish-red signiﬁes 
overripe-ness, while reddish-orange and reddish-purple denote ripe and underripe, respectively 
[ 5 ]. Additionally, MPOB considers FFBs with 1% to 9% empty sockets due to loose fruits as un- 
derripe, while ripe FFBs have 10% to 50% empty sockets [ 6 ]. 
3. Data Description 
The acquired outdoor FFB dataset comprises 466 FFB images with ﬁve classes (damaged, 
empty, overripe, ripe and unripe). According to the MPOB [ 7 ], there are 14 classes of FFB 
bunches, including four ripeness categories and several quality indicators. In this particular data 
collection, three classes of fruit ripeness and two classes of fruit quality were identiﬁed, resulting 
in ﬁve classes of FFB included in the dataset. While some studies identify four ripeness classes 
for FFB classiﬁcation [ 8 ], there is often overlap between the unripe and underripe categories. 

Z. Omar, A. P.P. Abdul Majeed and M. Rosbi et al. / Data in Brief 55 (2024) 110667
3 
Table 1 
Name format of the image ﬁles. 
FFB Classes 
Example of ﬁle’s name 
Training image 
Test image 
Damaged bunch 
‘TrainDamaged(1).jpg’ 
‘TestDamaged(1). jpg’ 
Empty bunch 
‘TrainEmpty(1). jpg’ 
‘TestEmpty(1). jpg’ 
Overripe 
‘TrainOverripe(1). jpg’ 
‘TestOverripe(1). jpg’ 
Ripe 
‘TrainRipe(1). jpg’ 
‘TestRipe(1). jpg’ 
Unripe 
‘TrainUnripe(1). jpg’ 
‘TestUnripe(1). jpg’ 
Table 2 
Dataset distribution. 
FFB Classes 
Train 
Test 
Total for each class 
Percentage of test data 
Damaged bunch 
12 
3 
15 
20.0% 
Empty bunch 
9 
3 
12 
25.0% 
Overripe 
60 
14 
74 
18.9% 
Ripe 
160 
41 
201 
20.4% 
Unripe 
130 
34 
164 
20.7% 
Total data 
371 
95 
466 
20.3% 
Table 3 
Number of FFB samples for each class. 
Classes 
Number of fruit samples 
(training image) 
Number of fruit samples 
(test image) 
Damaged 
5 
3 
Empty 
6 
2 
Ripe 
68 
10 
Unripe 
48 
7 
Overripe 
24 
3 
This overlap does not signiﬁcantly affect FFB classiﬁcation, as the primary goal is to identify and 
harvest ripe bunches while leaving unripe or underripe bunches on the tree. 
Both on-tree and on-the-ground images were included in the dataset. The image size varies, 
ranging from 757 ×568 pixels to 3024 ×4032 pixels. The images were separated into 371 training 
images in a ﬁle named FFBtrain and 95 test images in FFBtest . The image labelling follows the 
format of the ﬁle’s name as described in Table 1 . Table 2 illustrates the allocation of images 
across different FFB classes, along with the corresponding percentages of test data for each class. 
Fig. 1 shows example images of the dataset. 
4. Experimental Design, Materials and Methods 
Data acquisition was aimed at capturing a diverse array of FFB images under natural light- 
ing conditions. The goal was to develop an algorithm that would demonstrate robustness and 
accuracy across various weather conditions and lighting scenarios. A portion of the images was 
sourced from the Malaysian Palm Oil Board (MPOB) in Negeri Sembilan, some were obtained 
from a palm oil plantation situated in Johor, and others were from Perak, Malaysia. Capturing 
FFB images involved aﬃxing a smartphone to a monopod, ensuring images were captured from 
various angles (refer to Fig. 2 ). Both the iPhone 11 and Xiaomi 12 Lite were used for image col- 
lection. Automatic camera settings were applied to capture random RGB images, ensuring vari- 
ability for effective image classiﬁcation. A total of 176 fruit samples were used, with an average 
of three to four images captured from different angles for each bunch. The distribution of the 
FFB samples is detailed in Table 3 . 

4 
Z. Omar, A. P.P. Abdul Majeed and M. Rosbi et al. / Data in Brief 55 (2024) 110667 
Fig. 1. Examples of the FFB image dataset (a) Damaged, (b) Empty bunch, (c) Overripe, (d) Ripe, (e) Unripe [ 1 ]. 
Prior to image acquisition, an experienced grader has been assigned to classify the FFBs ac- 
cording to their ripeness levels. Subsequently, each image underwent a labelling process, denot- 
ing it with the relevant ground truth information to specify whether the fruit was damaged, 
empty, unripe, ripe, or overripe. Analysis of this dataset aims to uncover the variations inherent 
in outdoor FFB images, thereby assisting in deﬁning the research problem. 
The dataset underwent testing on the YOLOv4-Tiny deep neural network platform, with a 
custom data augmentation technique employed to enhance dataset diversity. Five distinct data 
augmentation methods (refer to Table 4 ) were utilised, leading to a six-fold increase in the 
dataset size. The initial set of 371 training images was utilised to train the YOLOv4-Tiny for 
direct deep learning classiﬁcation, resulting in a test accuracy of 82.11%. Furthermore, the sys- 
tem was compared with CNN-based deep learning, with the speciﬁc detailsprovided in Table 5 , 
yielding an accuracy of 55.79%. 

Z. Omar, A. P.P. Abdul Majeed and M. Rosbi et al. / Data in Brief 55 (2024) 110667
5 
Table 4 
Data augmentation techniques applied to the dataset [ 9 ]. 
Image augmentation method 
Augmented image example 
Altering colour in HSV colour space 
Image translation at the x-axis 
Random contrast adjustment 
Overlay rain mask 
( continued on next page ) 

6 
Z. Omar, A. P.P. Abdul Majeed and M. Rosbi et al. / Data in Brief 55 (2024) 110667 
Table 4 ( continued ) 
Image augmentation method 
Augmented image example 
Overlay shadow mask 
Fig. 2. (a) Smartphone and monopod used in data acquisition, (b) Images taken from different angles [ 9 ]. 
Table 5 
Hyperparameter for CNN classiﬁer. 
Training images 
371 
Hardware resource 
Single CPU 
Epoch 
100 
Learning rate 
0.01 
Validation frequency 
30 iterations 
Limitations 
The dataset is biased due to its limited representation of on-tree data, particularly regard- 
ing damaged, empty, and overripe bunches resulting from detachment by harvesters or falling 
from the tree. This imbalance in observation leads to a disproportionate number of ripe and 
unripe fruits on the tree within the dataset. Additionally, the dataset exhibits non-standardised 
class distributions, with signiﬁcant variations, especially in the number of empty and damaged 
bunches. This disparity arises from the signiﬁcantly lower total population of empty and dam- 
aged bunches compared to other classes in a maintained oil palm plantation. 
Furthermore, the data collection procedure using a monopod could not reach oil palm trees 
taller than 3 metres. Therefore, future upgrades involving drones or other mechanisms for cap- 
turing images are necessary. This data collection utilised only two types of smartphones, the 

Z. Omar, A. P.P. Abdul Majeed and M. Rosbi et al. / Data in Brief 55 (2024) 110667
7 
Xiaomi 12 Lite and iPhone 11, resulting in a limited diversity of datasets across devices. There- 
fore, it would be beneﬁcial to use a wider range of smartphone models to enhance the diversity 
of images captured. 
Ethics Statement 
Our study does not involve experiments with animals or humans. Therefore, we conﬁrm that 
our research strictly adheres to the guidelines for authors provided by Data in Brief regarding 
ethical considerations. 
Declaration of Competing Interest 
The authors declare that they have no known competing ﬁnancial interests or personal rela- 
tionships that could have appeared to inﬂuence the work reported in this paper. 
Data Availability 
Outdoor Tenera Oil Palm Fruit Image: FFB Dataset (Original data) (Zenodo) 
CRediT Author Statement 
Zaid Omar: Conceptualization, Supervision, Project administration, Writing – review & edit- 
ing; Anwar P.P. Abdul Majeed: Visualization, Writing – review & editing; Munirah Rosbi: 
Methodology, Formal analysis, Investigation, Writing – review & editing; Shuwaibatul Aslamiah 
Ghazalli: Formal analysis, Investigation; Hazlina Selamat: Conceptualization. 
Acknowledgements 
The authors wish to acknowledge The Ministry of Higher Education Malaysia and Universiti 
Teknologi Malaysia for funding this work through the Fundamental Grant Research Scheme (vote 
number FRGS/1/2021/TK0/UTM/02/37 ). 
References 
[1] M. Rosbi, Outdoor Tenera Oil Palm Fruit Image , Available from: https://github.com/MunirahRosbi/Outdoor-Tenera-Oil- 
Palm- Fruit- Image . 
[2] B.P. Forster, et al.H. Campos, P.D.S. Caligari (Eds.), Oil Palm (Elaeis guineensis), Genetic Improvement of Tropical Crops 
(2017) 241–290 . 
[3] W.I.W. Ishak, R.M. Hudzari, Image based modeling for oil palm fruit maturity prediction, J. Food Agric. Environ. 8 
(2010) 469–476 . 
[4] N. Misron, et al., Relative estimation of water content for ﬂat-type inductive-based oil palm fruit maturity sensor, 
Sensors 17 (1) (2017) 52 . 
[5] M. Makky, P. Soni, Development of an automatic grading machine for oil palm fresh fruits bunches (FFBs) based on 
machine vision, Comput. Electron. Agric. 93 (2013) 129–139 . 
[6] M.K. Shabdin, et al., A study on the oil palm fresh fruit bunch (FFB) ripeness detection by using Hue, Saturation and 
Intensity (HSI) approach, IOP Conf. Ser. 37 (2016) 012039 . 
[7] MPOBOil Palm Fruit Grading Manual, Malaysian Palm Oil Board, 2003 . 
[8] G.N.Elwirehardja Suharjito, J.S. Prayoga, Oil palm fresh fruit bunch ripeness classiﬁcation on mobile devices using 
deep learning approaches, Comput. Electron. Agric. (2021) 188 . 
[9] M. Rosbi, Outdoor Oil Palm Fruit Classiﬁcation Using Clustering-Based Segmentation and Colour-Texture Features [Unpub- 
lished Master’s Thesis]. Universiti Teknologi Malaysia. 
