Yield Estimation using Deep Learning for Precision
Agriculture
Youssef Osman∗, Reed Dennis∗, Khalid Elgazzar
Ontario Tech University
{youssef.osman, reed.dennis, khaled.elgazzar}@ontariotechu.ca
Abstract—We perform fruit counting on video footage by
following a two-stage pipeline that consists of detecting the fruits,
then tracking them frame-by-frame. Detection is done through
the use of You Only Look Once model (YOLO). Bounding
boxes are extracted from detection and Non Max Suppression
(NMS) is performed to get ﬁnal detections. The boxes are
then input into the tracking pipeline. For tracking, we apply
a custom-developed DeepSORT algorithm to work with fruits.
Using the box coordinates, every detected object is cropped
out of the original image, and a separate feature extraction
using a convolutional neural network (CNN) called ResNet is
performed on that image crop to get the feature map. New
detections are associated with old detections by comparing their
features as a distance metric, where two objects with minimal
distance are associated together. Input objects with no association
are treated as new objects to be tracked. By keeping track of
the fruits throughout the video frames, we ensure that we’re
counting them appropriately when they are ﬁrst detected. We
demonstrate the approach on videos from an apple orchard to
test the performance of the proposed pipeline in natural light.
Experimental results show high accuracy of fruit counting on
real-time video feeds. The new approach can be efﬁciently applied
on any type of fruit and vegetables with no changes in the
algorithms.
I. INTRODUCTION
Precision agriculture, where robotics and AI technolo-
gies are used in various aspects of crop ﬁeld management,
is an ever-growing domain. Technologies such as Global-
Positioning-System (GPS), wireless sensing, image processing
and AI can be used for surveying and analysis of various crop
ﬁelds. For example, Corwin [1] uses soil sensors to measure
the electrical conductivity of the soil, and explains that this
property highly inﬂuences crop productivity. Tian [2] presents
a sensor capable of identifying weed zones. Obtaining crop
information and automating processes such as fertilizing and
treatment dispensing is proven to have positive impacts in
improving a farmer’s efﬁciency and proﬁts [3]. For example,
if farmers know information such as where certain areas
are affected by weeds and diseases, they can quickly isolate
the areas before hurting the rest of the crops, and prepare
for treatment. Another example, if farmers know their yield
when the crop is still maturing, they can accurately calculate
their harvest and production costs, and their proﬁts, and set
up their equipment in advance. All this information directly
beneﬁts a framer’s proﬁtability and efﬁciency. In this paper,
we speciﬁcally target yield estimation, and the use of AI and
deep learning to perform fruit counting.
Fruit counting, which can also be referred to as crop yield
estimation, is the process of producing an estimated count
of crops. Knowing the yield helps farmers make informed
choices in terms of how to allocate resources for harvesting,
preparing storage according to crop sizes, and better plan for
harvest routes and packaging. Given the tedious nature of
having people go out into the ﬁeld and count, and a desire for
fast and accurate estimations, automating this process would
be greatly beneﬁcial. In many works, computer vision can be
used to provide counts of crops from image data. In the era
of advanced robotics a device such as an unmanned aerial
vehicle (UAV) can be used to a great extent in acquiring
footage or images of the crops [4], given that they’re normally
equipped with RGB cameras, and can navigate between plants
and trees while recording. On the footage, a computer vision
technique that detects the crops based on features such as
texture or colours is utilized [5]. However, there are a number
of limitations with such techniques. Notably, they’re very fruit-
speciﬁc, as in what works for one fruit may not work for
another. They also struggle with natural feature changes, like
illumination or occlusion. Overlapping fruits being miscounted
or ignored also pose a challenge.
In order to address such issues, deep learning is used for
image analysis. Not only are deep learning models quite
accurate, but they’re also highly versatile [6]. The same deep
learning technique can classify different types of fruit using
the same model, given the appropriate dataset is used for
training. The dataset can also include the fruits in different
lighting conditions or partially occluded, such features can
be learned and detected using the model as we will show
in our work. Deep learning has already been successfully
used for fruit detection and counting [7] [8] [9], however,
the function was performed on still images. Footage of fruit
taken in video frames is substantially more practical, as it’s
easier to set up a robot or vehicles traversing through the
ﬁelds to capture recordings. The videos also provide multiple
angles of the fruit, allowing occluded or shadowed fruits in
one frame to be clear in other frames. Performing counting
on videos is not possible using just detection, as there is no
way of telling whether an apple detected in the ﬁrst frame
is the same apple detected in the following frame. Thus, if
we perform counting using detection alone, we’d be counting
the same apples multiple times. To address this challenge, we
design a pipeline where we insert our detection into a tracking
978-1-6654-4431-6/21/$31.00 ©2021 IEEE
542
2021 IEEE 7th World Forum on Internet of Things (WF-IoT) | 978-1-6654-4431-6/21/$31.00 ©2021 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/WF-IoT51360.2021.9595143
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:47:24 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

mechanism, and perform counting on the tracked fruits. By
using tracking, we associate between detections in different
frames. This allows us to identify individual apples, keep track
of them across the video frames, and count every tracked apple
only once. In this paper, we leverage deep learning by using a
robust detection model, and develop a lightweight correction
mechanism to handle incorrect apple detections in trees from
behind rows. We then integrate our detections with an object
tracking pipeline that we adapt to work with fruits so that the
counting task can be done on video footage. We successfully
run our pipeline on footage of a row of apple trees taken from
an apple orchard.
The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. Section
2 discusses related works in fruit detection and counting.
Section 3 describes our two-stage pipeline. We explain how
we prepare our dataset and present our results in Section 4.
Lastly, Section 5 provides concluding remarks and outlines
future work.
II. RELATED WORKS
Crop yield estimation relies on using image processing
algorithms detect the crop from imagery and count the number
of detections to give the estimate. In earlier works, detections
are made by distinguishing between the crop’s textures and
background textures. Wang [10] uses visual cues to segment
apples from images, speciﬁcally the hue, saturation and in-
tensity to detect both red and green apples under speciﬁc
lighting. Pothen [11] presents a keypoint detection algorithm
that detects potential fruit regions based on intensity proﬁle
then uses high-dimensional features in those detected regions
to classify them as fruit or not fruit. Roy [12] estimates apple
count from images as well as their diameters by segmenting
apple clusters in an input image using a nonlinear optimization
method. Then feed the segmented images into a Structure
from Motion (SfM) pipeline to reconstruct them up to scale.
The aforementioned techniques do not produce state-of-the-
art results, are very speciﬁc to the selected crop (e.g., apples),
and cannot be easily translated into yield estimation for other
types of crop without a drastic change in the algorithm.
Additionally, these algorithms can perform poorly outside of
controlled environments, such as light intensity. In our work,
the proposed models can be used with any fruit, given the
appropriate dataset is provided to train the model in different
circumstances, such as poor lighting conditions and occlusion
behind another fruit or leaves.
Deep learning is on the rise in computer vision, with numer-
ous state-of-the-art object detection and image segmentation
algorithms utilizing deep learning models showing promising
accuracy. Furthermore, one of the main advantages of deep
learning is generalization, if the model works on one type
of object, then it’s quite likely to work on other objects. It
only needs to be retrained with a suitable dataset relevant
to the domain of application. Rahnemoonfar [9] prove this
by performing fruit detection on 7 different fruits using
the Faster R-CNN object detector which is trained on the
respective fruit. Bargoti [13] use Multi-Layered Perceptrons
and Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) to perform image
segmentation to detect and count fruits from images. Sa
[7] performs tomato counting using a CNN model that’s a
modiﬁcation of Inception-ResNet [14]. Notably, the data they
used for training is simulated by generating synthetic images
of tomatoes, producing favorable test accuracy on real images
of tomatoes. Chen [15] present a deep learning pipeline for
counting apples and oranges. An image of the crop is input into
a blob detection neural network that is a fully convolutional
network [16] which outputs a segmented image to distinguish
fruit pixels from non-fruit pixels, noting that there could be a
cluster of fruits that’s referred to as a blob. They then use
a count neural network, which is another CNN that takes
bounding boxes around each detection, and estimates the count
of fruit in that box. These works produce great accuracy with
good performance and potential for generalization, showing
that deep learning is a viable methodology for yield estimation.
However, they all work on images, not videos, of crops. This
is an important issue to discuss because, as footage of the
crop is typically taken in video form. In our work, we use the
detection model within a tracking pipeline, which allows the
system to keep track of detections across video frames and
count new detections only once.
Liu [17] addresses counting through videos by using a
fully convolutional neural network (FCN) for object detection,
and optical ﬂow using Kanade-Lucas-Tomasi (KLT) tracker.
However, their tests on apples were run under controlled
illumination. Moreover, KLT-based optical ﬂow tracking has
shortcomings: it relies on the brightness of different regions
in the frames remaining consistent, and that the object motion
in that region has to be consistent. Any change of lighting or
sudden change of motion will cause the tracker to suffer. Their
work also included the use of SfM to avoid counting apples
in different tree rows, which works well but the algorithm
itself is very computational intensive. In our approach, we
use a single-shot-detector (SSD) which is considered the state
of the art solution to object detection problems. Additionally,
we developed a custom tracking pipeline that leverages deep
learning and intersection over union (IoU) matching in order to
properly track objects through sudden motions, and changes in
appearances. We also design a light-weight solution to resolve
apples in back rows being unintentionally detected. Our dataset
and tests are run on apple trees in natural illumination during
daytime.
III. METHODOLOGY
In this section, we discuss the proposed pipeline used to
count fruits. Using a detection model is insufﬁcient on a
video containing the fruits to perform counting, as there is
no way of knowing whether the fruit detected in the ﬁrst
frame is the same as the fruit detected in the second frame
and should not be counted again. As such, we utilize tracking,
where fruits detected in each frame are associated with each
subsequent frame based on similarity metric, allowing their
proper identiﬁcations. Our pipeline is divided into two main
parts: Detection and Tracking.
543
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:47:24 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

A. Detection
Object detection is the process of identifying objects in
an image, classifying them, and returning their pixel-wise
location in the image. This process is accomplished by drawing
bounding boxes around desired objects in an image, these
bounding boxes use coordinates that denote where they lie
on the image. In our case, the object detector must be able
to acquire the location of apples. The model we selected for
detection is YOLOv3 [18].
1) Model Selection: Lately, convolutional neural network
(CNN) based object detectors have been able to achieve state-
of-the-art performance on various benchmark datasets. As a
result of the success of CNNs we decided to use CNNs over
a hand-crafted feature extractor. The basic structure of a CNN
object detector contains two parts, the backbone [19]–[24]
which is responsible for extracting features from the image(s),
and the head [18], [25]–[27] which is responsible to predict
bounding box locations and class values. Recently, CNNs
have been ﬁt with intermediate blocks between the backbone
and the head; commonly called the neck [28]–[33] which is
responsible for collecting feature maps from multiple stages
of feature extraction or feature reﬁnement for feature layers.
Commonly, the goal of the intermediate neck layer/blocks is
to improve accuracy whilst minimizing the incurred overhead.
We chose to use YOLOv3 with spatial pyramid pooling
(YOLOv3-SPP) [18] as the back-end object detector for our
pipeline. Table I shows that YOLOv3-SPP has the best trade-
off for accuracy and speed compared to other current state-
of-the-art object detectors. Note that while the SpineNet [19]
backbone using a Retina [26] prediction network as its head
does provide very promising results, the results are somewhat
skewed by the use of NVIDIA TensorRT [34] (TRT). With
the use of TensorRT you could expect a network’s inference
time to decrease without affecting the accuracy. We do not use
TensorRT in our work because it’s still highly experimental.
The framework is very hardware demanding as it only works
on certain NVIDIA GPUs, and is only compatible with limited
CUDA versions.
2) Model Architecture: You Only Look Once (YOLO) ob-
ject detector is divided into two components: feature extractor
(the backbone) and detector (the head). The feature extractor
is responsible for getting a feature map of the image. YOLO
uses a CNN model called DarkNet53 that uses 53 layers as
shown in Fig. 1. The architecture is fairly straightforward with
multiple convolutional layers to process the input, and residual
layers, which are also known as skip layers, in-between.
Convolutional layers are responsible for analyzing the image
using ﬁlters with varying sizes. The ﬁlter, which is considered
the weight matrix of the convolutional neural network, slides
across the two dimensional input, multiplying with the input,
then slides to the next window based on the stride parameter.
The output of the layer can be considered a mathematical
representation of the image that’s used to classify the object
within the image. Theoretically, the deeper the network is,
the more accurate the classiﬁcation will be. However, that’s
not always the case, hence the introduction of residual layers
[36] which are also used in the YOLO model. Where in
traditional neural networks, each layer feeds directly into the
next layer, residual networks allow for some layers to be
skipped which notably helps in combating vanishing gradients-
where during learning small differences eventually “vanish” in
very deep networks because of how much they propagate. With
skip connections, these small gradients can back-propagate
through shorter paths, allowing for less changes. The outputs
of convolutional layers are considered the feature maps, which
are used in the next stage.
Fig. 1: Darknet53 architecture that is typically used as YOLOv3’s
backbone as seen in [18]
Detectors in the YOLOv3 function are similar to anchor box
object detectors such as Faster R-CNN [37]. YOLO leverages
the output of each of the last 3 convolution stages. Three
stages are selected to allow for multi-scale detection, where
smaller objects are easier to detect in earlier stages, and bigger
objects are easier to detect in later stages. Anchor boxes are
assigned to each cell in the output matrix of the convolution
stages. These anchor boxes have different aspect ratios and
sizes. When learning, the anchor box with the best intersection
with the ground truth bounding box is considered the correct
prediction. Thus, when predicting each box, the information
predicted will be: the location of the box, whether the box
contains an object or not, and what class this object belongs
to.
Non-max suppression (NMS) is applied after all boxes have
been predicted. This is important because it’s possible for the
same object to be detected multiple times. The algorithm takes
the box with the highest conﬁdence, then compares it with all
544
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:47:24 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Method
Backbone
AP
FPS (Batch Size of 1)
GPU
YOLOv3-512 [18]
Darknet-53 [18], [35]
42.4%*
48.7*
Telsa P100 (10 TFLOPS)
YOLOv3-608 [18]
Darknet-53 [18], [35]
43%*
43.1*
Telsa P100 (10 TFLOPS)
EfﬁcientDet-D2 [25]
EfﬁcientNet-B2 [20]
43.9%
56
Tesla V100 (15.7 TFLOPS)
EfﬁcientDet-D3 [25]
EfﬁcientNet-B3 [20]
47.2
34.4
Tesla V100 (15.7 TFLOPS)
RetinaNet [26] (w/TRT)
SpineNet-49S-640 [19]
39.9%
85.4
Tesla V100 (∼30 TFLOPS)
RetinaNet [26] (w/TRT)
SpineNet-49-640 [19]
42.8%
65.3
Tesla V100 (∼30 TFLOPS)
CenterNet-HG [27]
Hourglass-104 [23]
45.1%
7.8
Titan XP (12 TFLOPS)
CenterNet-DLA [27]
DLA-34 [24]
41.6%
28
Titan XP (12 TFLOPS)
TABLE I: Comparison between different SSD models
* Achieved via custom tests.
other potential boxes, if the intersection over Union (IoU) seen
in Fig. 2 is above a certain threshold (0.6 in our case) then it is
removed as it will be considered a redundant box that covers
the same object. This step is performed on all predicted boxes.
It’s important to allow for some intersection to exist in apple
detection, as having multiple apples overlapping occurs often
in apple trees.
Fig. 2: IoU denotes how much two boxes overlap with each other,
with 0.0 being no overlap, and 1.0 meaning they fully intersect
3) Correcting Apple Detections: In our implementation
with apple data, we noticed that apples from other tree rows
are being detected. This is not intended as apple orchards are
divided into rows of trees, and we perform the counting task
on one row at a time as our drone ﬂies between the rows and
provides the video feeds. To solve this problem, we developed
a lightweight thresholding mechanism to correct the detections
returned by YOLO. We tested the detection model standalone
and analyzed the average bounding box sizes of the distant
apples speciﬁcally, and set the bounding box height and width
thresholds accordingly. Any bounding box that has a height
and width below the threshold (30 pixels) is discarded before
moving onto the next step.
For our work, we use YOLOv3 with default conﬁgurations
to detect apples, where we obtain the x, y coordinates of the
center of the box; the width and height of the box; the class it
belongs to; and the class conﬁdence score. All this information
is then used for tracking. The use of default conﬁgurations
allow us to improve the accuracy of detection directly through
the use of transfer learning, where we can simply ﬁne tune the
original weights pretrained on the MSCOCO dataset which
already contains apple data. The dataset and training will be
discussed in Section 5A.
B. Tracking
We extract the bounding boxes from the detector, and per-
form a tracking function in order to keep track of the objects
across the frames. This type of tracking function is considered
a multi-object object tracking, or Multi-Hypothesis-Tracking
(MHT) [38], where there are numerous objects in the frames
that are tracked separately. The algorithm we use for MHT is
a modiﬁed version of DeepSORT [39].
DeepSORT is an extension of the Simple Online Realtime
Tracking (SORT) [40] algorithm. It relies on creating ”tracks”
which represent the objects to be tracked, and applying
Kalman Filter to get states of objects. It then associates
between the same objects in different frames by using distance
metrics, one based on the motion of the object, and the
other based on the appearance of the object. The model gives
favorable performance only using the appearance as a metric
[39], so for our work, we only use the features produced by
the CNN which represent the appearance of the object.
Following the original SORT, DeepSORT performs Kalman
Filtering,
and
deﬁnes
the
tracking
scenario
on
an
8-
dimensional state space (x, y, a, h, ¨x, ¨y, ¨a, ¨h) which respectively
denote the center x and y coordinates of the bounding box,
the aspect ratio and height, and their velocities. A linear
Kalman Filter following a constant velocity model is used,
which is standard for object tracking [41]. The bounding box
coordinates (x, y, a, h) which are received from YOLO are used
without modiﬁcation. DeepSORT then uses deep learning and
CNN features to create associations between new detections
and the current tracked objects by using a minimum cost
algorithm to obtain the objects with the minimum distance
with their associated tracks.
1) Track Initialization: After we obtain the ﬁrst bounding
boxes from YOLO, the ﬁrst step in the DeepSORT pipeline
is initializing the track object for the detections. The track is
given a number of attributes including:
• Track ID as an identiﬁer
• Age which denotes how many frames this track existed
in, initialized as 1
545
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:47:24 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

• Number of hits which is incremented every time this track
is successfully associated, initialized as 1
• Feature matrix which is the output of the CNN and
represents the object’s appearance
• Track state which represents the current state of the track
so it can be conﬁrmed or deleted, initialized as tentative
• Mean and covariance matrices which are used for the
Kalman Filter that are updated with every prediction
2) Convolutional Neural Network: The key point of Deep-
SORT is the use of deep convolutional features. When in-
putting an image into a CNN, the features of the images are
analyzed within every layer, then once all the convolutional
layers are ﬁnished, an activation function such as softmax is
applied on the output vector to classify the object. Intuitively,
this means that the vector output after convolutional layers
describes the appearance of whatever is in the image. This
was leveraged in YOLO in order to detect objects, and it’s
also used in DeepSORT’s pipeline as the appearance metric
for tracking. The use of appearance allows for better tracking
in case of a random object motion and occlusion, which are
both very common challenges in tracking applications.
The original model used is a wide residual network that’s
been trained on a person re-identiﬁcation dataset [42] which
is limited to people tracking (speciﬁcally, pedestrians) making
it unsuitable for any fruit data. Thus, in this work we insert a
different CNN model that shows state-of-the-art performance
called ResNet18 [36]. We opted to select and implement
ResNet, instead of building a CNN model from scratch for
a number of reasons. Firstly, ResNet has been used in a wide
variety of applications for years now, and its performance and
drawbacks have been studied- its robustness is unmatched.
Additionally, ResNet comes with a number of conﬁgurations,
mainly different depths. This gives us the option to select a
depth based on our needs. For our system, we implemented
ResNet18, as it shows the fastest performance, and apple
features are not complex enough to justify more layers. Most
importantly, ResNet provides weights that are pretrained on
the ImageNet classiﬁcation dataset [43], a massive dataset with
1000 classes, including fruits such as apples for our applica-
tion. This allows us to skip any complexity with training the
feature extractor of DeepSORT, and allows the DeepSORT
pipeline to be used for almost any fruit without needing to
modify the tracking model or any further training.
Fig. 3 showcases the architecture of ResNet18. There are 5
convolutional layers, and a skip connection is in between every
layer. After the ﬁnal convolutional layer, there is an average
pooling layer which leads to an output vector of size [1, 1, 512]
that’s input into a fully connected layer for classiﬁcation. Since
we do not perform classiﬁcation and we need the appearance
descriptor of the object, we take the output of the average
pooling layer as our ﬁnal output to be treated as the feature
map of the object.
3) Association and Counting: Given a set of tracks, and
their feature maps, and a set of detections and their feature
maps, the model must know how to associate between them.
This is an assignment problem to be solved using the Hungar-
Fig. 3: ResNet18 architecture that we use for DeepSORT’s feature
extraction, we discard the fully connect and softmax layers as seen
in [36]
ian algorithm, which is a standard minimum cost algorithm.
The problem shown in Eq. III-B3 is formulated as follows:
given an array of tracks (T) of size t, and an array of detections
(D) of size d, we compute a new cost matrix (C) where index
[i, j] is the cosine similarity between the feature map of T(i)
and the feature map of D(j). After the matrix is complete, we
simply ﬁnd the minimum cost for each track in T out of all
the detections and that forms the association.
C(i, j) = min(1 −[D(j)T ∗T(i)])
There are a number of considerations though. First, a track is
not immediately conﬁrmed upon association. The track needs
to have a number of hits greater than 2 to change its state
to “conﬁrmed”. This helps to avoid brief false detections.
Secondly, not all tracks will be associated. The distance
(where 0.0 denotes an exact match, and 1.0 denotes completely
different features) needs to meet a certain threshold to be
considered as a match. Following the original implementation,
the maximum distance is 0.15, meaning that for anything
higher, the match will be discarded. If a track isn’t associated,
then it will remain saved for a number of frames until its age
surpasses the preset maximum age, which we set as 30. In a
30 FPS video, if an object is not associated for 1 second, then
it is also discarded as it is considered to have left the scene.
Before unmatched detections are initialized as new tracks,
they undergo IoU matching ﬁrst. Speciﬁcally, the IoU between
two tracks bounding boxes is computed, and if the IoU is 0.3
or greater (meaning that there is some intersection), the tracks
are associated with each other. This improves the tracking
robustness because sometimes, an apple can be clear in one
frame, obscured in another (thus having different features),
then clear again in the following frame. The IoU tracking steps
546
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:47:24 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Metrics
Pretrained Weights
Pretrained Weights with Correction
ﬁne tuned Weights
Predicted/Ground Truth
523/342
299/342
313/342
L1 Loss
181
43
29
Accuracy
47.06%
87.43%
91.5%
TABLE II: Results of the proposed pipeline running on a video clip of apples. We show the predicted count versus the actual count
and compute the L1 Loss and Accuracy. The accuracy was low with the pretrained weights due to a signiﬁcant overcount. Our correction
mechanism substantially improved the accuracy, however ﬁne tuning the weights led to the best performance.
in and helps keeping track of that apple when an appearance
association can brieﬂy fail.
Another important parameter in DeepSORT includes a min-
imum conﬁdence, which is the minimum accepted conﬁdence
from the detector (YOLO in this case). Anything lower than
the minimum conﬁdence causes the detection not to be inserted
into the tracking pipeline. We selected a score of 0.3, as apples
that were partially hidden by leaves or branches, or apples that
were blurred due to camera motion were indeed detected, but
with notably lower conﬁdence, thus a lower threshold allowed
for such apples to be taken into account. It was also observed
that with thresholds lower than 0.3 started to include wrong
detections, mostly leaves that were mistakenly detected as
apples and have very low conﬁdence scores. All thresholds
were selected by referring to the non-modiﬁed implementation
of DeepSORT and informal experimenting.
For counting, it’s important to note that while every new
track has its own ID, we cannot use the track ID as a reference
for the count since some tracks remain tentative and become
deleted if not properly associated. As such, the apples are
counted once the track becomes conﬁrmed.
IV. EXPERIMENTS AND RESULTS
A. Dataset Preparation
The use of transfer learning allows us to use a small dataset
to improve the performance of the object detector. In this
work, we ﬁne tune YOLO’s weights using a small dataset of
150 images of apples. The apple footage was collected from
an apple orchard in sunny lighting. Half of the dataset are
close up images of the apples, and the other half are images
of apple trees. The dataset was manually annotated, with a
couple of important considerations that improve the detector’s
performance.
Lighting and occlusion both pose challenges during detec-
tion and tracking. There are many cases where the trees’
shadows dim the lighting of the apples, and the leaves or
branches cover the apples. To tackle this problem, it is essential
to include data where these cases occur, and annotate them
appropriately. Table III illustrates different conditions and their
respective annotations.
B. Weight Conﬁgurations
In well established computer vision neural networks,
weights that have already been trained on large datasets
are typically provided to accelerate implementation and the
training process. First, we tested using YOLO’s provided
weights, that have been pretarined on the MSCOCO dataset
which consists of 80 classes. We only return detections that
are classiﬁed as apples. However, the experiment led to a
large amount of apples from other rows being detected, thus
we developed and applied our correction mechanism, and
discarded very small apples. Then, we conﬁgured the model
settings to only contain the apple class and use the ﬁne tuned
weights. The model is trained for 5000 epochs with default
training conﬁgurations. ResNet18’s pretrained weights are not
changed, as our goal with modifying the tracker is to make it
a generalized solution.
Fig. 4: From the apple orchard video used, some apples from a back
row tree are being detected and tracked
C. Results and Analysis
For evaluation, we compute the accuracy by comparing
between the yield predicted by the model, and ground truth
count which is performed manually by a human.
Table II shows the result of running our pipeline on the
apple videos. We ran the experiments over 3 different model
conﬁgurations: ﬁne tuned weights, pretrained weights, and
pretrained weights corrected by our mechanism. We compute
the L1 Loss between the predicted and ground truth, and
compute the accuracy using the following equation where GT
is the ground truth, and L is the computed loss.
Accuracy = GT −L
GT
∗100
547
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:47:24 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

As expected, using just YOLO’s pretrained weights lead to a
signiﬁcant over count of 181 apples. This is due to how YOLO
was trained on a massive dataset (MSCOCO) that featured
apples of various sizes. Fig. 4 shows a video frame where a
distant apple tree has 3 apples that were detected and tracked.
At ﬁrst, we aimed to solve the problem by increasing the
minimum conﬁdence needed for the detection to be tracked.
However, that didn’t help as there were other cases where the
apple detection had lower conﬁdence due to being occluded
by other objects or, more commonly, blurred due to camera
motion. Thus, the solution needed to tackle distant apples
speciﬁcally. We ran the detection model on the same video
and output all of the detections into the ﬁle, and we analyzed
the detections against their respective apples to see the average
size of a distant apple. Once we got an estimated size (30
pixels width and height) for the apple, we used that threshold
in our correction mechanism.
Using YOLO’s pretrained weights with the correction mech-
anism yielded a substantially better result, where the model
under-counted by 43 apples, giving an accuracy of 87.43%. We
looked at how the detection was behaving, and we observed
that while distant apples were no longer being detected, the
detection model would sometimes struggle with occluded
apples. The detector itself also yielded average conﬁdence
levels, which did not cause an issue in our experiment due to
our minimum conﬁdence being fairly low, but would perform
worse if the minimum conﬁdence is increased. To address
these issues, we use transfer learning and ﬁne tune YOLO’s
weights using the dataset discussed previously. We make
sure to include occluded apples and apples with different
shading. We also changed the conﬁguration of YOLO to only
include the apple class instead of MSCOCO’s 80 classes. Our
ﬁne tuned weights showed an improvement, with the model
under-counting by only 29 apples, with our accuracy being
91.5%. Upon closer observation of this experiment, we found
more occluded apples being detected appropriately, and the
tracker was able to successfully identify and keep track of
such detections. Figures 5, 6 and 7 illustrate the detection
and tracking throughout three frames. More importantly, we
learned that our correction mechanism was no longer needed,
as we completely avoided annotating distant apples, which
allowed us to remove the extra computation. However, there
were still some apples that were heavily occluded that were
not detected throughout all the video frames they were present
in. Thus, apples that are almost completely hidden, despite
any change in angle or lighting as the camera moves, pose a
challenge to our pipeline.
V. CONCLUSION
We present a fully deep learning-based solution for fruit
counting, and have proven its functionality with video data
gathered from an apple orchard. Instead of performing count-
ing on still images, we perform accurate counting on videos
by designing a pipeline that consists of a detector that can
recognize fruits and return their pixel-wise locations, and a
tracker that associates between fruit detections across frames
and outputs a count of the fruits. We utilize YOLO for
its accurate frame by frame detections with low processing
times. We tested our apple data on pretrained weights, which
performed detection correctly, but would detect apples in
other rows leading to over counting. We solve this problem
by acquiring the different possible sizes of apples through
detection, and implementing a threshold mechanism that dis-
cards very small and distant apples accordingly. In a different
conﬁguration, we ﬁne tune the weights of YOLO, ensuring the
presence of occluded apples, and apples in different lighting
for more versatile detection. The correction mechanism was
not needed in that speciﬁc case as we do not annotate distant
apples. We then integrate DeepSORT’s tracking algorithm into
our pipeline, which keeps track of objects based on their
appearance features. The original implementation is limited to
only person-reidentiﬁcation, so we change the feature extractor
to perform tracking on fruits. We implemented a pretrained
ResNet18 model as the feature extractor for its robustness. We
show that since ResNet has weights pretrained on ImageNet,
which has 1000 classes, we did not need to modify the model
or its weights for apples, nor would we need to for many
other fruits. Our pipeline with ﬁne tuned weights successfully
counted the apples at 91.5% accuracy. For our future work, we
plan to test the model on other fruits such as oranges, which
would only require ﬁne tuning the object detector. Moreover,
since our primary challenge is during the detection stage,
we also plan to use different detection techniques that can
theoretically outperform YOLO, and test their practicality in
fruit detection.
Fig. 5: Apples, despite not being completely visible, are detected
and given track IDs
REFERENCES
[1] D. Corwin and S. Lesch, “Application of soil electrical conductivity
to precision agriculture: theory, principles, and guidelines,” Agronomy
journal, vol. 95, no. 3, pp. 455–471, 2003.
548
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:47:24 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Case
Image
Description
1
Apple is partially occluded by a leaf; we include the leaf in the image so the
model can learn apples with some leaf features
2
Half of the apple is occluded by a leaf; we include half the apple so the model
can recognize what half an apple looks like and avoid over-training the model
to start mistaking leaves for apples
3
Apple is heavily occluded by leaves, we only include the visible part of the
apple, improving the models ability to recognize partial apple features
4
Apple is overlapping with another apple; though this problem is normally
mended as the video progresses and the angle changes, we still want to ensure
that the model is able to identify different apples detections that intersect with
each other
5
Apples under different lighting: we address the variance in natural lighting
where some spots are bright, and others are very dim by including apples
under different lighting conditions
TABLE III: Different cases that affect the appearance of an apple that we include in our training dataset
[2] L. Tian, J. F. Reid, and J. W. Hummel, “Development of a precision
sprayer for site-speciﬁc weed management,” Transactions of the ASAE,
vol. 42, no. 4, p. 893, 1999.
[3] N. Zhang, M. Wang, and N. Wang, “Precision agriculture—a worldwide
overview,” Computers and electronics in agriculture, vol. 36, no. 2-3,
pp. 113–132, 2002.
[4] V. Puri, A. Nayyar, and L. Raja, “Agriculture drones: A modern break-
through in precision agriculture,” Journal of Statistics and Management
Systems, vol. 20, no. 4, pp. 507–518, 2017.
[5] A. Syal, D. Garg, and S. Sharma, “A survey of computer vision
methods for counting fruits and yield prediction,” International Journal
of Computer Science Engineering, vol. 2, no. 6, pp. 346–350, 2013.
[6] A. Voulodimos, N. Doulamis, A. Doulamis, and E. Protopapadakis,
“Deep learning for computer vision: A brief review,” Computational
intelligence and neuroscience, vol. 2018, 2018.
[7] I. Sa, Z. Ge, F. Dayoub, B. Upcroft, T. Perez, and C. McCool,
“Deepfruits: A fruit detection system using deep neural networks,”
Sensors, vol. 16, no. 8, p. 1222, 2016.
[8] Y. Tian, G. Yang, Z. Wang, H. Wang, E. Li, and Z. Liang, “Apple
detection during different growth stages in orchards using the improved
yolo-v3 model,” Computers and electronics in agriculture, vol. 157, pp.
417–426, 2019.
[9] M. Rahnemoonfar and C. Sheppard, “Deep count: fruit counting based
on deep simulated learning,” Sensors, vol. 17, no. 4, p. 905, 2017.
[10] Q. Wang, S. Nuske, M. Bergerman, and S. Singh, “Automated crop yield
estimation for apple orchards,” in Experimental robotics.
Springer,
2013, pp. 745–758.
[11] Z. S. Pothen and S. Nuske, “Texture-based fruit detection via images
549
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:47:24 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Fig. 6: The detected apples maintain their track IDs so long as they’re
detected. Apple ID 589 was not detected in this frame, thus is not
shown
Fig. 7: The change in angle allowed the detector to detect a
previously missed apple (ID 598), in addition, the tracker was able
to re-identify apple ID 589 when it was detected again
using the smooth patterns on the fruit,” in 2016 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA).
IEEE, 2016, pp.
5171–5176.
[12] P. Roy and V. Isler, “Surveying apple orchards with a monocular vision
system,” in 2016 IEEE international conference on automation science
and engineering (CASE).
IEEE, 2016, pp. 916–921.
[13] S. Bargoti and J. P. Underwood, “Image segmentation for fruit detection
and yield estimation in apple orchards,” Journal of Field Robotics,
vol. 34, no. 6, pp. 1039–1060, 2017.
[14] C. Szegedy, S. Ioffe, V. Vanhoucke, and A. Alemi, “Inception-v4,
inception-resnet and the impact of residual connections on learning,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:1602.07261, 2016.
[15] S. W. Chen, S. S. Shivakumar, S. Dcunha, J. Das, E. Okon, C. Qu, C. J.
Taylor, and V. Kumar, “Counting apples and oranges with deep learning:
A data-driven approach,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, vol. 2,
no. 2, pp. 781–788, 2017.
[16] J. Long, E. Shelhamer, and T. Darrell, “Fully convolutional networks
for semantic segmentation,” in Proceedings of the IEEE conference on
computer vision and pattern recognition, 2015, pp. 3431–3440.
[17] X. Liu, S. W. Chen, S. Aditya, N. Sivakumar, S. Dcunha, C. Qu,
C. J. Taylor, J. Das, and V. Kumar, “Robust fruit counting: Combining
deep learning, tracking, and structure from motion,” in 2018 IEEE/RSJ
International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS).
IEEE, 2018, pp. 1045–1052.
[18] J. Redmon and A. Farhadi, “Yolov3: An incremental improvement,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:1804.02767, 2018.
[19] X. Du, T.-Y. Lin, P. Jin, G. Ghiasi, M. Tan, Y. Cui, Q. V. Le, and
X. Song, “Spinenet: Learning scale-permuted backbone for recognition
and localization,” 2019.
[20] M. Tan and Q. V. Le, “Efﬁcientnet: Rethinking model scaling for
convolutional neural networks,” 2019.
[21] C.-Y. Wang, H.-Y. M. Liao, I.-H. Yeh, Y.-H. Wu, P.-Y. Chen, and J.-W.
Hsieh, “Cspnet: A new backbone that can enhance learning capability
of cnn,” 2019.
[22] P. Chao, C.-Y. Kao, Y.-S. Ruan, C.-H. Huang, and Y.-L. Lin, “Hardnet:
A low memory trafﬁc network,” 2019.
[23] A. Newell, K. Yang, and J. Deng, “Stacked hourglass networks for
human pose estimation,” 2016.
[24] F. Yu, D. Wang, E. Shelhamer, and T. Darrell, “Deep layer aggregation,”
2017.
[25] M. Tan, R. Pang, and Q. V. Le, “Efﬁcientdet: Scalable and efﬁcient
object detection,” 2019.
[26] T.-Y. Lin, P. Goyal, R. Girshick, K. He, and P. Doll´ar, “Focal loss for
dense object detection,” 2017.
[27] X. Zhou, D. Wang, and P. Kr¨ahenb¨uhl, “Objects as points,” 2019.
[28] K. He, X. Zhang, S. Ren, and J. Sun, “Spatial pyramid pooling
in
deep
convolutional
networks
for
visual
recognition,”
Lecture
Notes in Computer Science, p. 346–361, 2014. [Online]. Available:
http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-10578-923
[29] T.-Y. Lin, P. Doll´ar, R. Girshick, K. He, B. Hariharan, and S. Belongie,
“Feature pyramid networks for object detection,” 2016.
[30] S. Liu, D. Huang, and Y. Wang, “Learning spatial fusion for single-shot
object detection,” 2019.
[31] S. Woo, J. Park, J.-Y. Lee, and I. S. Kweon, “Cbam: Convolutional block
attention module,” 2018.
[32] L.-C. Chen, G. Papandreou, I. Kokkinos, K. Murphy, and A. L. Yuille,
“Deeplab: Semantic image segmentation with deep convolutional nets, atrous
convolution, and fully connected crfs,” 2016.
[33] S. Liu, D. Huang, and Y. Wang, “Receptive ﬁeld block net for accurate and
fast object detection,” 2017.
[34] “Nvidia
tensorrt,”
Aug
2020.
[Online].
Available:
https://developer.nvidia.com/tensorrt
[35] J.
Redmon,
“Darknet:
Open
source
neural
networks
in
c,”
http://pjreddie.com/darknet/, 2013–2016.
[36] K. He, X. Zhang, S. Ren, and J. Sun, “Deep residual learning for image
recognition,” in Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and
pattern recognition, 2016, pp. 770–778.
[37] S. Ren, K. He, R. Girshick, and J. Sun, “Faster r-cnn: Towards real-time object
detection with region proposal networks,” in Advances in neural information
processing systems, 2015, pp. 91–99.
[38] B. Leibe, K. Schindler, and L. Van Gool, “Coupled detection and trajectory
estimation for multi-object tracking,” in 2007 IEEE 11th International Con-
ference on Computer Vision.
IEEE, 2007, pp. 1–8.
[39] N. Wojke, A. Bewley, and D. Paulus, “Simple online and realtime tracking
with a deep association metric,” in 2017 IEEE international conference on
image processing (ICIP).
IEEE, 2017, pp. 3645–3649.
[40] A. Bewley, Z. Ge, L. Ott, F. Ramos, and B. Upcroft, “Simple online
and realtime tracking,” in 2016 IEEE International Conference on Image
Processing (ICIP).
IEEE, 2016, pp. 3464–3468.
[41] X. Li, K. Wang, W. Wang, and Y. Li, “A multiple object tracking method using
kalman ﬁlter,” in The 2010 IEEE international conference on information and
automation.
IEEE, 2010, pp. 1862–1866.
[42] L. Zheng, Z. Bie, Y. Sun, J. Wang, C. Su, S. Wang, and Q. Tian, “Mars:
A video benchmark for large-scale person re-identiﬁcation,” in European
Conference on Computer Vision.
Springer, 2016, pp. 868–884.
[43] J. Deng, W. Dong, R. Socher, L.-J. Li, K. Li, and L. Fei-Fei, “Imagenet:
A large-scale hierarchical image database,” in 2009 IEEE conference on
computer vision and pattern recognition.
Ieee, 2009, pp. 248–255.
550
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:47:24 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
