3860
IEEE ROBOTICS AND AUTOMATION LETTERS, VOL. 11, NO. 3, MARCH 2026
Incremental 3D Crop Model Association for
Real-Time Counting in Dense Orchards
Daesung Park
, KwangEun Ko
, Dongbum Pyo
, and Jaehyeon Kang
Abstract—Accurate real-time crop counting is essential for au-
tonomous agricultural systems. However, existing methods often
fail in dense plantings due to heavy foliage, irregular planting
patterns, and frequent occlusions. While 2D tracking suffers from
double-counting and 3D reconstruction requires ofﬂine process-
ing, we propose a real-time crop counting framework that in-
crementally constructs global 3D crop instances during data col-
lection. Each crop is modeled as a 3D oriented bounding box,
initialized upon detection and updated with subsequent observa-
tions. To ensure robust association across frames, we employ 3D
Generalized Intersection over Union (GIoU) for spatial matching
and conﬁdence-based ﬁltering for validation, effectively reducing
double-counting in dense orchards. Unlike prior methods, our
approach supports on-the-ﬂy counting without post-hoc recon-
struction and performs reliably in unstructured ﬁeld conditions.
Experimental results demonstrate the accuracy and real-time ca-
pability of the proposed system in dense agricultural settings.
Index Terms—Agricultural automation, robotics and automa-
tion in agriculture and forestry, object detection, segmentation and
categorization.
I. INTRODUCTION
R
EAL-TIME crop counting is essential for autonomous agri-
cultural systems, enabling responsive decision-making in tasks
such as multi-robot coordination, targeted interventions, and adaptive
harvesting. However, achieving precise counts in unstructured envi-
ronments, such as natural orchards or open ﬁelds, remains challeng-
ing. Unlike controlled trellis or row-wise setups, unstructured settings
lack regular plant arrangements and often feature dense foliage, high
planting density, and minimal spacing between plants (e.g., 0.2 m).
These factors lead to frequent occlusions and partial views of crops,
signiﬁcantly degrading counting performance.
Received 3 October 2025; accepted 30 December 2025. Date of publication
6 February 2026; date of current version 17 February 2026. This article was
recommended for publication by Associate Editor H. I. Son and Editor H. Moon
upon evaluation of the reviewers’ comments. This work was supported in part by
the Industrial Technology Innovation Program (Development of an Agricultural
Robot Platform Capable of Continuously Harvesting more than 3 Fruits per
minute and Controlling Multiple Transport Robots in an Outdoor Orchard
Environment) funded by the Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy (MOTIE,
Korea) under Grant 20023014 and in part by the Korea Institute of Planning and
Evaluation for Technology in Food, Agriculture and Forestry (IPET) through
funding from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs under Grant
RS-2025-02310974. (Corresponding author: Jaehyeon Kang.)
Daesung Park, KwangEun Ko, and Dongbum Pyo are with the Human-Centric
Robotics R&D Department, Korea Institute of Industrial Technology, Ansan
15588, Republic of Korea.
Jaehyeon
Kang
is
with
the
Department
of
Computer
Engineer-
ing, Gachon University, Seongnam 13120, Republic of Korea (e-mail:
jhkang@gachon.ac.kr).
This
article
has
supplementary
downloadable
material
available
at
https://doi.org/10.1109/LRA.2026.3662648, provided by the authors.
Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/LRA.2026.3662648
Fig. 1.
Real-time incremental crop counting in densely planted environments.
The proposed method enables real-time crop counting by combining 3D crop
modeling with incremental data association within the 3D reconstruction pro-
cess. Rather than relying on 2D tracking or post-hoc global reconstruction, the
system continuously updates global 3D crop models on-the-ﬂy. This approach
offers a practical and real-time solution, addressing the limitations of 2D tracking
(double-counting) and 3D reconstruction (ofﬂine processing and reconstruction
failures) methods in dense and irregular cultivation settings.
Traditional 2D tracking-by-detection methods identify crops in im-
age frames and associate them over time for automated crop count-
ing. These frameworks support real-time processing due to their low
computational cost. However, they are prone to double-counting due
to tracking loss caused by occlusions or detection failures. This is
particularly problematic in unstructured environments, where dense
crops and irregular foliage cause frequent occlusions. Additionally,
unpredictable scanning paths in such settings increase the likelihood
of crop revisits, during which 2D trackers assign new instance IDs to
previously observed crops, resulting in repeated counts.
To minimize double-counting, alternative approaches reconstruct
a 3D model of the environment using techniques like simultaneous
localization and mapping (SLAM) and structure-from-motion (SfM).
However, these methods are unsuitable for real-time crop counting
due to high computational demands from batch processing. Moreover,
vision-based systems in unstructured agricultural settings suffer from
frequent occlusions and weak visual features, leading to reconstruc-
tions with holes, noise, and misalignments. Additionally, the repetitive
appearance of vegetation causes unreliable loop closure for SLAM.
In particular, specialized sensors like RGB-D become ineffective in
ambient sunlight, which severely degrades their depth-sensing capabil-
ities. Although LiDAR is robust to these visual issues, it faces distinct
challenges, as the constrained space in dense orchards ampliﬁes noise
from nearby objects, leading to accumulated mapping errors.
We propose a real-time, incremental 3D association framework using
a LiDAR-Visual-Inertial conﬁguration that avoids the pitfalls of both
error-prone 2D tracking and ofﬂine 3D reconstruction (Fig. 1). Its
parallelized architecture decouples state estimation from crop model
processing, achieving the spatial perception of 3D methods while main-
taining real-time performance (28 Hz). The system builds a persistent
2377-3766 © 2026 IEEE. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining, and training of artiﬁcial intelligence and similar technologies.
Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission. See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:46:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

PARK et al.: INCREMENTAL 3D CROP MODEL ASSOCIATION FOR REAL-TIME COUNTING IN DENSE ORCHARDS
3861
Fig. 2.
Failure cases of 3D reconstruction in a densely planted environ-
ment with minimal space between plants. In the camera-based reconstruction
(COLMAP [1]), the target plant (green circle) is incomplete due to limited
image overlap and frequent occlusions. In the LiDAR-based reconstruction
(FAST-LIVO [2]), noise increases in close-proximity plant regions, leading to
accumulated errors that make the reconstructed plants and crops difﬁcult to
recognize.
map by modeling crops as 3D oriented bounding boxes. These models
are initialized from ﬁltered local scans and incrementally fused across
frames by associating them via 3D Generalized Intersection over Union
(GIoU), with conﬁdence-based ﬁltering applied to the fused detections.
This incremental strategy eliminates double-counting, avoids batch
processing delays, and ensures robustness against 3D reconstruction
failures (Fig. 2), providing a practical real-time solution for crop
counting.
The key contributions of our approach include:
r We introduce a crop counting method for densely planted envi-
ronments with irregular arrangements, where existing 2D tracking
and 3D reconstruction methods often fail.
r We represent each crop as a 3D bounding box, initialized at ﬁrst
detectionusingspatialﬁlteringandgeometricﬁtting,thenupdated
with subsequent observations to handle viewpoint-dependent oc-
clusions.
r We incrementally associate crops by spatially matching new de-
tections to existing instances via 3D GIoU, then validate matches
using conﬁdence scores from the fused detections to ensure
identity consistency over time.
r We design a real-time pipeline, which allows continuous crop
count updates during scanning and highlights the practical value
of the proposed system.
r We validate our framework’s real-time counting accuracy in dense
orchards through extensive experiments on a ﬁeld dataset, which
we make publicly available.
II. RELATED WORK
Image-based crop detection and tracking are widely used approaches
for crop counting. Das et al. [3] employed SVM-based crop detection
followed by optical-ﬂow tracking to count crops in row-wise envi-
ronments. Halstead et al. [4] performed IoU-based tracking, assuming
one-directional robot path along rows in structured greenhouses with
regularly spaced plants. Subsequent research [5] enhanced the tracking
by incorporating wheel odometry-based reprojection and depth ﬁltering
for counting row-wise and trellised crops in glasshouses.
A comparative study by Villacrés et al. [6] evaluated multi-object
tracking methods for crop counting in structured, row-wise apple
orchards, ﬁnding that DeepSORT [7] achieved the lowest counting
error. AgriSORT [8] extended appearance-based trackers like Deep-
SORT by integrating motion-based tracking with Kalman ﬁltering for
real-time multi-object tracking in structured, row-wise trellis vineyards.
Similarly, CascadeSORT [9] addresses crop counting by combining
Kalman ﬁltering with cascade matching that leverages both appearance
and motion features. Tu et al. [10] proposed a central region counting
strategy to enhance the accuracy of tracking-based yield estimation by
deﬁning a robust region of interest.
These tracking-by-detection methods struggle with double-counting
due to revisits, limiting their applicability to structured row-wise en-
vironments. This challenge is more signiﬁcant in unstructured settings
with dense, irregular planting, where random scanning paths in uncon-
trolled environments lead to frequent crop revisits.
To address double-counting in tracking-based frameworks, several
studiespreprocess3Dmapreconstructionbeforetracking.Liuetal.[11]
combined crop pixel detection with object tracking using the Kanade-
Lucas-Tomasi (KLT) tracker and Kalman ﬁlter, incorporating ofﬂine
SfM-based 3D reconstruction to remove double-counting and outliers.
Santos et al. [12] introduced a grape tracking method that leverages
instance connectivity by projecting points from ofﬂine SfM onto 2D
segmentation masks in row-wise trellis environments. In contrast, our
approach enables real-time crop counting without relying on ofﬂine
reconstruction.
Anotherapproachinvolvesreconstructing3Dmapsbeforeextracting
crops from the reconstructed model. Liu et al. [13] used semantic SfM
with crop and trunk pixels to convert 2D detections into 3D landmarks,
preventing double-counting in row-wise orchards. Dong et al. [14]
combined semantic segmentation and SfM map, identifying 3D crop
points by intersecting segmented crop pixels with projected SfM points,
followed by 3D connected component analysis [15] for apple counting
in row-wise orchards. Fusaro et al. [16] used MinkPanoptic [17] to
extract crop instances from colored point clouds in row-wise green-
houses. Meyer et al. [18] applied NeRF for multi-fruit counting using
contrastive learning.
Unlike methods that extract crops from reconstructed maps, the
proposed method achieves real-time crop counting by incrementally as-
sociating crop models within the 3D reconstruction process. Moreover,
existing methods focus on controlled row-wise settings, whereas our
approach targets unstructured environments with dense and irregular
planting, where SfM and LiDAR-based reconstruction fail, as shown
in Fig. 2.
Recent advances in 3D object detection (e.g., [19]), driven by au-
tonomous driving, have shown promising results. However, the main
challenge for applying these methods in agriculture is their need for 3D
bounding box annotations—data that is common in autonomous driving
but difﬁcult to acquire in dense orchards. High levels of LiDAR noise
from cluttered foliage make the 3D annotation process unreliable. Our
framework avoids this bottleneck by operating with more accessible
2D annotations, providing a practical and deployable solution.
III. CROP COUNTING ALGORITHM
A. Overview
Fig. 3 illustrates the pipeline of the proposed real-time crop counting
algorithm based on the incremental association of 3D crop models.
Given camera, LiDAR, and IMU inputs, our method estimates sen-
sor poses using a LiDAR-Inertial-Visual odometry algorithm (FAST-
LIVO) [2]. It produces synchronized, posed image–point cloud pairs
through tightly-coupled sensor fusion within an iterative Kalman ﬁlter
framework.
The resulting posed images are used to estimate crop models in a
global map. From each frame, crop instances with conﬁdence scores are
segmented using YOLOv11 [20]. The synchronized point cloud is then
projected onto each segment to extract its instance-wise 3D points, and a
3D oriented bounding box is ﬁtted to create the initial crop model. These
per-frame models are incrementally associated with the global 3D crop
map by measuring GIoU, either registered as new entities or merged
with existing models in the crop model database. After conﬁdence-
based ﬁltering, the remaining crop models in the global map determine
the current count.
B. 3D Crop Model Generation
Each crop is represented by a 3D Oriented Bounding Box (3D OBB),
providing a compact description of its position, orientation, and size.
The OBB is parameterized by a center point, three orthogonal unit
vectors deﬁning its orientation (the box’s local axes), and correspond-
ing half-lengths along each axis. This representation supports robust
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:46:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

3862
IEEE ROBOTICS AND AUTOMATION LETTERS, VOL. 11, NO. 3, MARCH 2026
Fig. 3.
Pipeline of the proposed real-time crop counting system. Camera, LiDAR, and IMU data are fused via FAST-LIVO [2] for state estimation. Tracked
images and point clouds are used for crop detection and 3D crop model generation, with each crop represented as a 3D oriented bounding box. The generated
models are incrementally associated with a global 3D crop map using GIoU, then ﬁltered by segmentation conﬁdence scores, enabling real-time crop counting in
dense environments.
Fig. 4.
Comparison of global and scan-wise crop points. Global crop points
(left) exhibit accumulated noise due to high LiDAR noise near crops in densely
planted orchards. In contrast, scan-wise crop points (right), colored by frame,
capture localized observations from individual LiDAR poses, enabling more
effective noise suppression.
association across viewpoints and effectively suppresses LiDAR noise,
especially ampliﬁed in densely planted environments, through spatial
noise ﬁltering and geometric ﬁtting.
Direct crop extraction from global point clouds suffers from noise
accumulation, particularly in densely planted ﬁelds, where LiDAR
noise is ampliﬁed by nearby vegetation and compounds over time.
This leads to irregular noise artifacts around target crops, reducing the
crop extraction accuracy from the global map. In contrast, constructing
crop models from local per-frame scans systematically reduces such
artifacts by keeping noise localized along the LiDAR ray direction. The
proposed system ﬁlters each local scan before crop model generation,
preventing cross-viewpoint noise accumulation. Fig. 4 illustrates a
visual comparison of global and scan-wise crop points.
For local modeling, we obtain conﬁdence-scored 2D instance seg-
mentations using YOLOv11 [20]. We then extract 3D crop points by
projecting the pre-calibrated LiDAR point cloud onto the image plane
and selecting the points that fall within each segmentation mask. This
process yields localized 3D point clusters corresponding to each crop
instance.
We then apply a noise ﬁltering step by removing points whose Eu-
clideandistancetotheirnearestneighborexceedsapredeﬁnedthreshold
(0.1 m in this work). To ensure reliable bounding box estimation, only
clusters with at least ﬁve points remaining after ﬁltering are used. For
each valid cluster, the crop model center is deﬁned as the centroid of
the ﬁltered points. The 3D OBB orientation is estimated using Principal
Component Analysis (PCA), implemented via the Point Cloud Library
(PCL) [21], with the principal axes forming the local coordinate frame
of the OBB. The bounding box dimensions are then determined by
computing the minimum and maximum extents of the ﬁltered points
along these axes.
Each generated 3D OBB encapsulates a unique crop ID, position,
orientation, dimensions, and segmentation conﬁdence score. These
bounding boxes are incrementally integrated and updated as new ob-
servations are acquired, enabling real-time crop tracking and counting.
To support crop model updates, the point cloud associated with each
crop instance is preserved and cumulatively merged with subsequent
observations from different viewpoints. This fusion enhances model
completeness and strengthens association reliability. The criteria for
identifying whether two observations correspond to the same crop
instance are detailed in the following section.
C. Incremental Association
The proposed method incrementally associates newly generated 3D
crop models with existing models in the global crop map to enable
accurate crop counting. To achieve this, each local 3D crop model, de-
rived from each consecutive image–point cloud pair, is ﬁrst transformed
into the global coordinate frame using the corresponding odometry
pose estimated by FAST-LIVO [2]. The transformed crop models are
then evaluated for association with the existing global models, thereby
preventing redundant crop representations and double-counting.
The association process consists of two main stages: candidate
search and association decision. During candidate search, the algo-
rithm identiﬁes the nearest existing crop model Cref in the global
map for each newly generated crop model Cnew by calculating the
Euclidean distance between their centroids. To support an efﬁcient
nearest-neighbor retrieval, we employ a k-d tree to index and manage
the global crop model database. This localized search strategy ensures
scalability and real-time performance as the global map grows.
In the association stage, we determine if a new crop model (Cnew)
matches an existing model (Cref) by calculating their 3D GIoU, a
metric that evaluates spatial alignment across translation, rotation,
and scale. If the GIoU exceeds a speciﬁed threshold, the models are
associated: their point clouds are merged, a new 3D OBB is ﬁtted to the
combined points, and conﬁdence scores are concatenated. The resulting
fused model replaces Cref in the global k-d tree. If no valid match is
found, the newly generated crop model Cnew is inserted into the global
map as a new entry.
Unlike traditional IoU, which is limited to axis-aligned boxes, 3D
GIoUaccuratelyevaluatesarbitrarilyoriented3Dboundingboxesusing
convex hull-based computations, making it ideal for our 3D tracking
task. The robustness of this metric allows our system to reliably asso-
ciate crop detections across consecutive frames, thereby compensating
for false negatives that may occur in any single frame.
To address false positive detections, we ﬁlter fused crop models
based on their accumulated conﬁdence scores from 2D segmentations.
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:46:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

PARK et al.: INCREMENTAL 3D CROP MODEL ASSOCIATION FOR REAL-TIME COUNTING IN DENSE ORCHARDS
3863
Algorithm 1: AssociateCropModel.
Input: A new crop model Cnew, a global crop model database
indexed by KDTree, minimum nuber of observed frames N,
conﬁdence threshold τconf, and GIoU threshold τGIoU.
Output: Updated KDTree with associated crop models.
Cref = KDTree.NearestNeighbor(Cnew)
if GIoU(Cnew, Cref) > τGIoU
// Merge and update if associated
Cfuse ←Initialize()
Cfuse.pcd = {Cref.pcd, Cnew.pcd}
Cfuse.conf = {Cref.conf, Cnew.conf}
Cfuse.obb = FitOrientedBoxUsingPCA(Cfuse.pcd)
KDTree.Remove(Cref)
KDTree.Insert(Cfuse)
if |Cfuse.conf| > N and median(Cfuse.conf) < τconf
KDTree.Remove(Cfuse)
end if
else
// Add if not associated
KDTree.Insert(Cnew)
end if
return KDTree
A model is only considered for removal after it has been tracked for
a minimum number of N = 9 frames to gather sufﬁcient evidence. It
is then ﬁltered out if the median of its accumulated conﬁdence scores
falls below a predeﬁned threshold. This ﬁltering strategy effectively
removes unreliable models and improves counting accuracy over time.
Crop counting is achieved by determining the number of crop models
in the global map. The position and orientation of each crop can
also be directly retrieved from its associated 3D OBB. The complete
association procedure is summarized in Algorithm 1, which details
candidate selection, decision logic, and k-d tree updates used to manage
the global crop map.
D. Real-Time System Implementation
A key advantage of the proposed incremental crop counting frame-
work is its ability to perform on-the-ﬂy estimation as sensors scan the
environment. Achieving this requires the entire pipeline to operate in
real-time. To meet this requirement, the system adopts a lightweight,
parallelized architecture that decouples crop model processing from
state estimation tasks.
The system consists of two primary threads that operate in parallel.
The state estimation thread, executed on a multi-core CPU, estimates
poses for synchronized images and point clouds using FAST-LIVO [2].
These outputs are passed to the crop counting thread for further pro-
cessing.
The crop counting thread handles all crop model-related operations,
including crop detection, model generation, incremental association,
and ﬁltering. It receives tracked images and performs crop instance
segmentation using YOLOv11, which is converted to ONNX format for
efﬁcient GPU inference. This conversion signiﬁcantly reduces memory
consumption and improves inference speed, enabling real-time process-
ing of incoming frames without compromising accuracy. Additionally,
a k-d tree structure is employed to efﬁciently manage and query the
global crop model database during association.
Leveraging this architecture, the system performs real-time crop
counting by processing local scans and incrementally updating the
global crop map. This approach offers a real-time alternative to methods
that rely on full global reconstruction or batch processing, which are
computationally intensive and unsuitable for real-time deployment.
Fig. 5.
Handheld sensor system used for data collection in densely planted
environments. The platform consists of a FLIR Blackﬂy RGB camera (FL3-U3-
1324C-C) with a 4.5 mm ﬁxed focal length lens (Edmund Optics 86900) and a
Livox Avia LiDAR with a built-in IMU (BMI088). This conﬁguration captures
high-resolution images, LiDAR point clouds, and inertial measurements for crop
model construction and association.
IV. EXPERIMENTAL EVALUATION
A. Dataset
We used a custom handheld rig equipped with sensors to capture data
in densely planted, unstructured environments, as shown in Fig. 5. The
platform consisted of a FLIR Blackﬂy RGB camera with an Edmund
Optics 86900 lens (providing 1280×1024 resolution, 84.7◦horizontal
FoV) and a Livox Avia LiDAR with an integrated BMI088 IMU. To
ensure accurate cross-modal alignment, extrinsic calibration between
the camera and LiDAR was performed using an edge-based method [22]
that extracts and aligns edge features from both image and point cloud
domains.
To evaluate our method under challenging and realistic conditions,
we collected a dataset using the described sensor system. The data was
captured in tangerine orchards (speciﬁcally Citrus unshiu and Kanpei)
located in Seogwipo, Jeju, Republic of Korea. These orchards featured
mature trees with dense foliage, and the target crops were in a pre-
harvest state, showing a distinctive orange color and ranging from 5 to
10 cm in diameter and highly variable sensor-to-crop distances (0.2 to
3.0 m).
In these settings, we constructed a dataset1 to evaluate the pro-
posed crop counting system under challenging, real-world conditions.
The dataset includes three representative motion patterns: (i) Revisit
Sequences, where the sensors revisit a previously traversed region;
(ii) Circular Sequences, representing rotational movement around a
tree in conﬁned spaces; and (iii) Straight Sequences, involving linear
motion toward trees. A schematic diagram visualizing these trajectories
is provided with the public dataset. For ground truth, frame-wise
crop counts were manually annotated for each sequence, with details
summarized in Table I. Fig. 6 illustrates the challenging conditions
of the dataset, including uncontrolled illumination, dense foliage, and
irregular vegetative patterns.
B. Evaluation
To evaluate the performance of the proposed method, we compare
it against several representative baselines. For 2D tracking-based ap-
proaches, we include ByteTrack [23] and DeepSORT [7], two widely
adopted multi-object tracking (MOT) algorithms. DeepSORT, in par-
ticular, has demonstrated strong performance in orchard environments,
achieving the lowest error in a recent apple tracking study [6]. To
benchmark against methods tailored explicitly for crop tracking, we
1The dataset is accessible at https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.15893214.
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:46:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

3864
IEEE ROBOTICS AND AUTOMATION LETTERS, VOL. 11, NO. 3, MARCH 2026
TABLE I
DATASET CHARACTERISTICS
TABLE II
CROP COUNTING RESULTS OF OBJECT TRACKING, CROP TRACKING, AND MAP-BASED METHODS. BOLD INDICATES THE BEST PERFORMANCE.
Fig. 6.
Example images of the benchmark dataset. Data were collected from
tangerine orchards in greenhouse and open-ﬁeld settings. These unstructured
environments feature densely planted trees and irregular planting patterns,
leading to frequent occlusions and limited sensor visibility.
also include AgriSORT [8] and CascadeSORT [9]. All methods are
evaluated using their publicly available implementations with default
parameter settings.
To ensure a fair comparison that isolates the association strategy, we
used a single YOLOv11s-seg detector for all baselines and the proposed
method. We trained this model, initialized with COCO pre-trained
weights, on 1,449 custom images (70% train, 10% val, 20% test)
with 13,587 annotated crop masks, kept separate from our benchmark
sequences. The model was trained for 100 epochs with a batch size of
32 using default hyperparameters from the ofﬁcial repository, and the
ﬁnal checkpoint was selected based on YOLOv11’s validation metric
(0.1× mAP@0.5 + 0.9×mAP@0.5:0.95).
As a reproducible 3D reconstruction baseline, we selected the Con-
nected Component Analysis (CCA) method from [14]. To ensure a
fair comparison, we applied CCA to the 3D map generated by our
state estimator (FAST-LIVO [2]). Since the original work does not
specify CCA parameters, we conﬁgured CCA with an octree level of
9 and a minimum cluster size of 5 points, aligning with our 3D OBB
generation requirements. This high-resolution setting preserves small
object structures essential for accurate crop-level segmentation.
To further evaluate our association strategy, we implement two ab-
lation baselines: one replacing GIoU with Euclidean distance between
bounding box centroids, and another using GIoU without conﬁdence-
based ﬁltering. These baselines isolate the individual contributions
of spatial matching and conﬁdence ﬁltering to identity consistency.
The association thresholds (τconf and τGIoU in Algorithm 1) were
tuned using a dedicated validation sequence that is excluded from
the benchmark test set, with ﬁnal values set to τconf = 0.6 and
τGIoU = 0.25. These thresholds were set constant across all bench-
mark sequences. While per-sequence tuning may yield marginal gains,
using a single ﬁxed parameter set highlights the generalizability of our
method.
TableIIsummarizesthecropcountingresultsoftheproposedmethod
compared to the baseline approaches. Overall, the proposed method
achieves crop count estimates closest to the ground truth (GT), with
the lowest RMSE of 8.9 and an error standard deviation of 6.4. These
results demonstrate the accuracy and reliability of the proposed method
in densely planted, unstructured agricultural environments.
Object tracking methods such as ByteTrack [23] and DeepSORT [7]
exhibit signiﬁcantly higher errors, primarily due to their reliance on
2D image-domain information. This reliance becomes a critical lim-
itation in unstructured settings, where dense foliage, high planting
density, frequent occlusions, and irregular sensor motion adversely
affect appearance-based tracking performance. Although crop-speciﬁc
trackers such as CascadeSORT [9] and AgriSORT [8] outperform
general-purpose object trackers, their accuracy remains unsatisfactory,
implying continued vulnerability to visual ambiguity and unstable
associations in densely planted scenes.
Among the map-based methods, CCA [14] exhibits the highest error.
This is primarily due to the accumulated pose drift and reconstruction
errors in unstructured environments, where uneven terrain, dense vege-
tation, and irregular sensor motion introduce substantial challenges.
These factors lead to noisy and distorted crop representations (as
introduced in Fig. 2) that obscure crop boundaries and disrupt reliable
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:46:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

PARK et al.: INCREMENTAL 3D CROP MODEL ASSOCIATION FOR REAL-TIME COUNTING IN DENSE ORCHARDS
3865
Fig. 7.
Frame-wise crop count for each evaluation sequence. The dashed black line represents the ground truth (GT), the solid green line shows the cumulative
crop count estimated by the proposed method, and the red line indicates the absolute frame-wise error. In the Revisit sequences, the vertical blue line marks the
return point where the sensors begin revisiting the previously scanned area. Each subplot includes the RMSE and visualizes the cumulative crop count progression.
While the proposed method closely follows the overall GT trend, counting delays are observed due to sparse LiDAR point density at longer ranges, particularly for
small or distant crops.
Fig. 8.
Crop counting results across various threshold values for τconf (left) and τGIoU (right). Each bar group represents the estimated crop count for a given
sequence and threshold setting, with the ground truth (GT) included for reference. In the left plot τconf is varied while τGIoU is ﬁxed at 0.25; in the right plot,
τGIoU is varied with τconf ﬁxed at 0.6.
segmentation. Consequently, the effectiveness of the map-based ap-
proach is reduced in densely planted settings. In contrast, the proposed
incremental approach overcomes these challenges by estimating crop
models from localized scans, which preserve local structure and enable
more accurate segmentation.
In the ablation studies, the distance baseline tends to overcount crops
due to localization noise, which causes repeated observations of the
same crop to fall outside the distance threshold (0.03 m). Similarly, re-
moving conﬁdence-based ﬁltering degrades performance, with RMSE
rising from 8.9 to 14.5 and standard deviation from 6.4 to 7.5. These
results demonstrate that both GIoU-based association and conﬁdence
ﬁltering are essential for accurate crop model association, as discussed
in Section III-C.
C. Frame-Wise Crop Counting Analysis
To demonstrate the on-the-ﬂy crop counting capability of the pro-
posed method, we evaluate frame-wise crop counts across each eval-
uation sequence. Ground truth (GT) counts are obtained by manually
annotating newly visible crops as they become observable in the image
sequence. Fig. 7 shows the estimated crop counts over time, along with
the corresponding ground truth and absolute error for each sequence.
Overall, the proposed method effectively tracks the general trend of
the GT crop count. However, a noticeable delay in counting is observed
compared to the GT annotations. This delay is primarily attributable to
the modality gap between vision and LiDAR: crops farther from the
sensor may appear in RGB images (and are thus included in the GT)
but lack sufﬁcient LiDAR points for reliable 3D crop modeling. This
arises from the inherently low point density of LiDAR at longer ranges,
particularly for small objects like crops. Consequently, these crops are
typicallycountedonlywhentheplatformmovescloserorobservesthem
across multiple frames, at which point they can be reliably modeled
using both modalities.
Additionally, in the Revisit sequences, both the GT and estimated
crop counts continue to increase gradually even after the initial traversal
of the scene. This behavior is attributed to previously occluded crops
or those outside the sensor’s ﬁeld of view becoming visible along the
return path.
D. Effect of Association Thresholds on Crop Counting
As summarized in Algorithm 1, the proposed crop model association
relies on two key parameters: a threshold on the conﬁdence score
(τconf), and a threshold on the 3D GIoU (τGIoU) between the two
models. To evaluate the inﬂuence of these parameters on system perfor-
mance, Fig. 8 presents the crop counting results under various threshold
settings. The left plot varies τconf while ﬁxing τGIoU = 0.25, and the
right plot varies τGIoU with τconf = 0.6 ﬁxed.
In the left plot, increasing τconf results in a consistent decline in crop
count estimates across all sequences. This trend arises because a larger
conﬁdence score threshold ﬁlters out more potential crops, including
valid detections. Consequently, the system tends to undercount when
τconf is too high (e.g., 0.75), especially in dense scenes where valid
detections may have lower conﬁdence scores.
Conversely, the right plot shows that higher values of τGIoU lead
to a steady increase in crop count estimates. A larger GIoU threshold
makes the system more conservative, requiring more substantial spatial
overlap to associate models. While this reduces false merges, it also
increases the risk of under-association, where repeated observations of
the same crop are not merged, resulting in overcounting.
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:46:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

3866
IEEE ROBOTICS AND AUTOMATION LETTERS, VOL. 11, NO. 3, MARCH 2026
TABLE III
AVERAGE EXECUTION TIME PER FRAME
These results highlight a clear trade-off where a high τconf leads to
undercounting, while a high τGIoU causes overcounting. Our experi-
ments show that moderate thresholds (τconf = 0.6 and τGIoU = 0.25)
achieve a desirable trade-off that minimizes total counting error across
diverse sequences.
E. Runtime Analysis
Toanalyzetheruntimeoftheproposedmethod, wereporttheaverage
execution time of each module within the crop counting system. All
experiments were conducted on a machine equipped with an 8-core
Intel i7-11800H CPU, 16 GB RAM, and an NVIDIA GeForce RTX
3050Ti GPU, using the evaluation dataset described in Section IV-A.
The average runtime for each module is summarized in Table III,
where each value represents the time required to process an image
frame and its corresponding point cloud. Notably, the object detection
runs exclusively on the GPU, while the remaining modules—including
crop model generation, association, and map updating—are processed
on the CPU. The total processing time per frame is 35.30 ms on average,
corresponding to approximately 28.3 frames per second, satisfying real-
time performance. These results demonstrate that the proposed system
is both efﬁcient and practical for deployment in real-world agricultural
environments.
F. Limitations
While the proposed method demonstrates robust performance in
densely planted, unstructured environments under typical conditions,
it has several limitations. First, the system’s reliance on RGB image-
based detection makes it vulnerable to adverse weather and lighting
conditions; performance may degrade in scenarios such as rain, night-
time operation, or intense sunlight, causing lens glare. Second, the
framework focuses on incremental crop model association and does
not incorporate global loop closure within the state estimation pipeline,
which may affect long-term consistency in large-scale deployments.
Third, although the crop models provide reliable geometric features,
they are not leveraged as landmarks for odometry. Incorporating them
into the state estimation—along with their spatial relationships—could
improve localization accuracy. Lastly, occlusion due to camera–LiDAR
viewpoint disparity is not explicitly modeled.
V. CONCLUSION
This paper presents a real-time crop counting method in densely
planted environments, where conventional 2D tracking and global 3D
reconstruction approaches often struggle due to frequent occlusions,
irregular crop arrangements, and limited sensor visibility. The proposed
method constructs robust 3D crop models by combining locally ﬁltered
LiDAR scans with 2D image segmentations to generate 3D Oriented
Bounding Boxes. An incremental association strategy using 3D GIoU
for spatial matching and conﬁdence-based ﬁltering for validation is
introduced to maintain crop identity across frames while avoiding
double-counting. This approach enables reliable crop tracking and
counting in real-time. Experimental results on a ﬁeld-collected dataset
demonstrate that the proposed method achieves accurate and efﬁcient
crop counting under challenging agricultural conditions.
REFERENCES
[1] J. L. Schönberger and J.-M. Frahm, “Structure-from-motion revisited,” in
Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit., 2016, pp. 4104–4113.
[2] C. Zheng, Q. Zhu, W. Xu, X. Liu, Q. Guo, and F. Zhang, “FAST-
LIVO: Fast and tightly-coupled sparse-direct LiDAR-inertial-visual
odometry,” in Proc. IEEE/RSJ Int. Conf. Intell. Robots Syst., 2022,
pp. 4003–4009.
[3] J. Das et al., “Devices, systems, and methods for automated monitoring
enabling precision agriculture,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Automat. Sci.
Eng., 2015, pp. 462–469.
[4] M. Halstead, C. McCool, S. Denman, T. Perez, and C. Fookes,
“Fruit quantity and ripeness estimation using a robotic vision sys-
tem,” IEEE Robot. Automat. Lett., vol. 3, no. 4, pp. 2995–3002,
2018.
[5] C. Smitt, M. Halstead, T. Zaenker, M. Bennewitz, and C. McCool,
“PATHoBot: A robot for glasshouse crop phenotyping and intervention,”
in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Robot. Automat., 2021, pp. 2324–2330.
[6] J. Villacrés, M. Viscaino, J. Delpiano, S. Vougioukas, and F. A. Cheein,
“Apple orchard production estimation using deep learning strategies:
A comparison of tracking-by-detection algorithms,” Comput. Electron.
Agriculture, vol. vol. 204, 2023, Art. no. 107513.
[7] N. Wojke, A. Bewley, and D. Paulus, “Simple online and realtime tracking
with a deep association metric,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Image Process.,
2017, pp. 3645–3649.
[8] L. Saraceni, I. M. Motoi, D. Nardi, and T. A. Ciarfuglia, “AgriSORT: A
simple online real-time tracking-by-detection framework for robotics in
precision agriculture,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Robot. Automat., 2024, pp.
2675–2682.
[9] L. He, F. Wu, X. Du, and G. Zhang, “Cascade-SORT: A robust fruit
counting approach using multiple features cascade matching,” Comput.
Electron. Agriculture, vol. 200, 2022, Art. no. 107223.
[10] S. Tu, Y. Huang, Q. Huang, H. Liu, Y. Cai, and H. Lei, “Estimation of
passion fruit yield based on YOLOv8n + OC-SORT + CRCM algorithm,”
Comput. Electron. Agriculture, vol. 229, 2025, Art. no. 109727.
[11] X. Liu et al., “Robust fruit counting: Combining deep learning, tracking,
and structure from motion,” in Proc. IEEE/RSJ Int. Conf. Intell. Robots
Syst., 2018, pp. 1045–1052.
[12] T. T. Santos, L. L. De Souza, A. A. dos Santos, and S. Avila, “Grape
detection, segmentation, and tracking using deep neural networks and
three-dimensional association,” Comput. Electron. Agriculture, vol. 170,
2020, Art. no. 105247.
[13] X. Liu et al., “Monocular camera based fruit counting and mapping with
semantic data association,” IEEE Robot. Automat. Lett., vol. 4, no. 3,
pp. 2296–2303, Jul. 2019.
[14] W. Dong, P. Roy, and V. Isler, “Semantic mapping for orchard environ-
ments by merging two-sides reconstructions of tree rows,” J. Field Robot.,
vol. 37, no. 1, pp. 97–121, 2020.
[15] D. Girardeau-Montaut, M. Roux, R. Marc, and G. Thibault, “Change
detection on points cloud data acquired with a ground laser scanner,”
Int. Arch. Photogrammetry, Remote Sens. Spatial Inf. Sci., vol. 36, no.
3, pp. 30–35, 2005.
[16] D. Fusaro, F. Magistri, J. Behley, A. Pretto, and C. Stachniss,
“Horticultural temporal fruit monitoring via 3D instance segmentation
and re-identiﬁcation using point clouds,” 2024, arXiv:2411.07799.
[17] R. Marcuzzi, L. Nunes, L. Wiesmann, J. Behley, and C. Stachniss,
“Mask-based panoptic LiDAR segmentation for autonomous driving,”
IEEE Robot. Automat. Lett., vol. 8, no. 2, pp. 1141–1148, Feb. 2023.
[18] L. Meyer, A.-T. Ardelean, T. Weyrich, and M. Stamminger, “Fruit-
NeRF++: A generalized multi-fruit counting method utilizing contrastive
learning and neural radiance ﬁelds,” in Proc. IEEE/RSJ Int. Conf. Intell.
Robots Syst., 2025, pp. 1717–1724.
[19] J. Yin et al., “IS-Fusion: Instance-scene collaborative fusion for multi-
modal 3D object detection,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern
Recognit., 2024, pp. 14905–14915.
[20] G. Jocher and J. Qiu, “Ultralytics YOLO11,” 2024. [Online]. Available:
https://github.com/ultralytics/ultralytics
[21] R. B. Rusu and S. Cousins, “3D is here: Point cloud library (PCL),” in
Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Robot. Automat., 2011, pp. 1–4.
[22] C. Yuan, X. Liu, X. Hong, and F. Zhang, “Pixel-level extrinsic self
calibration of high resolution LiDAR and camera in targetless environ-
ments,” IEEE Robot. Automat. Lett., vol. 6, no. 4, pp. 7517–7524, Oct.
2021.
[23] Y. Zhang et al., “ByteTrack: Multi-object tracking by associating every
detection box,” in Proc. Eur. Conf. Comput. Vis., 2022, pp. 1–21.
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:46:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
