IAES International Journal of Artificial Intelligence (IJ-AI) 
Vol. 7, No. 3, September 2018, pp. 111~118 
ISSN: 2252-8938, DOI: 10.11591/ijai.v7.i3.pp111-118 
     111 
 
 
Journal homepage: http://iaescore.com/journals/index.php/IJAI 
Challenging İssues in Automated Oil Palm Fruit Grading 
 
 
Gaurang S Patkar1, Anjaneyulu G.S.G.N2, Chandra Mouli P.V.S.S.R3 
1,3School of Computer Science and Enginering, VIT University, Vellore, India 
2School of Advanced Scinece, VIT University, Vellore, India 
 
 
Article Info 
 
ABSTRACT 
Article history: 
Received Mar 20, 2018 
Revised May 8, 2018 
Accepted May 19, 2018 
 
 
Late advancement in Agriculture segment utilizing Image preparing and 
fuzzy logic methods has empowered ranchers to expand the yield of harvest 
and served the nourishment needs of the whole people. Look into in 
horticulture is pointed towards increment in the profitability, quality and 
lessening the likelihood of blunder presented by people. The biggest oil palm 
creation is in Malaysia and Indonesia and they send out palm oil to different 
nations on the planet. The most outrageous enthusiasm for palm oil is in 
India. This came to fruition India into Palm Oil advancement and era in 
various states. With a specific end goal to expand the efficiency of palm oil 
organic products, palm oil industry and in addition analysts utilizes different 
machine-vision systems to review the natural products. Tragically, the 
information caught and prepared is confronted with restricted learning and 
accuracy. There are a few difficulties required with the outline and usage of 
palm oil organic product reviewing. This paper introduces an outline of 
different Image handling and fuzzy logic methods, distinguishes and 
addresses testing issues in computerized palm natural product evaluating. 
Keyword: 
Elaeis guineensis 
Fresh fruit bunches 
Fuzzy logic 
Mesocarp 
Neural network 
Copyright © 2018 Institute of Advanced Engineering and Science.  
All rights reserved. 
Corresponding Author: 
Gaurang S Patkar,  
School of Computer Science and Engineering, 
VIT University, Vellore,  
Tamil Nadu, India 
Email: gaurangpatkar83@gmail.com 
 
 
1. 
INTRODUCTION 
Progressed get ready of palm oil natural product bunches into agreeable oil using distinctive Image 
Processing strategies is sharpened in a couple endeavors. The ordinary methodologies are similarly open, 
little scale mechanical units, medium and endless scale palm oil industrial facilities. It is agreed that ordinary 
systems for isolating palm oil were grim and inefficient for making oil accessible to be obtained. Henceforth 
present enthusiasm for little scale palm oil plants is moving from clear stay singular unit operational 
machines to a more joined and complex PC composed system which is definitely not hard to work and keep 
up. This assistants in addition in effectiveness and decreases the human effort which may achieve 
presentation of screw up. This papers reveiws the examination discoveries of different creators and finds the 
testing issues which are missed by specialists in mechanized palm natural product evaluating. 
India has been represented to have the greatest region under oil seed improvement in the World yet 
the disjointedness is that the private creation is not adequate to meet the irrelevant agreeable oil necessities of 
the general population. The factors responsible for this consolidate poor land conditions and the creating 
population. The enthusiasm for palm oil has been creating. There has in like manner been discernible upward 
example in the per capital use of consumable oil among the Indian population. A lion's share of the Indian 
people encounters calorie deficiency. Inferable from the cost of edible oil, its usage is maintained a strategic 
distance from the ordinary menu of the fiscally blocked and tried populace. India has been acquiring 
boundless measures of oils from late nineteenth century as creation has stagnated or declined in the midst of 
the latest two decades. This is by virtue of the advancement of private oil creation doesn't proportionate with 

      
  
 
       ISSN: 2252-8938 
IJ-AI  Vol. 7, No. 3, September 2018 :  111 – 118 
112
relating populace improvement. Considering the future demands starting now highlighted a whole deal 
philosophy for a thorough progression of creation and taking care of advances ought to be produced to make 
India sure about consumable oils supply as by virtue of oats and so on. It has been represented that the oil 
seeds creation in India is significantly helpless against the whims of nature particularly the rainstorm. The 
moving case of precipitation which is outside the capacity to control of the agriculturists impacts the era and 
gainfulness of oil items unquestionably. Typical low effectiveness of oil seeds created in India could be taken 
after fundamentally to the dependence on the rainstorm. The oilseeds in India, which are yearly or periodic 
yields, are all the more unprotected to precipitation. 
The natural products are normally round to ovoid or lengthened and protruding at the top. It is 
around two to five cm long and weight may change from 3 to 30 gram. As appeared in Figure 1, fuit 
comprises of an external thin skin (exocarp), oil bearing mash (mesocarp) and a shell endocarp. The shell 
together with portion frames the seed. The piece comprise of layers of hard oil endosperm, which is grayish 
white in shading encompassed by a dull cocoa skin secured with a system of filaments. Palm oil is extricated 
from the mesocarp. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Structure of palm oil fruit 
 
 
Kernel likewise yields oil known as kernel oil; however the amount is just around 1/4 of that 
acquired from mesocarp. Oil palm bundle comprise of external and inward natural products. The inward 
natural products are less pigmented, fairly level, undeveloped and non-oil bearing. Bundle weight different 
from a couple to 100 kilograms. Well set clusters convey 1000 to 3000 organic products. Aging is as a rule 
from tip downwards. A bundle takes around five to six months for aging. Oil development in the piece and 
mesocarp happens towards the end of a time of development amid which shell solidifies and afterward fetus 
gets to be noticeable. Three oil palm assortments have been distinguished in light of the distinction in organic 
product structure. They are Dura, Tenera and Pisifera. Dura has a thick shell (normally two to eight mm) with 
low to medium mesocarp content. This assortment is not monetarily developed at this point. Figure 2 
demonstrates all the three assortments. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Three varieties of palm oil fruit 
 
 
Tenera assortment is a crossover got by intersection Dura (female) and pisifera (male). It has a thin 
shell for the most part and a medium to huge mesocarp substance. There is unmistakable fiber ring in the 
mesocarp. This is the generally developed sort everywhere throughout the world because of the high 

IJ-AI  
ISSN: 2252-8938 
 
 
Challenging İssues in Automated Oil Palm Fruit Grading (Gaurang S Patkar) 
113
mesocarp substance and resultant oil yield. Pisifera assortment is described by a shell-less natural product pea 
like piece inside. Regularly the piece is likewise missing. Since a large number of the organic products don't 
have developing life, seed proliferation is practically unimaginable. Palm oil fruit changes shading as it 
achieves legitimate collecting period. There are add up to four phases unripe, underripe, ready and overripe. 
These four phases are appeared in Figure 3. It is seen that the shade of the organic product changes from base 
to pinnacle. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3. Four different stages of palm oil fruit as it ripens 
 
 
2. 
IMAGE PROCESSING ND FUZZY LOGICMETHODS 
T Z. May, M. H. Amaran [1] developed model of mechanized reviewing framework for oil palm 
organic product is created utilizing the RGB color model and fuzzy logic. The motivation behind this 
evaluating framework is to recognize the three distinct classes of oil palm natural product which are 
underripe, ready and overripe. This extend gives a decent strategy to institutionalize the oil palm organic 
product reviewing framework over a huge zone and the exploration will keep on normalizing the framework 
to have the capacity to use under various wellspring of lighting.  
Meftah Salem M. Alfatni, [2] in their examination created robotized reviewing framework for oil 
palm packs utilizing RGB color model. This evaluating framework is produced to recognize three classes of 
palm organic products bunch. The development shading record depended on various shading intensity. The 
evaluating framework utilizes Computer and camera to dissect and translate images. The Computer program 
created and utilized mean shading force to separate between various shading and readiness of natural product.  
Nursuriati Jamil, Azlinah Mohamed, Syazwani Abdullah [3] In this paper, external surface shades of 
palm oil crisp natural product bundles are broke down to consequently review the organic products into over 
ready, ready and unripe. They looked at two strategies for shading reviewing: 1) utilizing RGB computerized 
numbers and 2) colorsc classification prepared utilizing a managed learning Hebb method and evaluated 
utilizing fuzzy logic. 
W.I. Wan Ismail, M.Z. Bardaie, and A.M. Abdul Hamid [4] The trial was led to decide the Hue 
optical properties of the three classifications of Fresh Fruit Bunches in particular unripe, underripe and 
ripe.Nikon Coolpix 4500 advanced camera with tele-converter zooming and the Keyence vision framework 
were utilized to catch the pictures in genuine oil palm ranch. The relationship of the oil content for mesocarp 
oil palm organic products with the advanced estimation of Hue was dissected.  
A.Nureize, J. Watada [5], the destinations of this paper is to fabricate a fuzzy multicriteria 
assessment model that describes the criteria of oil palm organic products to choose the fuzzy weights of these 
criteria in light of a fuzzy regression display.  
Z Abdullah, L.C Guan and B.M.N Mohd Azemi [6] The quality element of a standard Elgaeis 
guineensis oil palm was evaluated utilizing a PC vision demonstrate as a part of request to assess and grade 
the oil palm bunches by a robotized creation framework. The element considered was shading, and the 
review criteria depended on the Palm Oil Research Institute of Malaysia. The relationship between oil 
substance and shading was investigated in HSI (Hue, Saturation and Intensity) space for readiness assurance.  
Manza R.R., Gaikwad B.P. and Manza G.R. [7] some researchers used different edge detection 
operators and proved that they can be used to categorize the mango fruits to evaluate the quality and grade. 
Same concept can be used in oil palm fruit grading. The Simulink based adjustable structure is intended for 
fast reenactment, execution, and check of video preparing frameworks. In this work the similar examination 
of different mangoes video edge identification techniques resemble Sobel, Prewitt and Canny is exhibited. 
Figure 4 gives the overview of different researchers.  

      
  
 
       ISSN: 2252-8938 
IJ-AI  Vol. 7, No. 3, September 2018 :  111 – 118 
114
 
 
Figure 4. Vertical block list showing researchers and their findings 
 
 
Norasyikin Fadilah, Junita Mohamad-Saleh [8] this paper exhibits the use of shading vision for 
mechanized readiness characterization of oil palm Fresh Fruit Bunches. Pictures of oil palm Fresh Fruit 
Bunches were gathered and broke down utilizing advanced picture preparing strategies. Then the shading 
elements were removed from those pictures and utilized as the contributions for Artificial Neural Network 
learning. The execution of the ANN for readiness characterization of oil palm FFB was examined utilizing 
two strategies: preparing ANN with full elements and preparing ANN with decreased elements in light of the 
Principal Component Analysis information lessening strategy. Results demonstrated that contrasted and 
utilizing full components as a part of ANN, utilizing the ANN prepared with lessened elements can enhance 
the characterization accuracy. The created readiness classifier can go about as a sensor in deciding the right 
oil palm Fresh Fruit Bunches readiness classification. 
Ahmed Jaffar, Roseleena Jaafar, Nursuriati Jamil [9] this paper introduces a PC helped 
photogrammetric approach which corresponds the shade of the palm oil fruits to their readiness and in the 
end deals with them physically.The framework and the approach planned in this work have built up a finish 
robotization reviewing arrangement of oil palm FFB and along these lines radically expanded the reviewing 
efficiency. 
Fatma Susilawati Mohamad, Azizah Abdul Manaf and Suriayati Chuprat, [10] this paper uses the 
utilization of Distance Measurements for histogram based oil palm readiness identification. In this study, 
HSV color model is investigated its capability of colors.Four Distance Measurements are chosen and looked 
at in this study. Sunilkumar and D. S. Sparjan Babu [11] Stated The present study was embraced to assess 
diverse development phases of oil palm fruits as far as shading and oil content, set up their bury relationship 
and to create expectation models in light of shading qualities so that non dangerous readiness assessment 
could be accomplished. Correlation of RGB and L*a*b shading model is done.The L*a*b* based model 
would be perfect for fusing in contraptions like colorimeters with the end goal of shading based reviewing of 
FFB and expectation of oil substance. This study explores the connection between oil content in the oil palm 
fruit against the shade of the oil palm organic product. The finding of this study is helpful for deciding 
readiness of oil palm for gathering and at the last will use in building up the business shading meter to gauge 
organic product readiness utilizing non-contact estimation procedure. [12].  
Choong et al. [13] the oil substance of the tissue of mesocarp has coordinate association with 
shading groups red, green and blue. By running escalated tests, it was observed that oil content related with 
the red shading band, with a relapse estimation of 0.86. The finding of this study might be valuable for 
deciding the readiness of oil palm for collecting and for the utilization in the operation and control of nonstop 
sterilizer in palm oil process. However, a later study by Ghazali et al. [14] discovered that the red 
components for unripe and underripe categories were almost the same. The summary of research finding is 
shown in Figure 5. The test comes about demonstrate that [15] Fuzzy Moving K-implies has characterized 
the remote detecting picture more precisely than other three calculations. Rather than utilizing single 
component bunching calculation, [16] this paper introduces different element grouping calculation with three 
elements for every pixel, for example, pixel power, separate from the focal point of the spot and middle of 
encompassing pixels. 

IJ-AI  
ISSN: 2252-8938 
 
 
Challenging İssues in Automated Oil Palm Fruit Grading (Gaurang S Patkar) 
115
 
 
Figure 5. Vertical block list showing researchers and their findings 
 
 
3. 
CHALLENGING ISSUES IN PALM FRUIT GRADING 
After starting examination of the writing review it is found that there are numerous issues which 
must be talked about and sorted to get the best results. There are add up to seven testing issues which were 
not considered in the past research. There are situations where the organic product is harmed by nuisance in 
light of which the natural product shading may change and prompts wrong reviewing of organic product. 
There are distinctive variables which need to consider when the way toward evaluating is computerized. A 
portion of the key components which is found and recognized are appeared in Figure 6. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6. Different parameters to be considered in palm oil fruit grading 
 
 
1. Color model: Some of the researchers have proved that RGB color model or HIS color model is the best 
for grading oil palm fruit. But after literature survey it is found that the color model to be used depends on 
the environmental condition which is unpredictable. Also the color of the fruit is different and varies from 
region to region so there is a need for investigation and detailed study. The purpose of a color model is to 
facilitate the specification of colors in some standard generally acceptable way.  
2. Camera specification: When the image is captured from the tree for real time processing, the camera 
resolutions and pixel data also plays major role in deciding the complexity of algorithm to be designed. 
3. Camera location: The location of camera also plays very important role in decision making because the 
color of fruit is not uniform from base to apex. The location, orientation and mode of operation of each 
camera need to be carefully chosen to ensure well-covered scene. 

      
  
 
       ISSN: 2252-8938 
IJ-AI  Vol. 7, No. 3, September 2018 :  111 – 118 
116
4. Time complexity of algorithm: In the previous research there is no time complexity given for the 
proposed algorithm. Not even a single algorithm says that its time complexity is linear or quadratic. 
5. Illumination: Most of the previous research is carried out in controlled environment. The algorithm 
should work in all the environmental conditions, irrespective of cloudy or sunny weather. 
6. Species type: Till now no research has been done on categorizing the palm oil fruits into their three 
species dura, tenera or pisifera. 
7. Detecting diseases/pest: Detecting the type of disease/pest the oil palm fruit affected with is also very 
important for farmers to take precautions against the pest. Figure 7 shows different diseases and pest. It is 
found after literature survey that automated detection of disease and pest has not been done by 
researchers. 
8. Exocarp color: Exocarp color varies from region to region. Through study is required to find out the 
different color in different regions. We cannot generalize the mesocarp color. Figure 8 shows the 
relationship between color and category of fruit.  
9. Fruit category: Some researchers have taken only three categories namely Unripe, Ripe and Overripe. But 
the truth is there are total four categories Underripe, Unripe, Ripe and Overripe.  
10. Percentage of FFA: Finding the percentage of free Fatty Acid (FFA) content from the fruit is also very 
important in automated grading. More the FFA content less healthy will be the oil. The relationship 
between fruit category and FFA content is shown in Figure 9.  
11. Number of Detached fruits: This is the main element which is utilized as a part of manual evaluating. So 
there is some connection between number of natural products tumbled from trees to the reviewing. Till 
now this element has not contemplated. This technique has been rehearsed till today since it is possible if 
the tree is tall. 
It can be observed from Figure 10 that the number of detached fruitlets has direct relationship with 
the FFB category. The data is compiled from statistical data, Godrej Agrovet Pvt. Ltd.- Goa. The manual 
harvesting works with the number of detached fruits fallen down on the ground from the tree. Since the trees 
are very tall, and farmers cannot climb the trees because of the thorns, this is the only feasible method for 
them to find out the correct harvest time of oil palm fruits. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 7. Diseases and pests in oil palm fruit 
 
 
 
Figure 8. Correlation between color and category 
 
 
Figure 9. Relation between Fruit Category and FFA 
content 
 
Figure 10. Relation Detached Fruit and Fruit 
Category 
 
 
 
 
 
 

IJ-AI  
ISSN: 2252-8938 
 
 
Challenging İssues in Automated Oil Palm Fruit Grading (Gaurang S Patkar) 
117
4. 
CONCLUSION 
In this paper we introduced the diagram of various Image Processing and fuzzy logic methods 
utilized for Palm oil natural product evaluating and talked about the difficulties that ought to be met to get 
exact and substantial results. Despite the fact that a few scientists say that the calculation and strategies 
proposed by them is great and flawless yet at the same time there is extension for legitimate procedure and 
change. Till now there was no model indicated which can be utilized as plan for execution. Since shade of 
organic product changes from locale to district, same technique can't be received to every one of the cases. 
So there is a requirement for summed up model utilizing displaying strategies. Alongside shading there are 
more components which are expressed before can be utilized to build the exactness and precision while 
evaluating oil palm natural products. Presently a day's PC vision framework is utilized wherever to decrease 
the blunder and increment the proficiency and profitability, it is a need that Palm oil extraction factories 
ought to be received. In this manner image processing and fuzzy logic methods are intense instruments which 
will help in planning powerful machine-vision framework for farming space if the above issues are tended to 
effectively. 
 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
We would like to thank Godrej Agrovet Pvt.Ltd. Goa for helping us in data collection and required 
information. For their continued support, guidance, and incredible patience, I would like to thank Dr. G. 
S.G.N Anjaneyulu and Dr. Chandra Mouli P.V. S. S. R. Without their enthusiasm and generosity, this 
research would not have been successful. I would also like to send a special thanks to my parents and my 
colleagues for their encouragement and support throughout my entire academic career. 
 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] 
Z. May, M. H. Amaran, et al., “Automated Oil Palm Fruit Grading System using Artificial Intelligence”, 
International Journal of Video & Image Processing and Network Security IJVIPNS-IJENS Volume.11 no. 03. 
[2] 
Meftah Salem M. Alfatni, et al., “Oil Palm Fruit Bunch Grading System Using Red, Green, and Blue Digital 
Number”, University Putra Malaysia, Journal of Applied Sciences, Vol. 8, pp. 1444-1452, 2008. 
[3] 
Nursuriati Jamil, Azlinah Mohamed, Syazwani Abdullah, et al., “Automated Grading of Palm Oil Fresh Bunches 
(FFB) using Neuro -Fuzzy Technique”, Universiti Teknologi MARA, International Conference of Soft Computing 
and Pattern Recognition, 2009. 
[4] 
W.I. Wan Ismail, M.Z. Bardaie, and A.M. Abdul Hamid, et al., “Optical properties for mechanical harvesting of oil 
palm FFB”, Journal of Oil Palm Research, Volume. 12, no. 2, pp. 38-45, Dec 2000 
[5] 
A. Nureize, J. Watada, et al., “Multi-criteria Fuzzy Regression Model for Evaluating Oil Palm Grading”, Graduate 
School of Information, Production and System, Waseda University, 2-7 Hibikino, Wakamatsu, Kitakyushu, 808-
0135 Japan, 2009. 
[6] 
M.Z Abdullah, L.C Guan and B.M.N Mohd Azemi, et al., “Stepwise Discriminant Analysis For Colour Grading of 
Oil Palm Using Machine Vision System”, University Science Malaysia, Institute of Chemical Engineers, Trans 
ICheme, Vol. 79, Part C, 2001. 
[7] 
 Manza R.R., Gaikwad B.P. and Manza G.R. et al., (2012) “Use of Edge Detection Operators for Agriculture Video 
Scene Feature Extraction from Mango Fruits”, Advances in Computational Research, ISSN: 0975 -3273 & E-ISSN: 
0975-9085, Volume 4, Issue 1, pp.-50-53. 
[8] 
Norasyikin Fadilah, Junita Mohamad -Saleh, Zaini Abdul Halim, Haidi Ibrahim and Syed Salim Syed Ali, et al., 
“Intelligent Color Vision System for Ripeness Classification of Oil Palm Fresh Fruit Bunch”, Sensors 2012, 12, 
14179-14195; doi:10.3390/s121014179, ISSN 1424-8220. 
[9] 
Ahmed Jaffar, Roseleena Jaafar, Nursuriati Jamil, Cheng Yee Low and Bulan Abdullah, et al., “ Photogrammetric 
Grading of Oil Palm Fresh Fruit Bunches”, International Journal of Mechanical & Mechatronics Engineering 
IJMME-IJENS Vol: 09 No:10 
[10] Fatma Susilawati Mohamad, Azizah Abdul Manaf and Suriayati Chuprat, et al., “Exploiting Distance Measurement 
for Ripeness Identification”, IJCSI International Journal of Computer Science Issues,Vol.9, Issue 3, No 3,pp 107-
108, May 2012. 
[11] K. Sunilkumar and D. S. Sparjan Babu, et al., “Surface color based prediction of oil content in oil palm (Elaeis 
guineensis Jacq.) Fresh fruit bunch”, African Journal of Agricultural Research, Vol. 8(6), pp. 564-569, 25 
February, 2013. 
[12]  Hudzari, R.; Ishak, W.W.; Noorman M., et al.,”Parameter acceptance of software development for oil palm fruit 
maturity prediction”, Journal of Software Engineering, 2010, 4, 244–256. 
[13] Choong, T.; Abbas, S.; Shariff, A.; Halim, R.; S., M.H.; Yunus, R.; Ali, S.; ahmadun, F.R. et al., “Digital image 
processing of palm oil fruits”, International Journal of Food Engineering, 2006, 2, 1–4. 
[14] Ghazali, K.H.; Samad, R.; Arshad, N.W.; Karim, R.A. et al., “Image Processing Analysis of Oil Palm Fruits for 
Automatic Grading”, International Conference on Instrumentation, Control & Automation, Bandung, Indonesia, 20 
October 2009.  

      
  
 
       ISSN: 2252-8938 
IJ-AI  Vol. 7, No. 3, September 2018 :  111 – 118 
118
[15] B. Saichandana, K. Srinivas, R.Kiran Kumar, “Clustering Algorithm combined with Hill Climbing for 
Classification of Remote Sensing Images”, International Journal of Electrical and Computer Engineering (IJECE), 
vol 4,  
No. 6, pp 923-930.  
[16] J. Harikiran, P.V. Lakshmi, R. Kiran Kuma,” Multiple Feature Fuzzy c-means Clustering Algorithm for 
Segmentation of Microarray Images “, International Journal of Electrical and Computer Engineering (IJECE), vol 
5, No. 5, pp 1045-1053. 
 
 
BIOGRAPHIES OF AUTHORS 
 
Gaurang S Patkar is currently pursuing PhD in Computer Science and Engineering at VIT 
University, Vellore. He received his B.E from Goa University in 2005 and M.Tech (CSE) from 
Visveshvaraya Technological University. His areas of interest include Image Processing, Fuzzy 
logic and Rough sets. 
 
 
Dr. G.S.G.N.Anjaneyulu received B.Sc degree in computer science with Mathematics, from 
Andhra University, Vishakhapatnam in 1996, M.Sc in Mathematics in 1998, and M.phil in the 
‘Theory of semirings’ in 2004 and in 2008, he received his Ph.D in ‘Digital Signatures Using 
Semiring Structures’ from S.V.University, Tirupati, India. He has Eighteen years of teaching 
experience in graduate, post graduate and Engineering Mathematics. He published twenty nine 
research papers in national and international journals. He also attended national and international 
conferences for presenting research papers. He is currently working as professor, Division of 
Applied Algebra of SAS, VIT University, vellore, Tamilnadu, India. His current research interest 
includes ‘Image Processing, Cryptography, Network security, Algebra and Graph Theory’.  
 
 
 
Dr. P.V.S.S.R. Chandra Mouli is Professor, School of Computing Science and Engineering 
(SCSE) VIT University, Tamil Nadu, India. He obtained his Ph.D. degree from National Institute 
of Technology (NIT) Trichy in the area of Digital Image Processing. His research interests 
include Digital Image Processing, Computer Vision, Pattern Recognition, Computational 
Intelligence, Information Retrieval and Wireless Ad hoc Networks. He executed two research 
projects sponsored by the Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO), Ministry 
of Defence, Govt. of India during 2002-2004 and 2006-2008. He, as a principal investigator has 
bagged a third DRDO research project into his credit. He is a member of various professional 
bodies like IEEE, ISTE, besides acting as a reviewer and editorial board member for various 
reputed international journals and conferences.  
 
