Citation: Peng, K.; Ma, W.; Lu, J.;
Tian, Z.; Yang, Z. Application of
Machine Vision Technology in Citrus
Production. Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 9334.
https://doi.org/10.3390/
app13169334
Academic Editor: José Miguel
Molina Martínez
Received: 20 July 2023
Revised: 9 August 2023
Accepted: 14 August 2023
Published: 17 August 2023
Copyright:
© 2023 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed
under
the
terms
and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
applied  
sciences
Review
Application of Machine Vision Technology in Citrus Production
Kaiqian Peng 1,2, Wei Ma 3,*, Jinzhu Lu 1,2,*
, Zhiwei Tian 3 and Zhiming Yang 1,2
1
Modern Agricultural Equipment Research Institute, Xihua University, Chengdu 610039, China;
212021085500041@stu.xhu.edu.cn (K.P.); yangzhiming@stu.xhu.edu.cn (Z.Y.)
2
School of Mechanical Engineering, Xihua University, Chengdu 610039, China
3
Institute of Urban Agriculture, Chinese Academy of Agriculture Sciences, Chengdu 610213, China;
tianzhiwei@caas.cn
*
Correspondence: mawei03@caas.cn (W.M.); lujinzhu@mail.xhu.edu.cn (J.L.)
Abstract: The construction of standardized citrus orchards is the main trend in the future develop-
ment of modern agriculture worldwide. As the most widely used and mature technology in the
agricultural ﬁeld, machine vision has greatly promoted the industrial development model of the
citrus industry. This paper summarizes the application of machine vision technology including
citrus pest and disease detection, harvesting identiﬁcation and localization, and fruit grading. We
compare the advantages and disadvantages of relevant research, and analyze the existing problems
and prospects for future research. Due to the complex and changeable in-ﬁeld environment, robots
may experience unpredictable interference in the recognition process, which leads to errors in target
fruit localization. The lack of datasets also affects the accuracy and stability of the algorithm. While
expanding the dataset, it is necessary to conduct further research on the algorithm. In addition, the
existing research focuses on indoor monitoring methods, which are not practical for the changeable
outdoors environment. Therefore, realizing the diversity of sample datasets, designing agricultural
robots suitable for complex environments, developing high-quality image processing hardware and
intelligent parallel algorithms, and increasing dynamic monitoring methods are the future research
directions. Although machine vision has certain limitations, it is still a technology with strong
potential for development.
Keywords: citrus production; machine vision; citrus disease; citrus harvesting
1. Introduction
Citrus is the fruit with the highest yield and the most extensive planting area in the
world, and is one of the most important cash crops in the world. It is planted in tropical and
subtropical regions. It is rich in vitamin C, which can meet people’s daily needs and help
the body’s immune system [1]. Global citrus production has continued to grow steadily
in recent years, with total production from 2010 to 2023 exceeding 130 million tons, a
growth rate of about 125 percent. Every link of citrus production is crucial and directly or
indirectly affects the yield of citrus. With the development of agricultural modernization,
the efﬁciency and accuracy of citrus production are restricted by the shortage of experts,
time, and effort.
In recent years, machine vision has been applied to the ﬁeld of agricultural machinery
including agricultural picking robots, crop seed and fruit sorting, crop growth state detec-
tion, and detection of disease, insect, pests, and weeds. Machine vision technology plays an
important role in agricultural automatic production. Machine vision is based on computer
vision, which is composed of a hardware system and software system. The hardware part
includes light source equipment, image processing card, and auxiliary actuator, etc. The
software part mainly refers to image processing visual software and image processing
methods. The camera is used to shoot the target under the appropriate environment. After
obtaining the image information, the visual software is used to process the acquired image,
Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 9334. https://doi.org/10.3390/app13169334
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/applsci

Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 9334
2 of 16
and then the signal is transmitted through the corresponding control device to make the
executive device start to work.
The application of machine vision technology in the production process of citrus can
effectively improve production efﬁciency, such as disease and pest detection, harvesting
identiﬁcation and positioning, fruit grading, and other links. Machine vision technology
has good application prospects, and, driven by this technology, many aspects of citrus pro-
duction can be further developed. This article compares the advantages and disadvantages
of relevant research through the application of machine vision technology in citrus disease
and pest detection, picking recognition and positioning, and fruit grading. It analyzes
the current problems and prospects for future research, which can effectively improve the
accuracy and efﬁciency of various stages of citrus production and provide certain reference
value for the development direction of machine vision technology in agriculture.
2. Pest and Disease Detection
The quality of citrus is not only affected by climate, environment, and planting condi-
tions, but is also threatened by diseases and pests [2]. The quantity of citrus is huge, and
there are many types of diseases and pests that are highly harmful. The diseased plants
can quickly spread to other healthy plants, leading to a signiﬁcant reduction in, or even
death of, citrus trees. Citrus diseases and pests affect the development of the agricultural
economy and are one of the main reasons for the reduction in citrus crop yield. Therefore,
it is very important to help fruit farmers effectively and quickly judge and prevent citrus
diseases before harvesting, and to control citrus diseases and reduce losses in a timely
manner. At present, the main diseases commonly found in citrus include huanglongbing,
canker, anthrax, sooty mold, fatty spot macular, scab, foot rot, resin disease, and so on [3],
and the main insect pests include red spider, psyllid, stink bug, scale insect, leaf miner,
long-horned beetle, and so on [4]. The disease occurs mainly in leaves and fruits, so we
have a comprehensive discussion of the two parts.
2.1. Pest and Disease Identiﬁcation Based on RGB Image
2.1.1. Traditional Machine Learning Disease Recognition
The traditional machine learning method ﬁrst uses mobile devices such as mobile
phones or cameras to capture RGB images of plant diseases and complete the collection of
datasets. Then the preprocessing technology is used to remove the complex background of
the image or segment unnecessary regions to highlight the disease area. Then, artiﬁcially
designed image features are used to extract relevant information about the disease. Finally,
supervised or unsupervised classiﬁers are used to classify the images. Among them,
the corresponding feature extraction can be carried out by utilizing the characteristics
of image phase, color space, texture, and shape. Figure 1 shows the traditional method
identiﬁcation process.
Wei Jiaxi [5] proposed a disease image segmentation method based on naive Bayes
for citrus leaf canker disease. The method was compared with threshold method and a
support-vector-machine-based segmentation method, and evaluated by combining sub-
jective scatter plot analysis and image mis-segmentation rate. Although the naive-Bayes-
based segmentation method takes a longer time, the mis-segmentation rate is the smallest.
Zhang Jianmin et al. [6] proposed an improved image retrieval algorithm based on HSV
color histogram space for citrus disease monitoring, which uses color space to display color
changes and perform non-uniform quantizing processing on leaf color. The proposed HSV
non-uniform quantizing (16:4:4) can more clearly reﬂect the color characteristics of citrus
diseases and reﬂect the global features of the image than the traditional scheme (8:3:3).
Zhang, M. [7] detected citrus canker disease collected outdoors, introduced a classiﬁca-
tion strategy, proposed a canker feature descriptor combined with leaf color and texture
information, and used the AdaBoost algorithm to select the most important features. The
experiment proves that this method has a high classiﬁcation accuracy. H. Ali et al. [8] used
Delta E, RGB, HSV, and LBP as descriptors for citrus disease images. Compared with other

Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 9334
3 of 16
classiﬁers, the bagged tree ensemble classiﬁer has better discrimination ability for color
features. The overall classiﬁcation results show 99% accuracy, 1.0 area under the curve, and
99.7% sensitivity. Deng, X. [9] proposed a method for huanglongbing detection based on
visible spectrum image processing and C-SVC. In addition to LBP features, feature vectors
were constructed by using statistical information of hue, saturation, intensity, and gray
image histogram, and dimension reduction was performed by PCA. Gavhale, K.R. [10]
proposed a method for detecting diseased areas of citrus leaves. The RGB images were
converted into YCbCr and lab space, and k-means clustering was used for segmentation to
detect the diseased pixels on the leaves. Finally, the candidate regions were classiﬁed using
grey level co-occurrence matrix features.
Figure 1. Traditional method identiﬁcation process.
Traditional machine learning methods are used to identify citrus diseases, such as
studying the color space of disease leaves, changing disease segmentation methods, select-
ing prominent features, etc. Due to the complex and irregular diseased areas of crop disease
images, it is difﬁcult for traditional methods to select and extract the best features from the
images for disease recognition, which requires a certain time, efﬁciency, and manpower
for preprocessing. The process of manual extraction of disease features is slow, which has
certain subjectivity and limitations, leading to low recognition accuracy.
2.1.2. Deep Learning for Pest and Disease Recognition
As a branch of machine learning, deep learning has better effect on feature extraction.
The current common deep learning networks are shown in Figure 2.
On the basis of traditional methods, deep-learning-based citrus disease recognition
has been studied. Figure 3 shows the image recognition process of citrus pests and diseases
under the deep learning method. In order to improve the recognition accuracy, Luo Jun [11]
proposed a method based on the ResNet34 model for citrus multi category disease recogni-
tion in complex natural environments to classify disease, and at the same time, it combined
unsupervised clustering image segmentation, depth separable convolution, and transfer
learning to identify the degree of disease. Based on convolutional neural network and
hyperspectral technology, Wang Jiantao et al. [12] collected 81 bands of citrus disease leaves
at 480–900 nm and input them into the VGG-16 model for classiﬁcation. The average
accuracy of the model was 98.75%. Shi Yu et al. [13] added the SE module of the attention
mechanism based on the Res2Net algorithm, resulting in an E-Res2Net algorithm that
enhanced network feature extraction and classiﬁed citrus leaf diseases into eight categories.
Hu Dingyi [14] used the data augmentation strategy ORGAA and constructed an ORGNet
classiﬁcation model based on PC-DARTS neural network structure to improve the recog-
nition accuracy of the model in order to solve the problem of small sample size in the
pre-harvest lesion citrus dataset. When improving the classiﬁcation and detection accuracy
of post-harvest defective citrus, ResNet18 deep residual network was used as the feature
extraction network for SSD, retaining the C4 and C5 feature maps. Comparative experi-

Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 9334
4 of 16
ments were conducted on the input image resolution, and the ﬁnal result was determined
to be 768 × 768 pixels. Song Zhongshan et al. [15] proposed a faster R-CNN regional
detection neural network based on binarization, transforming the full connection layer in
the original model into a binary system full convolutional neural network. The improved
model is lighter in size and the recognition time is reduced by 0.53 s compared to the
original model. Hu Jiapei et al. [16] improved the neck network of the YOLOv4-Tiny model,
using the detailed information of the shallow network to improve the model’s ability to
recognize small targets of the citrus psyllids. Mosaic was used for data augmentation, and
the average recognition precision of the new model for citrus psyllids reached 96.16%. Su
Hong et al. [17] used an R-CNN model based on 33-layer ResNet main trunk network to
identify citrus huanglongbing, red spider infection, and canker disease. Although there
were few convolutional layer networks selected, they could still achieve a high recognition
accuracy. Zhang, X. et al. [18] proposed a deep learning algorithm composed of detection
network and classiﬁcation network to automatically identify orchard citrus diseases. The
optimized YOLO-V4 network was used for detection and EfﬁcientNet network was used
for classiﬁcation.
 
Feedforward 
neural networks
（Signal one-way 
transmission, no 
feedback in the 
middle）
Feedback 
neural networks
（Strong 
associative 
memory ability 
and optimized 
computing ability）
Hopfield
LSTM
Boltzmann
RNN
RBFN
CNN
FCNN
GAN
Portability
Light weight
General 
Applicability
Deep 
learning
Figure 2. Common deep learning networks.
Generally, the network model is a speciﬁc single model and sometimes it cannot
accurately extract and identify the disease characteristics, so the concept of fusion is
proposed. Huang Ping et al. [19] designed an improved VGG19-INC model based on
VGG19 for the characteristics of citrus diseases with high similarity that could not be
well identiﬁed by a single model and added the Inception high-dimensional feature fusion
module to make the new model have higher recognition precision and strong generalization
ability. The S-ResNet model is obtained by discarding the identity mapping in partial
residual structure and the M-ResNet model is obtained by using 7 × 7 convolution kernel
to express deep features. The new F-ResNet model obtained by the fusion of S-ResNet
and M-ResNet by Tie Jun et al. [20] solves the problems of weak generalization ability
and poor robustness of a single model and improves the accuracy of citrus disease image
recognition. Li Hao [21] studied the citrus leaf detection algorithm based on YOLOv4.
Based on convolutional neural networks, features extracted from Densenet and Xception
networks were fused to extract features for citrus red spider leaves, canker leaves, leaf
miner leaves, and healthy leaves. Transfer learning is introduced for insufﬁcient datasets.

Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 9334
5 of 16
The proposed fusion convolution classiﬁcation model reduced the algorithm training time
and improved the model detection accuracy.
Figure 3. Flow chart of citrus pest and diseases identiﬁcation in deep learning methods.
Some foreign scholars have also carried out corresponding research. Sharif, M. et al. [22]
proposed a hybrid method based on optimized weighted segmentation and feature selection
to automatically detect and classify six citrus diseases. In the preprocessing stage, the top
hat ﬁlter and Gaussian function are used to improve the contrast of the input image, which
is helpful to spot segmentation of the disease and improve the segmentation accuracy. The
feature selection methods based on PCA score, entropy, and skewness covariance vector
were used to select the most prominent features, and the selected features were classiﬁed
by multi-class SVM. Khanramaki, M. et al. [23] proposed a deep convolutional-neural-
network-integrated classiﬁer for the identiﬁcation of citrus pests, including citrus leaf miner,
sooty mold, and pulvinaria. The diversity of data level, feature level, and classiﬁer level
was considered to increase the diversity of basic classiﬁers.
In summary, the deep learning method can achieve relatively ideal results in disease
identiﬁcation. Table 1 compares the advantages and disadvantages of the above mentioned
deep learning methods. Improving some modules of the model, using small sample transfer
learning, and model fusion can enrich the network model, improve the robustness of the
model, and improve the recognition accuracy.

Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 9334
6 of 16
Table 1. Comparison of deep learning methods in citrus disease recognition.
Ref.
Year
Purpose
Methods
Category
Merits
Demerits
Accuracy
[11]
2021
Improve recognition
accuracy
The ResNet34 model was used to
classify the disease, and the depth
separable convolutional network
TDSC-ResNet was used to identify
the disease degree
Huanglongbing,
scab,
black spot,
The model is lightweight
and the computation
is reduced
Lack of multi-leaf,
multi-fruit recognition
88.79%
[12]
2020
Achieve early diagnosis
of citrus pests
and diseases
Hyperspectral images were
collected and input into VGG-16
for classiﬁcation
Canker,
red spider, sooty mold,
glyphosate
High accuracy
________
98.75%
[13]
2022
Realize the classiﬁcation
of eight diseases
E-Res2Net algorithm is obtained
by adding SE module of attention
mechanism to Res2Net algorithm
Huanglongbing,
gray mould,
canker,
sooty mold,
lichen, resinosis, sharpie,
aschersonia
The E-Res2Net is 3.91%
more accurate than the
Res2Net-50
Low accuracy
86.04%
[14]
2021
To solve the problem of
small samples of
preharvest lesions and
improve the
classiﬁcation accuracy of
postharvest defects
Datasets were ampliﬁed using the
data enhancement strategy
ORGAA; the SSD-Resnet 18 model
is proposed
Canker,
resin disease, sunburn,
anthrax,
huanglongbing
The speed of
SSD-ResNet18 model
detection is
greatly improved
The classiﬁcation
accuracy is not improved
compared with the
original model
Map87.89%
[15]
2022
Identiﬁcation of citrus
diseases in
natural Settings
Faster R-CNN regional detection
neural network based on
binarization
Huanglongbing,
black spot, canker,
scab
The recognition time is
0.53 s higher than that of
faster R-CNN network
Only single blade is
identiﬁed
87.5%
[16]
2021
Identiﬁcation of
citrus psyllid
Improved YOLOv4-Tiny model
Psyllid
The model recognition
ability and network
detection accuracy
are improved
________
96.16%
[17]
2020
Citrus disease
classiﬁcation to improve
detection efﬁciency
R-CNN based on 33 layer ResNet
main trunk network
Huanglongbing,
red spider, canker
The classiﬁcation effect is
better than that of small
neural network model
________
Respectively
95.31%, 90.23%,
99.2%
[18]
2022
Identify ﬁve common
citrus diseases
The optimized deep learning
algorithm combines the YOLO-V4
network (detection) and the
EfﬁcientNet
network (classiﬁcation).
Canker, anthrax,
sun burn, greening,
melanosis
High recognition
efﬁciency
Outdoor algorithm
accuracy is lower than
laboratory environment
89%

Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 9334
7 of 16
Table 1. Cont.
Ref.
Year
Purpose
Methods
Category
Merits
Demerits
Accuracy
[19]
2022
Identiﬁcation of citrus
pests and diseases
Improved VGG19-INC model
Huanglongbing, leaf
miner, nematode
The weight space
occupation decreases
and the model training
speed increases
The dataset is
insufﬁcient and the
model is misidentiﬁed
95.25%
[20]
2021
Improve the
identiﬁcation accuracy of
citrus diseases
F-ResNet is a new model obtained
by the fusion of S-ResNet and
M-ResNet
Huanglongbing,
black spot, canker,
scab
Huanglongbing,
black spot, canker,
scab
There are few images of
black spot and scab, so
the model will overﬁt
93.6%
[21]
2021
To realize rapid and
intelligent identiﬁcation
of citrus pests
and diseases
The improved YOLOv4 model
was used for leaf detection, and
the DenseNet and Xception
models were fused for
pest classiﬁcation
Red spider, canker,
leaf miner
High classiﬁcation
accuracy
Less variety of diseases
The detection map
was 85.10%, and
the classiﬁcation
accuracy
was 96.69%
[22]
2018
Six diseases were
detected and classiﬁed
Detection of disease spots and
disease classiﬁcation
Anthracnose, black spot,
canker, greening, melanosis
Feature fusion improves
the segmentation
accuracy
________
95.8%
[23]
2021
Identify three
common pests
Ensemble classiﬁer
Leaf miner, sooty mold,
pulvinaria
High accuracy
Fewer pest species
99.04%

Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 9334
8 of 16
2.2. Identiﬁcation of Pests and Diseases Based on Spectral Technology
With the development of modern agriculture, spectral imaging technology has been
gradually applied to the identiﬁcation of crop diseases, instead of the traditional detection
methods. By combining spectral analysis technology and image analysis technology,
spectral imaging technology can conduct qualitative and quantitative analysis on the tested
objects and realize the rapid detection of citrus diseases [24].
Compared with traditional recognition technology, hyperspectral imaging technology
can achieve non-destructive, real-time, and highly accurate detection objects, acquire image
information of targets in any wave band, acquire spectral information of each pixel on the
image, and detect changes in internal physiological information of early crop infection
diseases [25]. Figure 4 shows the test diagram of hyperspectral imaging system.
Figure 4. Test diagram of hyperspectral imaging system.
Hyperspectral characteristics are unique, and there are obvious differences between
healthy and infected spectra, so it is possible to identify citrus diseases early based on hy-
perspectral characteristics. Wu Yelan et al. [26] used a hyperspectral imaging instrument to
collect the reﬂectance of the regions of interest within 478–900 nm of citrus healthy leaves,
canker leaves, herbicide-damaged leaves, red spider leaves, and sooty-mold-diseased
leaves as spectral information, and preprocessed the spectral information by using three
methods: ﬁrst-order derivative, multiple scattering correction, and standard normal trans-
formation. PCA was used to extract characteristic wavelength from the preprocessed data,
and SVM and random forest models were established to identify the disease. In 2023, Wu
Yelan et al. [27] proposed a bidirectional gated recurrent unit recurrent neural network
(Att-BiGRU-RNN) classiﬁcation model that integrated an attention mechanism, which
can extract deep features from spectral information and improve the contribution rate of
important spectral features to the classiﬁcation model. The overall classiﬁcation accuracy
can reach 98.21%. Deng et al. [28] proposed a non-destructive detection method for huan-
glongbing in the ﬁelds based on hyperspectral reﬂectance. The feature strap extraction
method based on entropy distance and sequential backward selection provides a choice for
dimensionality reduction, and uses machine learning algorithms such as logistic regression,
decision tree, support vector machine, k-nearest neighbor, linear discriminant analysis, and
ensemble learning to classify diseases. Tian et al. [29] used image processing methods such
as principal component analysis, pseudo color image conversion technology, and improved
watershed segmentation algorithm (IWSA) to analyze the feasibility of detecting citrus
decay based on scanned sound and hyperspectral transmission images (325–1098 nm) of
decayed citrus.

Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 9334
9 of 16
Citrus diseases are complex and changeable, and some similar diseases are difﬁcult
to identify. In addition to the above processing of spectral information to improve the
classiﬁcation accuracy, some researchers use the supervised partial least square discriminant
analysis method to better classify and identify different diseases. Liu Yande et al. [30]
collected ﬁve kinds of hyperspectral images of citrus leaves in the 380–1080 nm spectral
range, and established two discriminative model, namely, least squares support vector
machine (LS-SVM) and partial least squares discriminant analysis (PLS-DA), to conduct
nondestructive detection and disease grade discrimination for citrus huanglongbing. The
results show that the latter has better prediction ability, with a misjudgment rate of only
5.6%.Yao Weixuan et al. [31] extracted the region of interest of the hyperspectral image on
the surface of the collected citrus leaves, counted the average spectral data, carried out
vegetation and plant operations, and identiﬁed and classiﬁed diseases through the PLS-DA
discriminative model. Luo et al. [32] collected hyperspectral images of citrus visible and
near-infrared light from three types of tissues with a wavelength range of 325–1000 nm. The
spectral variables were optimized using a combination of bootstrap soft shrinkage (BOSS)
and BOSS sequential projection algorithm (BOSS-SPA) algorithms. PLS-DA models based
on three types of tissues and two types of tissues were constructed, and a fast multispectral
image processing algorithm combined with global threshold theory was used for detection
of decayed citrus.
Table 2 compares three methods—traditional method, deep learning method and
hyperspectral imaging technique.
Table 2. Comparison of traditional method, deep learning method, and hyperspectral imaging technique.
Name
Dataset
Feature Extraction
Merits
Demerits
Traditional
method
RGB image
Manually extract
features
Maturational theory, fast
calculation speed
Poor performance on
complex problems
Deeping learning
RGB image
Network automatic
extraction
Adaptable,
good learning capacity, good
portability
Large amounts of
computation, poor
portability, model complexity
Hyperspectral
imaging
technique
Hyperspectral
image
Feature band
extraction
High resolution,
nondestructive examination,
wide range of information
High instrument cost, low
sensitivity, large
sample quantity
3. Fruit Grading
Grading and testing of citrus is a key step in the commercialization of citrus. The
improvement in citrus yield raises the requirement of citrus fruit quality to a certain extent.
Early fruit quality detection relied on manual labor, and later machinery replaced most of
the labor force. However, due to the low accuracy of machinery, a fruit detection system
based on machine vision was used to process the image and realize fruit classiﬁcation
recognition and quality detection [33]. In this section, the ripeness, defect, and shape of
citrus are reviewed. Figure 5 shows the ﬂow chart of the citrus grading system.
3.1. Maturity Grading
The identiﬁcation of citrus ripeness is an aspect of detecting the quality of citrus and
a prerequisite for selective harvesting. Citrus with different ripeness has different uses.
Zhang Xiaohua et al. [34] converted the acquired citrus RGB image into the Lab color space,
ﬁnally selected a component signiﬁcantly different from the background color to eliminate
the background, and applied Hough circle transform to recognize and count mature citrus.
Hu Youcheng et al. [35] used the color features of RGB images to generate feature vectors
and conduct feature dimension reduction to obtain the best ROI for segmentation, and
used SVM algorithm for segmentation and recognition. In the RGB color space, Wang
Jianhei et al. [36] used the ratio transformation between R and G to obtain images that were
orthogonal and weakly correlated with the fusion images of H and S. Combined with the
mask method, object features were effectively extracted, and citrus fruits with different

Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 9334
10 of 16
maturity levels were effectively recognized. Chen, S. et al. [37] proposed a citrus fruit
maturity method combining visual salience and convolutional neural network to identify
the three maturity levels of citrus fruits. The improved visual saliency algorithm MSSS
was used to detect that the brightness of mature fruits was high and uniform, followed by
semi-mature fruits, and immature fruits that were very dark. After network comparison,
the four-channel ResNet34 network was selected to combine the information of RGB
images with the signiﬁcance map to determine the fruit maturity level. Wajid, A. et al. [38]
proposed a method to distinguish orange ripening, unripening and scaling, or rotting,
extracted image features based on boundary/internal pixel classiﬁcation (BIC), including
RGB color space and gray value, and studied the performance and application degree of
three algorithms, naive Bayes, artiﬁcial neural network, and decision tree. The results show
that decision tree is more effective than other techniques. Momeny, M. et al. [39] developed
a more robust deep convolutional neural network model to detect citrus maturity levels and
black spot disease using an effective noise based data augmentation method that includes
Gaussian, speckle, poisson, and salt and pepper noise. Li Lang et al. [40] used an industrial
camera combined with a ﬂipping mechanism to obtain the complete surface information
of citrus in motion. After preprocessing, two-dimensional coloring ratio was obtained
and its arithmetic average was taken to calculate the coloring rate for discrimination and
classiﬁcation. Yang Zhangpeng [41] converted the RGB color space of citrus into HSV color
space and obtained H component. The color consistency was detected by tonal interval
statistical method. The results were divided into four grades: orange fruit, yellow fruit,
light green fruit, and dark green fruit, and the overall classiﬁcation accuracy reached 93.75%.
Lu Jun et al. [42] used probabilistic neural networks to automatically grade citrus based on
color moments and statistical texture features. In general, the extraction and conversion of
fruit color space can effectively grade the maturity of citrus. In addition, the study of skin
brightness and noise can also achieve the same purpose.
 
Figure 5. Citrus grading system.
3.2. Defect Grading
The external defects of citrus fruits affect the storage and internal quality of citrus
fruits [43], so the detection of defects is of great signiﬁcance for the quality and value assur-
ance of citrus. Cao Leping et al. [44] calculated the probability of pixel distribution in differ-
ent color intervals of citrus fruits of pests and diseases, and used the calculated complexity
measure C(Y) and Shannon information entropy H(Y) as search terms to carry out machine
recognition of defective fruit on the search table of pests and diseases. Wang Xu et al. [45]
used the illuminance reﬂection model [46] to perform brightness correction on citrus images
with uneven contrast. The corrected image can be fully segmented into defect areas on the
fruit surface using threshold segmentation methods. Hu, W. et al. [47] used the dual-light

Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 9334
11 of 16
system to capture the invisible defect images of citrus, and optimized the YOLOv5 model
by integrating the attention mechanism CBAM and using the DIoU loss function, which
improved the average precision by 5.8% compared with the original model.
3.3. Shape Grading
Quantifying the shape of the citrus can add value to the citrus. Julie [48] compared
the performance of different invariant moments, used Zernike moments to describe the
shape features of citrus, calculated the high-order Zernike moments of citrus images, and
used k-means clustering method for shape recognition. Iqbal, S. et al. [49] used four image
processing methods, namely, radius feature method, area method, perimeter method,
and LiDAR-sensor-based to estimate and classify the diameter of citrus fruits into three
categories, and improved the existing citrus fruit size measurement methods based on light
detection and distance measurement sensors.
4. Harvesting
With the sustainable development of modern agriculture, automation technology is
more and more important in the ﬁeld of agricultural production. The traditional production
method of citrus orchards has many problems that are not conducive to large-scale devel-
opment, for example high cost and high labor intensity. These problems seriously constrain
the proﬁtability of the citrus industry. Therefore, an intelligent and automatic harvesting
method is needed. The rapid and accurate identiﬁcation and positioning of outdoor citrus,
as well as the improvement of the picking robot’s path planning algorithm, can improve
the harvesting efﬁciency. Based on machine vision technology, some scholars have carried
out corresponding research. Figure 6 shows the picking diagram of citrus-picking robot.
 
Figure 6. Harvesting diagram of citrus-picking robot.
Currently, citrus harvesting operations are mainly completed by manpower, and
the large number of citrus results in high labor intensity and low productivity. There-
fore, accurate identiﬁcation of picking points for citrus crops is particularly important.
Zhang Lu [50] proposed a citrus picking point recognition system based on deep learning
and feature analysis, as well as a fruit positioning system based on visual servo laser direc-
tional ranging, by separating citrus recognition and fruit positioning. This system solved
the problems of light changes, bright spots, and shadow blocking during the harvesting
process. Bi Song et al. [51] proposed a citrus picking point recognition method based on
Hough transform, which can effectively improve the recognition accuracy by collecting
citrus images under natural environment, constructing citrus recognition models, and

Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 9334
12 of 16
segmenting effective fruit regions. Tang Yang et al. [52] proposed a network model based
on the improved YOLOv3-tiny, replacing the original loss function with DIOU loss function,
using MobileNetv3-Small as the backbone extraction network and adding a new residual
structure, and adding a simpliﬁed spatial pyramid pool structure into the feature extraction
network. The average recognition accuracy of the improved network model is 96.52%.
The path planning of the picking robot can save time and improve the picking efﬁ-
ciency. Huang Xubin [53] used the depth camera to collect citrus images, input them into the
improved mask R-CNN algorithm for target detection, then converted the pixel coordinates
of citrus into world coordinates and input them into the improved ant colony algorithm for
picking path planning. Liu Dun [54] built a simulation experiment platform based on the
ROS system to reconstruct the citrus harvesting environment, and proposed the picking
motion planning algorithm PGI-RRT* algorithm based on the pre-picking guiding point to
realize the movement planning obstacle avoidance algorithm of citrus-picking robotic arm
in unstructured environments. Chen Xin et al. [55] abstracted citrus-picking path-planning
as a traveling dealer problem. The improved ant colony algorithm introduced an adaptive
pheromone concentration updating mechanism that changes with time, which can realize
the optimal picking path.
In the natural environment, the growth position of citrus is random and complex,
which is interfered with and blocked by branches, leaves, light, and other external envi-
ronmental factors, so that the picking mechanical arm makes mistakes in the process of
movement. In order to make the mechanical arm reach the target point accurately, it is
necessary to study the path-planning of the mechanical arm. Jiang Kun [56] converted the
pixel coordinates of citrus fruit into world coordinates, built a three-dimensional target
positioning model, adopted the D-H method to establish the kinematic model of the picking
manipulator, and deduced the trajectory planning of quincal B-spline curve to carry out sim-
ulation experiments. Liu Dun et al. [57] proposed an improved motion planning algorithm
for a citrus-picking manipulator based on Informed RRT*. Adding a pre-picking guide
point between the starting point and the target point can realize one-time planning of the
manipulator’s motion path that meets the picking requirements. Simulation experiments
show that the planning time is reduced by 46%. Xiong Chunyuan et al. [58] proposed a
path-planning method for citrus-picking robot arms based on deep reinforcement learning
and artiﬁcial potential ﬁeld in an unstructured environment. By introducing long and short
term memory results, they designed the network structure of LSTM-Actor and LSTM-Critic.
Three algorithms, LSTM-SAC, LSTM-DDPG, and LSTM-connect, are compared comprehen-
sively. It shows that the full use of neural network can explore the feasible path in complex
environment faster and more accurately.
In addition to picking and identifying citrus in static state, disturbed state research is
also a development direction. Xiong Juntao et al. [59] carried out dynamic analysis on citrus
under disturbed state, and used the improved k-means clustering segmentation method
combined with the optimized Hough circle ﬁtting method to segment the selected citrus
images. Then, Hough linear ﬁtting was performed on the binarized images to determine
the effective picking points. Ning Zhigang et al. [60] separated the two collected citrus
images from the background, and used the interframe difference method, the horizontal
minimum bounding rectangle method, and the establishment of a competitive function
method to identify the oscillation area of the segmented orange image. Although some
progress has been made, recognition can only target fruits in a single state of motion, and,
overall, this research is currently not very mature.
5. Existing Problems and Prospect
With the rapid development of computer hardware and image processing technology,
the application of machine vision technology in the ﬁeld of citrus production is more and
more extensive, mainly focused on the picking robot location recognition, pest and disease
monitoring, and fruit quality evaluation, and gradually realized industrialization and
intelligence. In recent years, the research on citrus production based on machine vision

Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 9334
13 of 16
technology has made great progress, but there are still some problems. Future research and
application will focus on the following aspects:
(1)
Achieve diversity of dataset samples
At present, the citrus research dataset based on machine vision technology mainly
consists of RGB color images taken by cameras or mobile phones and spectral images
collected by spectral imagers, while there are few 3D image datasets containing more
information. Subsequent studies can use RGB-D cameras to shoot and obtain color image
information and depth image information at the same time to improve the accuracy of
citrus target recognition. In addition, the number of open source datasets of citrus images
is less than that of other fruit crops, and the disease types are mostly huanglongbing and
canker disease, which affects the accuracy and stability of identiﬁcation to a certain extent.
In the future, the number of datasets and disease types should be increased to meet more
research needs.
(2)
Developing agricultural robots suitable for complex environments
Machine vision technology is a modern development of emerging technology, and the
prospect and potential is endless. Compared with standardized and idealized industrial
environments, irregular natural agricultural environments are more complex. When citrus
is affected by unpredictable factors such as different growth states, light intensity, and leaf
occlusion, the robot under working conditions may receive wrong signals due to these
complex environmental changes, thus, making wrong judgments or failing to make the
next choice immediately, which seriously interferes with image extraction and recognition.
Therefore, how to improve on the basis of exiting agricultural robots and overcome the
complexity and irregularity of the natural environment is a key point of future development.
(3)
Develop high-quality image processing hardware and intelligent parallel algorithms
In visual information image processing, computers are needed to carry out a series
of follow-up work. In order to achieve fast and accurate processing, efﬁcient serves are
needed to improve the quality of hardware to reduce the burden of the host. Deep learning
network models have a large number of parameters, large memory, and take a long time
during operation, which requires high quality hardware devices. At present, the most
commonly used algorithm is the serial algorithm, whose processing speed cannot meet the
work requirements, and some algorithms are only suitable for a particular crop, due to a
lack of universality. The parallel algorithm is developed or the parallel serial algorithm is
realized, so as to improve the analysis and processing efﬁciency of image system.
(4)
Add dynamic monitoring mode
In the process of citrus production, whether it is quality monitoring or picking recogni-
tion and positioning, the target objects are mostly static, and there are few fruit monitoring
studies under the state of movement. In reality, not all objects are absolutely static, and
when affected by the external environment, citrus swings to a certain extent, and most of
the existing studies have been carried out under artiﬁcial ideal environment, so the dy-
namic recognition effect is poor. Therefore, considering the factors encountered in the real
environment, increasing the dynamic monitoring of target objects is also a major direction
of future research.
6. Conclusions
This paper reviewed the literature on the detection of pests and diseases, harvesting,
and fruit grading in citrus production. In the detection of pests and disease, traditional
machine learning methods, deep learning methods, and hyperspectral imaging technology
are mainly discussed, and the common points and advantages of relevant studies are
compared. As the most mainstream method at present, the importance of deep learning
cannot be underestimated. The research on ripeness, defects, and shape of fruit grading was
described. In the harvesting process, agricultural robots are commonly used to recognize
and position the target, so that the robot arm can grasp the target object. The problem

Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 9334
14 of 16
in the above research and the prospect of future research are analyzed. The lack of open-
source citrus datasets means the model cannot better train other models and extract image
features, resulting in low recognition accuracy. Due to the variety in outdoor environments,
the citrus-picking robot will have certain errors in fruit localization and recognition in
complex natural environments, and the picking accuracy and efﬁciency will be reduced.
In the process of network model training, computer hardware deployment also plays
an indispensable role; good hardware equipment is the basic condition for success, and
high-precision and efﬁcient algorithms are equally important. The above problems restrict
the research of machine vision technology in the ﬁeld of citrus production to some extent.
In spite of this, machine vision technology still has a good prospect for development, and
there is an irreplaceable trend in agriculture. In the future, whether for citrus or other fruits
or crops, machine vision technology will play an invaluable role.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, K.P. and W.M.; writing—original draft preparation, K.P.
and Z.T.; writing—review and editing, W.M., J.L. and Z.Y.; visualization, K.P. All authors have read
and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: The Agricultural Science and Technology Innovation Program (ASTIP2023-34-IUA-10).
Chengdu Agricultural Science and technology center local ﬁnancial special fund project
(NASC2022KR08). Research and Application of Sky-Ground Integrated Hydroponic System for
Smart Farms (NASC2023ST03). Development and application of AI-based intelligent equipment for
picking fresh tea leaves in hilly terrain (Sichuan Science and Technology Plan Project 2022YFG0147).
Factory Agriculture Technology and Equipment (ASTIP2022-34-IUA-10).
Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
References
1.
Zhu, Q. A Study on Citrus Production Efﬁciency in China. Master’s Thesis, Zhongnan University of Economics and Law, Wuhan,
China, 2020.
2.
Li, Z.; Wang, Z. Inﬂuential factors on the fruit quality of citrus. Guangxi Agric. Sci. 2006, 307–310.
3.
Liao, H. Occurrence and control of common diseases of citrus. Mod. Agric. Sci. Technol. 2022, 818, 60–61.
4.
Liu, Q. Technical points of citrus pest control. World Trop. Agric. Inf. 2022, 541, 61–62.
5.
Wei, J. The Study of Image Segmentation of Citrus Canker Based on Computer Vision. Master’s Thesis, Guangxi University,
Nanning, China, 2019.
6.
Zhang, J.; Yu, D. Improved Algorithm of Color Space for Citrus Leaf Disease Monitoring. J. Agric. Mech. Res. 2019, 41, 38–42+47.
[CrossRef]
7.
Zhang, M.; Meng, Q. Automatic citrus canker detection from leaf images captured in ﬁeld. Pattern Recognit. Lett. 2011, 32,
2036–2046. [CrossRef]
8.
Ali, H.; Lali, M.I.; Nawaz, M.Z.; Sharif, M.; Saleem, B.A. Symptom based automated detection of citrus diseases using color
histogram and textural descriptors. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2017, 138, 92–104. [CrossRef]
9.
Deng, X.; Lan, Y.; Hong, T.; Chen, J. Citrus greening detection using visible spectrum imaging and CSVC. Comput. Electron. Agric.
2016, 130, 177–183. [CrossRef]
10.
Gavhale, K.R.; Gawande, U.; Hajari, K.O. Unhealthy region of citrus leaf detection using image processing techniques. In
Proceedings of the International Conference for Convergence for Technology 2014, Pune, India, 6–8 April 2014; pp. 1–6.
11.
Luo, J. Research on Citrus Disease Recognition Based on Deep Learning. Master’s Thesis, South Central University for Nationali-
ties, Wuhan, China, 2021.
12.
Wang, J.; Wu, Y.; Liao, Y.; Chen, Y. Hyperspectral classiﬁcation of citrus diseased leaves based on convolutional neural network.
Inf. Technol. Informatiz. 2020, 240, 84–87.
13.
Shi, Y.; Li, M. Convolutional Neural Network Based Classiﬁcation Algorithm for Citrus Disease Leaves. Inf. Comput. 2022, 34,
47–51.
14.
Hu, D. Research on Recognition and Detection Method of Detective Citrus Based on Deep Learning. Master’s Thesis, Huazhong
Agriculture University, Wuhan, China, 2021.
15.
Song, Z.; Wang, J.; Zheng, L.; Tie, J.; Zhu, Z. Research on citrus pest identiﬁcation based on RCNN. J. Chin. Agric. Mech. 2022, 43,
150–158. [CrossRef]
16.
Hu, J.; Li, Z.; Huang, H.; Hong, T.; Jiang, S.; Zeng, J. Citrus psyllid detection based on improved YOLOv4-Tiny model. Trans.
Chin. Soc. Agric. Eng. (Trans. CSAE) 2021, 37, 197–203.

Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 9334
15 of 16
17.
Su, H.; Wen, G.; Xie, W.; Wei, M.; Wang, X. Research on Citrus Pest and Disease Recognition Method in Guangxi Based on
Regional Convolutional Neural Network Mode. Southwest China J. Agric. Sci. 2020, 33, 805–810. [CrossRef]
18.
Zhang, X.; Xun, Y.; Chen, Y. Automated identiﬁcation of citrus diseases in orchards using deep learning. Biosyst. Eng. 2022, 223,
249–258. [CrossRef]
19.
Huang, P.; Bi, L.; Mo, Y.; Qin, B.; Lin, L.; Wan, H. Image Recognition Method of Citrus Diseases and Pests Based on Multiscale
Feature Fusion. Radio Eng. 2022, 52, 407–416.
20.
Tie, J.; Luo, J.; Zheng, L.; Mo, H.; Long, J. Citrus disease recognition based on improved residual network. J. South Cent. Univ.
Natl. (Nat. Sci. Ed.) 2021, 40, 621–630.
21.
Li, H. Research on Intelligent Online Monitoring System of Citrus Diseases Based on Deep Learning. Master’s Thesis, University
of electronic science and technology of China, Chengdu, China, 2021.
22.
Sharif, M.; Khan, M.A.; Iqbal, Z.; Azam, M.F.; Lali, M.I.U.; Javed, M.Y. Detection and classiﬁcation of citrus diseases in agriculture
based on optimized weighted segmentation and feature selection. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2018, 150, 220–234. [CrossRef]
23.
Khanramaki, M.; Askari Asli-Ardeh, E.; Kozegar, E. Citrus pests classiﬁcation using an ensemble of deep learning models. Comput.
Electron. Agric. 2021, 186, 106192. [CrossRef]
24.
Chen, B.; Yao, L. Advances in the application of spectral detection in the diagnosis of citrus Huanglongbing. J. Gannan Norm.
Univ. 2018, 39, 69–72. [CrossRef]
25.
Hu, Z.; Zhang, Y.; Shang, J.; Zhang, K. Research progress of hyperspectral images in detection and identiﬁcation of crop diseases.
Jiangsu Agric. Sci. 2022, 50, 49–55. [CrossRef]
26.
Wu, Y.; Chen, Y.; Lian, X.; Liao, Y.; Gao, C.; Guan, H.; Yu, C. Study on the identiﬁcation method of citrus leaves based on
hyperspectral imaging technique. Spectrosc. Spectr. Anal. 2021, 41, 3837–3843.
27.
Wu, Y.; Guan, H.; Lian, X.; Yu, C.; Liao, Y. Classiﬁcation of citrus diseased leaves based on hyperspectral and Att-BiGRU-RNN.
Trans. Chin. Soc. Agric. Mach. 2023, 54, 216–223.
28.
Deng, X.; Huang, Z.; Zheng, Z.; Lan, Y.; Dai, F. Field detection and classiﬁcation of citrus Huanglongbing based on hyperspectral
reﬂectance. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2019, 167, 105006. [CrossRef]
29.
Tian, X.; Fan, S.; Huang, W.; Wang, Z.; Li, J. Detection of early decay on citrus using hyperspectral transmittance imaging
technology coupled with principal component analysis and improved watershed segmentation algorithms. Postharvest Biol.
Technol. 2020, 161, 111071. [CrossRef]
30.
Liu, Y.; Xiao, H.; Sun, X.; Zeng, T.; Zhang, Z.; Liu, W. Non-destructive Detection of Citrus Huanglong Disease Using Hyperspectral
Image Technique. Trans. Chin. Soc. Agric. Mach. 2016, 47, 231–238+277.
31.
Yao, W.; Dai, F.; Yang, K.; Deng, X.; Li, S.; Zhou, K.; Li, P. Citrus huanglongbing nondestructive testing and classiﬁcation model
construction based on spectral information. Guangdong Agric. Sci. 2014, 41, 65–69+237. [CrossRef]
32.
Luo, W.; Fan, G.; Tian, P.; Dong, W.; Zhang, H.; Zhan, B. Spectrum classiﬁcation of citrus tissues infected by fungi and multispectral
image identiﬁcation of early rotten oranges. Spectrochim. Acta Part A Mol. Biomol. Spectrosc. 2022, 279, 121412. [CrossRef]
33.
Chen, B.; Chen, G. Review of fruit classiﬁcation recognition and maturity detection technology. Comput. Era. 2022, 361, 62–65.
[CrossRef]
34.
Zhang, X.; Ma, R.; Wu, Z.; Huang, Z.; Wang, J. Fast Detection and Yield Estimation of Ripe Citrus Fruit Based on Machine Vision.
Guangdong Agric. Sci. 2019, 46, 156–161. [CrossRef]
35.
Hu, Y.; Xu, H.; Huang, L.; Liu, S.; Yang, C. Segmentation and recognition of mature citrus and foliage based on regional features.
Mod. Manuf. Eng. 2019, 464, 70–76. [CrossRef]
36.
Wang, J.; Ouyang, Q.; Chen, Q.; Cai, J.; Wang, F.; Lv, Q. Adaptive recognition of different maturity citrus in natural scenes. Opt.
Optoelectron. Technol. 2009, 7, 56–58+62.
37.
Chen, S.; Xiong, J.; Jiao, J.; Xie, Z.; Huo, Z.; Hu, W. Citrus fruits maturity detection in natural environments based on convolutional
neural networks and visual saliency map. Precis. Agric. 2022, 23, 1515–1531. [CrossRef]
38.
Wajid, A.; Singh, N.K.; Junjun, P.; Mughal, M.A. Recognition of ripe, unripe and scaled condition of orange citrus based on
decision tree classiﬁcation. In Proceedings of the 2018 International Conference on Computing, Mathematics and Engineering
Technologies (iCoMET), Sukkur, Pakistan, 3–4 March 2018; pp. 1–4.
39.
Momeny, M.; Jahanbakhshi, A.; Neshat, A.A.; Hadipour-Rokni, R.; Zhang, Y.-D.; Ampatzidis, Y. Detection of citrus black spot
disease and ripeness level in orange fruit using learning-to-augment incorporated deep networks. Ecol. Inform. 2022, 71, 101829.
[CrossRef]
40.
Li, L.; Wen, T.; Dai, X.; Wang, Z. Online detection and grading system for citrus full-surface color. Food Mach. 2022, 38, 121–126.
[CrossRef]
41.
Yang, Z. Research on Grading Technology and Control System of Citrus Surface Color. Master’s Thesis, Central South University
of Forestry and Technology, Changsha, China, 2019.
42.
Lu, J.; Fu, X.; Miao, C.; Zhang, W.; Ding, R. Citrus automatic grading by using color and texture features. J. Huazhong Agric. Univ.
2012, 31, 783–786. [CrossRef]
43.
Sun, R.; Song, J.; Zhang, M.; Li, P.; Lv, Q. Application of Machine Vision in External Quality Detection and Grading of Citrus in
China. Agric. Eng. 2019, 9, 47–51.
44.
Cao, L.; Wen, Z. Citrus quality grading on statistical complexity measurement and multifractal spectrum method. J. Zhejiang
Univ. (Agric. Life Sci.) 2015, 41, 309–319.

Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 9334
16 of 16
45.
Wang, X.; Zhao, Z. Research on the Classiﬁcation Technology of Citrus Based on Machine Vision. J. Huaihua Univ. 2016, 35, 60–63.
[CrossRef]
46.
Li, J.; Rao, X.; Ying, Y. Correction algorithm of illumination nonuniformity on fruit surface and defects extraction using single
threshold values. Trans. Chin. Soc. Agric. Mach. 2011, 42, 159–163. [CrossRef]
47.
Hu, W.; Xiong, J.; Liang, J.; Xie, Z.; Liu, Z.; Huang, Q.; Yang, Z. A method of citrus epidermis defects detection based on an
improved YOLOv5. Biosyst. Eng. 2023, 227, 19–35. [CrossRef]
48.
Zhu, L. Orange Grading Technology Based on DSP. Master’s Thesis, Zhejiang University of Technology, Hangzhou, China, 2009.
49.
Iqbal, S.; Gopal, A.; Sankaranarayanan, P.E.; Nair, A. Estimation of size and shape of citrus fruits using image processing
for automatic grading. In Proceedings of the 2015 3rd International Conference on Signal Processing, Communication and
Networking (ICSCN), Chennai, India, 26–28 March 2015; pp. 1–8.
50.
Zhang, L. The Key Technologies of Automatic Picking for Citrus in the Natural Environment. Master’s Thesis, North China
University of Technology, Beijing, China, 2020.
51.
Bi, S.; Zhang, L. Research on Method of Citrus Picking Point Recognition in Natural Environment. Comput. Simul. 2021, 38,
227–231.
52.
Tang, Y.; Yang, G.; Wang, Y. Improved YOLOv3-tiny lightweight citrus recognition method for picking robot. Sci. Technol. Eng.
2022, 22, 13824–13832.
53.
Huang, X. Research on Target Recognition and Path Planning Algorithm of Citrus Picking Based on Machine Vision. Master’s
Thesis, Guangdong University of Technology, Guangzhou, China, 2020.
54.
Liu, D. Research on Improved of Motion Planning Algorithm for Citrus Harvesting Manipulator in Unstructured Environment.
Master’s Thesis, Chongqing University of Technology, Chongqing, China, 2022.
55.
Chen, X.; Wang, H.; Luo, Q.; Wang, C.; Qian, W. Optimal path of Citrus sinensis L. picking based on improved ant colony algorithm.
J. Anhui Univ. (Nat. Sci. Ed.) 2022, 46, 68–74.
56.
Jiang, K. Research on Target Recognition, Location and Picking of Citrus Picking Robot. Master’s Thesis, Jiangsu University,
Zhenjiang, China, 2022.
57.
Liu, D.; Wang, Y. Motion Path Planning of Citrus Picking Robot Arm Based on Improved Informed-RRT* Algorithm. J. Chongqing
Univ. Technol. (Nat. Sci.) 2021, 35, 158–165.
58.
Xiong, C.; Xiong, J.; Yang, Z.; Hu, W. Path planning method for citrus picking manipulator based on deep reinforcement learning.
J. South China Agric. Univ. 2023, 44, 473–483.
59.
Xiong, J.; Zou, X.; Peng, H.; Chen, W.; Lin, G. Real-time Identiﬁcation and Picking Point Localization of Disturbance Citrus
Picking. Trans. Chin. Soc. Agric. Mach. 2014, 45, 38–43.
60.
Ning, Z.; Cheng, H.; Yang, H.; Cheng, X. Dynamic recognition of oscillating orange for harvesting robot. J. Jiangsu Univ. (Nat. Sci.
Ed.) 2015, 36, 53–58.
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
