Fruit ripeness classiﬁcation: A survey
Matteo Rizzo a,⁎, Matteo Marcuzzo a,1, Alessandro Zangari a,1, Andrea Gasparetto b, Andrea Albarelli a
a Ca’ Foscari Department of Environmental Sciences, Informatics and Statistics, Via Torino 155, Mestre (VE) 30172, Italy
b Ca’ Foscari Department of Management, Cannaregio 873, Fondamenta San Giobbe, Venice 30121, Italy
a b s t r a c t
a r t i c l e
i n f o
Article history:
Received 15 November 2022
Received in revised form 23 February 2023
Accepted 24 February 2023
Available online 3 March 2023
Fruit is a key crop in worldwide agriculture feeding millions of people. The standard supply chain of fruit products
involves quality checks to guarantee freshness, taste, and, most of all, safety. An important factor that determines
fruit quality is its stage of ripening. This is usually manually classiﬁed by ﬁeld experts, making it a labor-intensive
and error-prone process. Thus, there is an arising need for automation in fruit ripeness classiﬁcation. Many auto-
matic methods have been proposed that employ a variety of feature descriptors for the food item to be graded.
Machine learning and deep learning techniques dominate the top-performing methods. Furthermore, deep
learning can operate on raw data and thus relieve the users from having to compute complex engineered fea-
tures, which are often crop-speciﬁc. In this survey, we review the latest methods proposed in the literature to au-
tomatize fruit ripeness classiﬁcation, highlighting the most common feature descriptors they operate on.
© 2023 The Authors. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co., Ltd. This is an open
access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
Keywords:
Fruit ripeness classiﬁcation
Machine learning
Deep learning
1. Introduction
Fruit constitutes a commercially important and nutritionally indis-
pensable food commodity. It has a fundamental role as a part of a bal-
anced diet by supplying necessary growth-regulating factors that are
essential for ensuring good health (Prasanna, 2007). To meet nutritional
and market quality standards, it is crucial for fruit to be delivered at a
proper ripeness stage. Moreover, grading fruit crops based on ripeness en-
ables harvest optimization and all the subsequent links in the food supply
chain. However, the classiﬁcation of fresh fruit according to its ripeness is
typically a subjective and tedious task. This is traditionally based on
human effort, which makes it sub-optimal. Consequently, there is a grow-
ing interest in developing techniques to automate the fruit grading pro-
cess. Machine Learning (ML) methods such as Support Vector Machines
(SVMs), decision trees, and K-Nearest Neighbour (KNN) algorithms
have been successfully applied to classiﬁcation problems in the literature,
particularly for fruit classiﬁcation. More recently, Deep Learning (DL)
methods such as Artiﬁcial Neural Networks (ANNs) and one of their der-
ivations, Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs), have also been applied
to the fruit classiﬁcation class showing very promising results.
1.1. Challenges of the task
The particularities of each ripeness classiﬁcation problem make it
difﬁcult, if not impossible, to select a general technique that applies to
all types of fruit. In fact, there is an incredibly wide range of fruit varie-
ties in nature, and this gives birth to a complex taxonomy. Each variety
of fruit may differ from the others in shape, color, texture, and many
other features. Sometimes this difference is apparent (e.g., strawberries
vs pineapple), while sometimes distinguishing two fruit classes is non-
trivial even for experts (e.g., apples vs Asian pears). Moreover, each
fruit type may embed highly variable features. This is the case, for exam-
ple, of apples, where a Fuji apple has a completely different color and
texture with respect to a Granny Smith apple (despite sharing a similar
shape). Thus, the upstream task of fruit recognition and the down-
stream task of ripeness classiﬁcation are both challenging. On the
other hand, it is essential to enable automation within the supply
chain of fruit crops to keep up with the worldwide demand for high-
quality, safe food. The following sections depict the challenges and op-
portunities of fruit ripeness classiﬁcation, paving the way to the state-
ment of the contributions of this survey.
Artiﬁcial Intelligence in Agriculture 7 (2023) 44–57
⁎ Corresponding author.
E-mail addresses: matteo.rizzo@unive.it (M. Rizzo), matteo.marcuzzo@unive.it (M. Marcuzzo), alessandro.zangari@unive.it (A. Zangari), andrea.gasparetto@unive.it (A. Gasparetto),
albarelli@unive.it (A. Albarelli).
1 Authors contributed equally to this work.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aiia.2023.02.004
2589-7217/© 2023 The Authors. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co., Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Artiﬁcial Intelligence in Agriculture
journal homepage: http://www.keaipublishing.com/en/journals/artificial-
intelligence-in-agriculture/

1.2. Ripeness standards
As mentioned, on top of mere discrimination between types of fruit,
it is of utmost importance to ensure food quality. This is both for safety
reasons and because of the practical fact that high-quality food is more
appealing to the market. One core factor that inﬂuences the economic
value of fruit is the relatively short ripening period and reduced post-
harvest life. Large amounts of fruit are kept for a notably long time in
storage for transportation and during this period it continues to mature.
Thus, ripeness is a crucial property of fruit along the supply chain. Fruit
ripening is a highly coordinated, genetically programmed, and irrevers-
ible phenomenon involving a series of physiological, biochemical, and
organoleptic changes, that ultimately lead to the development of soft,
edible, and ripe fruit with desirable quality attributes (Prasanna,
2007). On the producers' side, excessive textural softening during ripen-
ing may lead to problematic effects upon storage, including dents and
poor shaping. On the consumers' side, the appearance of the product
is one of the most worrying issues for producers, as it has a strong inﬂu-
ence on product quality and consumers' preferences. However, up to
this day, optimal harvest dates and prediction of storage life are still
mainly based on subjective interpretation and practical experience
(Mendoza and Aguilera, 2004). Accordingly, an objective and accurate
ripeness assessment of crops is important in ensuring the optimum
yield of quality products. The quality of the fruit (as measured by
aroma, ﬂavor, color, and textural characteristics) constantly changes
during fruit development from pre-harvest through post-harvest stages
as the fruit grows and ripens, as well as during maintenance in storage.
1.3. Economical impact of fruit ripeness classiﬁcation
It is imperative to improve the status of global food quality and secu-
rity to meet the needs of the ever-enlarging world's population. In-
creased fruit production through adding to the area cropped is not
sustainable as land is a limited resource, thus productivity per unit of
a land area must be increased. At the same time, there is a need to pre-
vent waste. For fruit production, the timing of harvest is crucial to ensur-
ing that the yield meets the commercial ripeness speciﬁcations. Over- or
under-ripe fruit has a lower or even no retail value and represents sig-
niﬁcant income loss and a waste of resources. For the consumer,
harvesting too early reduces the taste and quality of fruit whilst a late
harvest can lead to reduced shelf life, poor appearance, and undesired
ﬂavors and odors.
1.4. Predicting fruit ripeness
Many computational methods are known to be effective in
predicting fruit ripeness. Some of these require feature engineering
(i.e., statistical and traditional ML algorithms) while others process
raw data (i.e., DL algorithms). Each method is based on a speciﬁc feature
representation of the fruit item to be graded. To collect discriminatory
features, some methods require cheap and simple sensors (e.g., a con-
sumer camera), and some methods require special (and usually expen-
sive) sensors (e.g., an acoustic vibration detector). Similarly, some
methods are item-destructive while others are non-destructive. In
other words, the former type destroys the fruit item while assessing
ripeness while the latter can still assess ripeness without any waste. In
fact, the efﬁciency of destructive methods is limited, as they waste a
part of the crop. Non-destructive on-plant assessment of fruit ripeness
is generally preferable and has received increasing interest as it provides
several advantages as compared to traditional destructive methods.
The phenotypic changes during fruit ripening are complex. In most
cases, a green, hard, and immature fruit becomes more colorful, softer,
sweeter, and aromatic. Numerous physical and chemical attributes can
be quantiﬁed during ripening. These include size, shape, texture, ﬁrm-
ness, external color, internal color, the concentration of chlorophyll, Sol-
uble Solids Content (SSC), starch, sugars, acids, oils, and internal
ethylene concentration (Prasanna, 2007). These features can be used
to build non-destructive and efﬁcient fruit ripeness classiﬁers. Although
it is not realistic to simultaneously assess all the quality attributes in the
ﬁeld with non-destructive methods, destructive laboratory measure-
ments are time-consuming due to the large number of samples needed
to account for the within-ﬁeld variability (Li et al., 2018). Simple repre-
sentative non-destructive measurements are thus required to assess the
ripeness of fruit. A variety of non-destructive techniques and tools for
features collection has been developed, mainly colorimeters, Visible
and Near InfraRed (VNIR) spectroscopy (Walsh et al., 2020),
hyperspectral imaging (Su et al., 2021), visible imaging (Bulanon et al.,
2011), multispectral imaging (Shiddiq et al., 2022), ﬂuorescence imag-
ing (Matveyeva et al., 2022), and electronic noses (Baietto and Wilson,
2015).
In terms of methods used for coping with the ripeness classiﬁcation
task, seminal studies employed statistical techniques for sets of
engineered features (e.g., Mendoza and Aguilera (2004); Jaradat and
Zaid (2004); Mangas et al. (1998); Nagata et al. (2004)). More recently,
ML techniques pushed the state-of-the-art. Simple baseline algorithms
such as SVMs were applied to some of the above-mentioned feature
sets and paved the way for a data-driven automatic classiﬁcation of
ripeness. Even more recently, DL algorithms have been explored for re-
placing traditional ML techniques and proved to be highly efﬁcient and
effective when very large datasets were available. The shift to a DL par-
adigm allows not to compute or collect engineered features, which is
usually a time-consuming and error-prone task. Fig. 1 summarizes the
workﬂow from the data collection to the ripeness degree classiﬁcation
of some featurized representation of the raw input.
1.5. Contributions and structure of the article
This survey offers a high-level overview of the fruit ripeness classiﬁ-
cation task and of the methods that have been applied so far to reach ex-
cellent performance, with a major focus on the most novel DL
techniques. We found two other surveys that have been dealing with
fruit ripeness classiﬁcation in the past. The work by Randhawa et al.
Fig. 1. Example of workﬂow from the collection of raw data to the classiﬁcation of ripeness
grade for bananas.
M. Rizzo, M. Marcuzzo, A. Zangari et al.
Artiﬁcial Intelligence in Agriculture 7 (2023) 44–57
45

(2014) was published in 2014, thus it does not incorporate the most ad-
vanced DL methods. On the other hand, Wankhade and Hore (2021)
focus mostly on image processing while our survey investigates not
only state-of-the-art image processing techniques but also multiple fea-
ture descriptors for ripeness classiﬁcation.
The rest of the text is organized as follows: §2 provides a formal
statement of the fruit ripeness classiﬁcation problem together with
basic biology notions on the subject of fruit ripening. §3 focuses on the
different feature representations that can be used (and possibly com-
bined) to generate a feature description of a fruit item. §4 brieﬂy out-
lines the data preprocessing needed to apply classiﬁers to fruit
ripening. §5 describes the collection of scientiﬁc literature that gathers
the technical and theoretical effort to tackle the problem of fruit ripe-
ness classiﬁcation. §6 embarks in the uncharted land of going over the
speciﬁc problem (i.e., fruit ripeness classiﬁcation) to the more general
one (i.e., optimal harvest time estimation); §7 seizes the gaps in the
above-mentioned literature and offers ideas on new research topics in
the area; §8 concludes our work by synthesizing the contributions and
themes treated in this paper.
2. Preliminaries
This section introduces the formal statement of the fruit ripeness stage
classiﬁcation problem. Furthermore, basic biological notions enabling
fruit ripening are discussed. These allow for a full understanding of
some of the features and the representations used to grade fruit ripeness.
2.1. Problem statement
Given some dataset X containing ∣X∣fruit appearance descriptors x
(e.g., color, shape) for one variety of fruit, the ripeness classiﬁcation
problem requires learning a function F that maps each item x ∈X to a
predicted class bc, which is an approximation of the proper ripeness
class c ∈C. It is desirable that bc ¼ c holds. In other words, the learned
function must map each input fruit description to its the chosen repre-
sentation of its ground truth ripeness. The distance between the pre-
dicted class bc and the ground truth c is based on some notion of error
(e.g., mean square error).
Ground truth ripeness is generally assessed visually by a human op-
erator led by some guidelines that describe the ripening stages (e.g.,
comparing the color of the peel of the fruit to standardized color charts).
Human visual inspection is a highly subjective, tedious, time-
consuming, and labor-intensive process. Tools-based techniques such
as colorimeters or spectrometers, on the other hand, allow for accurate
and reproducible measurements of the corresponding features with
minimum inﬂuence by the observer or their surroundings (Anzalone
et al., 2013; Das et al., 2016).
The fruit ripeness classiﬁcation problem is wide-ranged, meaning it
can differ dramatically based on the type of fruit being considered.
First, ∣C∣can be arbitrarily large (although discrete) and vary based on
the type of fruit. For instance, the ripeness of bananas can be categorized
into four stages of ripening by visual inspection, which relates to pigment
changes in the peel of the banana (i.e., Stage 1: Ripe, Stage 2: Partially
ripe, Stage 3: Ripen and Stage 4: Over-ripe (Mazen and Nashat, 2019)).
This is exempliﬁed in Fig. 2. Similarly, the ripeness of dates can be cate-
gorized into ﬁve stages: Hanabauk, Kimri, Khalal, Rutab, and Tamer
(see Fig. 3). Second, the variance between features within a single class
can be very high, meaning that X can be largely heterogeneous.
2.2. Biology of fruit ripening
The development of fruit is characterized by a short period of cell di-
vision followed by a longer period of cell elongation by water uptake.
The ﬁnal fruit size mainly depends on the initial number of cells rather
Fig. 2. Example stages of ripeness of bananas.
Fig. 3. Example stages of ripeness of dates.
M. Rizzo, M. Marcuzzo, A. Zangari et al.
Artiﬁcial Intelligence in Agriculture 7 (2023) 44–57
46

than the cell size (Prasanna, 2007). The process of ripening, on the other
hand, is characterized by the development of peculiar color, ﬂavor, tex-
ture, and aroma.
2.2.1. The role of ethylene
Indisputable evidence indicates that ethylene plays a crucial role
in the induction of ripening in fruit (Prasanna, 2007). Therefore, a
main concern of the commercial post-harvest horticultural industry
is to control the exposure of harvested fruit to ethylene. An aspect
of fruit ripening that attracts molecular biologists is the prospect
that ethylene induces a mature, non-growing tissue to rapidly differ-
entiate into a new state, that is to switch from non-ripening to ripen-
ing. Because the tissue is already mature and the form and structure
of cells decided, it is thought that the molecular steps involved when
the switch in maturity is thrown may be relatively few. The ripening
system, therefore, is studied for the subtle interactions between the
signaling chemical ethylene and the fruit genome (Prasanna, 2007).
2.2.2. Climacteric vs non-climacteric fruit
Fruit can either be harvested at complete maturity or way before,
especially when it is exported with long storage times. Each item is
self-sufﬁcient with its catalytic machinery to maintain an indepen-
dent life, even when detached from the parent plant. Based on their
respiratory pattern and ethylene biosynthesis during ripening, har-
vested fruit can be classiﬁed into two groups: (i) climacteric and
(ii) non-climacteric. Climacteric fruit is harvested at full maturity
and is capable of maintaining the ripening process even when de-
tached from the plant. The respiration rate and ethylene formation
in this kind of fruit, though minimal at maturity, rise dramatically
to a climacteric peak (i.e., the peak of edible ripeness), at the onset
of ripening, after which it declines (Speirs et al., 1990). On the
other hand, non-climacteric fruit is not capable of continuing its rip-
ening process once it is detached from the parent plant. Also, this
type of fruit produces a very small quantity of endogenous ethylene
and does not respond to external ethylene treatment.
2.2.3. Texture and softness
Fruit ripening is associated with textural alterations. Textural change
is the major event in fruit softening and an integral part of ripening
Gowda and Huddar (2001). This process appears dramatically in climac-
teric fruits. Similarly, the softening process is an integral part of the rip-
ening of almost all fruit. It has immense commercial importance
because the post-harvest life of the fruit is to a large extent limited by
increasing softness, which brings with it an increase in physical damage
during handling and an increase in disease susceptibility.
2.2.4. Fruit ripening in the literature
Fruit ripening has been reviewed numerous times in the literature.
In 1984, Yang and Hoffman (1984) discussed several aspects of the
physiology and biochemistry of ripening, including the inﬂuence of ex-
position to ethylene. Some years later, in the study by Speirs et al.
(1990), some evidence seemed to show that protein and perhaps RNA
synthesis played a role in the induction of ripening. The techniques of
modern molecular biologists have enabled this theory to be examined
in a precise way, and evidence for the direct genomics control of the rip-
ening of climacteric fruits is now accumulating rapidly. Nonetheless,
there is evidence that cellular compartments are modiﬁed through rip-
ening, and recent proof suggests that lipid oxidation and/or phase
changes within membranes contribute to changing metabolite distribu-
tion within cells as ripening proceeds. How novel transcriptional and/or
translational events and changes in metabolite partitioning interact and
contribute interdependently or independently to ripening is still a mat-
ter of conjecture. It may well be that both theories are more or less cor-
rect and both mechanisms are involved but to different extents in
different types of fruit. Regardless, fruit ripening appears to be a well-
regulated, genetically determined event. Coming as it does at the end
of the development of an organism in an energy-rich tissue that is des-
tined for spreading, it would be surprising if its mechanisms of control
were the same for all fruit types.
3. Fruit feature representations
When feeding data to a model (be it statistical, ML- or DL-based) a
proper representation of the data involved is needed. More speciﬁcally,
a set of features is collected to build a description of each data item. The
more these features are representative and diversiﬁed among different
classes, the more effective the classiﬁcation. The next sections introduce
the main types of features that are used in the literature to address the
fruit ripeness classiﬁcation problem.
3.1. Color
Color is one of the ﬁrst elements taken into consideration by pro-
ducers and consumers when performing a qualitative assessment of a
fruit's quality (Opara et al., 2007). This criterion is related to physical
and chemical changes occurring during fruit ripening (Speirs et al.,
1990). In many types of fruit, color changes during ripening occur due
to chlorophyll degradation and the increase in the concentration of pig-
ments such as carotenoids or polyphenols (Choo, 2019). Several fruit
varieties have been studied for the relationship between maturity and
color. These include: tomatoes (Shewfelt et al., 1988), oranges (Olmo
et al., 2000), guavas (Mercado-Silva et al., 1998) and many more. To
measure the changes in fruit color, the two major methods involve the
usage of use of colorimeters and image capture and analysis.
3.1.1. Colorimeters
Colorimeters are traditional non-destructive instruments used exten-
sively in the fruit industry to measure fruit color (Hobson et al., 1983).
They are more precise than human visual assessment and are able to ad-
here to common standards utilizing, for instance, the CIELAB color
space. Portable colorimeters are now available commercially (Jha
et al., 2007) and can be carried to the ﬁeld for in situ data collection.
Data obtained with colorimeters have been successfully correlated
with fruit ripeness by using multivariate analysis (e.g., Jha et al.
(2007)). However, the per-item measurement performed by colorime-
ters limits the application of this tool for representing the ripeness of
fruit in a whole crop. Moreover, the main disadvantage of colorimeters
is that the surface color of the processed fruit item must be relatively
uniform for the measurement to be meaningful. Otherwise, many
spots on the sample must be measured to obtain a representative
color proﬁle, which becomes a labor-intensive job for the producer.
3.1.2. Color-imaging
Ultimately, for some applications, colorimeters are simply not able
to obtain representative color values due to the limited sampling area
compared to the size of the fruit (Yam and Papadakis, 2004). This limi-
tation can be overcome by utilizing bi-dimensional color imaging, which
converts photons reﬂected from fruit skin to electrical signals, which are
then received by a camera with a charge-coupled device or complemen-
tary metal oxide semiconductor sensors. Compared with a colorimeter,
this type of color information can not only be obtained rapidly but also
cover a larger area. Moreover, the equipment is ﬂexible enough to be
easily attached to moving platforms (e.g., tractors, robots, drones) for
a rapid collection of multiple data measurements. However, even bi-
dimensional imaging poses some challenges. First, it is difﬁcult to seg-
ment fruit in an image from its background. Second, the collected RGB
values are device-dependent. Normally, the sensor receives the light
and ﬁlters it to three channels (Red, Green, Blue) and their intensity
values are determined by fruit samples based on the current illumina-
tion and the internal characteristics of the camera (Yam and
Papadakis, 2004). Third, accurate imaging needs homogeneous
M. Rizzo, M. Marcuzzo, A. Zangari et al.
Artiﬁcial Intelligence in Agriculture 7 (2023) 44–57
47

illumination in the ﬁeld, which can be a very hard requirement to meet
depending on the geographic location and weather conditions.
3.2. Volatiles
Fruit types vary widely in aroma characteristics due to differences in
the composition of the aromatic volatiles present in fruit aromas, which
are ultimately determined by plant genetics (Prasanna, 2007). Fruit pro-
duces a wide range of volatile organic compounds that impact their
characteristically distinct aromas and contribute to unique ﬂavor char-
acteristics. Fruit aroma and ﬂavor characteristics are of key importance
in determining consumer acceptance in commercial fruit markets
based on individual preference. Previously, professional human graders
have been used to judge fruit quality based on visual and aroma charac-
teristics for selecting and evaluating fruit for ripeness at harvest and
saleability in commercial fruit markets. The advent of electronic-nose
(e-nose) devices has offered new alternative tools for grading fruit for
ripeness. These instruments are very effective in discriminating com-
plex mixtures of fruit volatiles, and thus are new promising efﬁcient,
and effective tools for classifying fruit based on its peculiar odor.
3.3. Visible and infrared spectroscopy
When light hits the surface of the fruit, it can be absorbed, scattered,
or re-emitted in a quantiﬁable manner. The amount of each of these
quantities is determined by the physical properties and chemical con-
stituents of fruit, and thus by its ripeness. Visible and Near InfraRed
(VNIR) reﬂectance spectroscopy measures the reﬂected light in the
range between 380 nm and 2500 nm. The light reﬂectance in this
range is largely dependent on the light absorption by fruit samples.
VNIR spectroscopy has been widely applied as a non-destructive and
fast measurement method for multiple quality attributes of food ripen-
ing (Wang et al., 2015). More importantly, portable devices have been
developed and used in the ﬁeld for collecting spectral data (Makky
and Soni, 2014).
3.3.1. Spectral indices
Either visible or infrared spectra can be analyzed and related to dif-
ferent ripeness stages by using spectral indices. The whole wavelength
scan, or values at key selected wavelengths, are used in regression
models to correlate with speciﬁc attributes of a fruit item that are asso-
ciated with ripeness. Using only one wavelength as an index for in-ﬁeld
assessment at a time is difﬁcult because the values can be highly af-
fected by the sensor, the environmental illumination, and the particle
size (Huang et al., 2021). Spectral indices embed a degree of variety of
the spectrum into a compact representation. They normally combine
the surface reﬂectance at two or more wavelengths in order to indicate
the relative abundance of a feature of interest. A number of key spectral
indices have been calculated to describe the progressive change of peel
pigment concentration during ripening. For example, the index of ab-
sorption (IAD) introduced by Ziosi et al. (2008) is a robust spectral
index obtained by calculating the difference between the absorption
at two wavelengths around the peak (670 nm and 720 nm). The IAD
range was found to be similar across different growing seasons and
showed a good correlation with ripeness for peaches (Lurie et al.,
2013), apricots (Costa et al., 2010) and nectarines (Bonora et al.,
2015). Selecting signiﬁcant spectral indices is non-trivial. In a naive
method, additional wavelengths are added, one by one, in order to
strengthen the correlation with the principal component scores until
none of the remaining wavelengths is signiﬁcant. Another efﬁcient au-
tomated method for identifying key wavelengths involves using a ge-
netic algorithm, which employs natural selection and random
mutations based on prediction accuracy.
3.3.2. Full vs selected wavelengths
The full wavelength or selected spectral indices can describe the
change of peel pigment concentration during the ripening process and
provide comparable values with the colorimetric method (Ferrer et al.,
2005). However, peel color is not always the only criterion for ripening
assessment. The correlation between internal quality attributes related
to ripening, such as ﬁrmness, was investigated with full or selected
wavelengths from the VNIR spectra (Wang et al., 2015). For the full
wavelengths, a common regression model is the Principal Component
Regression (PCR), which uses Multiple Linear Regression (MLR) to corre-
late with the principal components scores extracted from the predictors
(Mahesh et al., 2015b). This found practical application in some studies
for fruit quality assessment (e.g., Mahesh et al. (2015b); Rinnan et al.
(2009); Gomez et al. (2006)). Nevertheless, the variability of physical
sample properties and the performance of the hardware can generate
undesired results (e.g., light scattering, and random noise generated in
the extracted spectra). These factors reduce the accuracy and robustness
of the prediction models based on VNIR features Mollazade et al. (2012).
3.3.3. Spectroscopic methods
Spectroscopic methods utilize longer wavelengths than colorimeter
and visible imaging. However, similar to colorimeters, they are not
likely to be applied as high-throughput ripening assessment tools due
to their low spatial resolution. Spectroscopy has been used in assessing
the ripeness of a large variety of fruit, and portable commercial spec-
trometers are available on the market for in-situ data collection (e.g.,
Saranwong et al. (2003); Camps and Christen (2009); Makky and Soni
(2014)). Nevertheless, most of the studies have focused on the indoor,
post-harvest assessment of fruit maturity. Inconsistent performances
were observed for the models developed by spectra taken indoors and
in the crop. Consequently, for outdoor ripeness assessment, it is neces-
sary to build the prediction model with spectra taken in-ﬁeld and
understand the effect of environmental factors on the quality of spectra.
3.4. Fluorescence
Fruit degreening (i.e., the loss of chlorophyll) is an effective indicator
of fruit ripening. The measure of chlorophyll content of a fruit item can
be detected using a ﬂuorimetric sensor and proved to be correlated to its
ripeness (Bodria et al., 2004). One chlorophyll ﬂuorimetric method
measures the photochemical and non-photochemical processes with
the illumination of actinic light (Royer, 1995). At the time being, ﬂuo-
rometers based on Pulse-Amplitude-Modulation (PAM) are commer-
cially available. These use visible blue light to generate a ﬂuorescence
excitation and measure the minimum (F0) and maximum (Fm)
emitted ﬂuorescence. The maximum quantum yield is calculated as
(Fm −F0)/Fm. This parameter was found to be negatively correlated
with the ripening stage of, e.g., apples (Song et al., 1997). This
chlorophyll ﬂuorimetric method is popular within laboratories, but
difﬁcult to apply in-ﬁeld as the samples need to be dark-adapted. In
the study by Bodria et al. (2004), they designed a ﬂuorescence imaging
system that measured the light emission at 690–740 nm with the exci-
tation light in UV-blue and red regions. The performance of the system
shows a good correlation between ripeness and ﬂuorescence values,
even though the hue of the skin color showed little change. The fruit
samples used for measurement by this ﬂuorescence imaging system
were not dark-adapted, but the equipment has only been designed for
laboratory use. A problem related to using ﬂuorescence is thus the con-
tamination by environmental factors, which limits the in-situ applica-
tion. In order to reduce the inﬂuence of environmental factors on the
absolute ﬂuorescence intensity at a single band, more studies were fo-
cused on understanding the ﬂuorescence ratios using various light
sources of deﬁned wavelengths. This research led to the development
of a handheld, multi-parametric ﬂuorescence sensor: Multiplex®
(Force-A, Orsay, France), which employs four LED light sources and
three synchronized ﬂuorescence detectors (Ghozlen et al., 2010).
M. Rizzo, M. Marcuzzo, A. Zangari et al.
Artiﬁcial Intelligence in Agriculture 7 (2023) 44–57
48

Nevertheless, current studies of ﬂuorescence sensors are focused only
on the analysis of speciﬁc parts of a fruit, which again limits their poten-
tial use for high throughput measurements in the ﬁeld.
3.5. Spectral imaging
Spectral imaging consists in a type of imaging that uses multiple
bands across the electromagnetic spectrum. Spectral data is collected
using dedicated commercially available tools called spectrometers.
However, several factors contributed to the limited use of spectrome-
ters in the ﬁeld and the lack of consumer applications. Although size
and cost are the more obvious factors, others like stray light and reliabil-
ity have contributed to making the challenge even more difﬁcult. Das
et al. (2016) demonstrate a smartphone-based spectrometer design
that is standalone and supported on a wireless platform. This device ad-
dresses the issues of size and cost of in-situ data collection. The device
can be used for rapid sorting in storage facilities for different varieties
of fruit and to assess ripening. The portable nature of the device along
with simpliﬁed data collection methods can have a huge advantage in
gathering large sets of data that may be useful in building ML-based
models. Smartphone-based fruit testing can be beneﬁcial for several
end-users. Currently, much of the testing of ripeness in apples and sev-
eral other fruits is carried out in a destructive manner using mechanical
tests. Optical tests are non-destructive and can assist farmers in
determining optimum harvest times. All essential components of the
smartphone-based spectrometer, like the light source, ﬁlters, micro-
controller, and wireless circuits, have been assembled in a housing of
reduced dimensions (i.e., 88 mm × 37 mm × 22 mm), and the entire
device weighs 48 g. The resolution of the spectrometer is 15 nm, deliv-
ering accurate and repeatable measurements. The device has a dedi-
cated app interface on smartphones to communicate, receive, plot,
and analyze spectral data. The performance of the smartphone spec-
trometer is comparable to existing top spectrometers in terms of stabil-
ity and wavelength resolution.
3.5.1. Hyperspectral imaging
A well-studied form of spectral imaging is HyperSpectral Imaging
(HSI), which generates a three-dimensional imaging cube with images
at a range of continuous wavelengths. A single spectrum can be ex-
tracted from each individual pixel representing the absorption proper-
ties and textural information of fruit samples, which are correlated
with their ripeness (ElMasry and Nakauchi, 2016). Similarly to tradi-
tional visible imaging and spectroscopic methods, HSI is non-
destructive and requires little sample preparation, but it has the added
advantage that it can record both spatial and spectral information si-
multaneously (Mahesh et al., 2015a). For the assessment of fruit ripe-
ness, a common type of wavelength dispersion device is normally
used, coupled with an imaging sensor for the HSI image acquisition.
This is called line scanning. A line scanning device has the imaging spec-
trograph dispersing the incident light into different wavelengths instan-
taneously between the visible and the near-infrared wavelength range
(380–1700 nm). Line scanning HSI cameras scan the samples continu-
ously in one direction, so they can be attached to moving platforms. Ex-
periments have been made using tractors (Bauriegel et al., 2011), robots
(Zhao et al., 2016) and Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV) (Honkavaara
et al., 2012). Overall, HSI is a promising technique for fruit ripeness as-
sessment. Nevertheless, the in-ﬁeld application of this technique will
need to overcome the challenges of handling the large data output
and the calibration of variable light levels whilst in the crop.
3.5.2. Multispectral imaging
MultiSpectral Imaging (MSI) is a form of HSI that collects data at spe-
ciﬁc wavelengths instead of scanning the whole wavelength range. This
can be accomplished using a frame scanning imaging system with Liq-
uid Crystal Tunable Filter (LCTF) coupled with a CCD or CMOS sensor.
In Lu and Peng (2006) the authors use ﬁve wavelengths, based on
previous studies, to correlate their scattering proﬁles with the ripeness
of apples using an ANN. Another lower-cost MSI system uses a rotating
ﬁlter wheel containing a few bandpass ﬁlters instead of LCTF. However,
the tuning speed is lower than LCTF. This device has been used to pre-
dict the ripeness of peaches. With the best combination of four wave-
lengths, high correlation coefﬁcients were achieved (Muhua et al.,
2007). Similarly, Liu et al. (2015) used MSI with 19 wavelengths to pre-
dict the ripeness of strawberries. PLS, SVM, and ANN were compared
with the best correlation coefﬁcient of 0.94. Among the techniques de-
scribed above, MSI is the most promising for in-ﬁeld measurement as
it can record high-resolution images at selected key wavelengths for
the prediction of speciﬁc quality attributes. Compared with HSI, MSI
has a lower cost and is easier to convert into portable devices. A portable
MSI device with four narrow-band light sources and four reﬂectance
sensors of different wavelengths at 570, 670, 750, and 870 nm has
been developed commercially (Lurie et al., 2013). This device was
used to classify palm oil into different stages of ripeness using quadratic
discriminant analysis and discriminant analysis with Mahalanobis dis-
tance classiﬁers, achieving a correct classiﬁcation rate of >85%.
4. Data preprocessing
In order to improve data analysis for the fruit classiﬁcation task, a
number of studies have applied different data preprocessing techniques
to the spectra obtained before modeling (Rinnan et al., 2009). As a pre-
processing tool, Savitzky–Golay (SG) is the most frequently used digital
data smoothing ﬁlter (Olarewaju et al., 2016b; Jha et al., 2006; McGlone
et al., 2003). This applies the Linear Least Squares method to ﬁt low-
degree polynomial data. However, SG has contrasting effects on the per-
formance of multivariate statistical models. For example, Jha et al.
(2007) compared multiple preprocessing techniques and found that
smoothing did not produce any improvement in comparison with
other methods for the assessment of the ripeness in mangoes. Thus,
they warn researchers and developers against the use of this technique.
Standard Normal Variate (SNV) (Sanchez et al., 2012) and Multiple
Scattering Correction (MSC) (Olarewaju et al., 2016a) are the two of
the most frequently used techniques for photon scattering correction.
MSC is used to eliminate the nonlinear scattering due to the non-
uniform travel distance of light by linearising each spectrum to a refer-
ence spectrum (usually, the mean). Previous research has shown the
similarity between SNV and MSC. For instance, it has been conﬁrmed
that the correlation coefﬁcients were the same when assessing the
sugar content of peaches using PLS models with SNV and MSC
(Uwadaira et al., 2018). SNV can, however, be applied to an individual
spectrum without requiring a reference (Sanchez et al., 2012). In some
studies, SNV was performed with de-trending, which was used to cor-
rect the baseline shift of spectra (Sanchez et al., 2012). Generating deriv-
atives of spectra is a useful pre-processing technique to enhance subtle
differences and reduce the effect of mirror reﬂection (Ragni et al., 2012).
5. Approaches to classiﬁcation
The task of fruit ripeness stage classiﬁcation has been studied for de-
cades. This has given birth to a vast literature on the topic. Our review is
based on peer-reviewed papers published between 2014 and 2022. We
deem this range of years appropriate for allowing a good trade-off be-
tween the depth and breadth of the survey. Among this corpus of liter-
ature, we identify three main groups of methods, that are: statistical,
ML-based, and DL-based (regardless of the fruit type involved). Much
of the seminal literature regarding fruit ripeness classiﬁcation employs
statistical models to address the task. At the same time, ML provides a
toolbox of powerful algorithms that allow accurate classiﬁcation perfor-
mance. Some of these methods have been applied to the fruit ripeness
classiﬁcation task. However, in recent years, DL methods have taken
over traditional techniques and helped to push state-of-the-art accuracy
without
the
need
to
compute
complex
engineered
features.
M. Rizzo, M. Marcuzzo, A. Zangari et al.
Artiﬁcial Intelligence in Agriculture 7 (2023) 44–57
49

Investigations were conducted exploring multiple different attributes of
the fruit items (e.g., color, texture, smell). The next sections contrast sta-
tistical and ML-based methods with those employing DL strategies.
Among the former group, we describe in detail what has been
experimented on based on categories of feature representation (as pre-
viously introduced in §3). Fig. 4 depicts a standard workﬂow for a fruit
ripening classiﬁcation method, from the raw input to the output grade
prediction. This highlights the core difference between DL-based classi-
ﬁers, operating on raw data, and other types of classiﬁers, operating on
rich feature representations.
5.1. Statistical- and machine-learning-based
5.1.1. Color
One core attribute for fruit ripeness classiﬁcation is color. A common
standardized color space is the CIELAB color space, also referred to as
L*a*b*. In a seminal work in this ﬁeld, Mendoza and Aguilera (2004) em-
ploy the CIELAB color space to enable the discrimination among seven
different grades of banana ripeness previously labeled by experts in the
ﬁeld. They declare three objectives: (i) implement a standardized com-
puter vision system to characterize quantitatively color changes during
the ripening of bananas using the CIELAB color space, (ii) identify fea-
tures of interest that can be related to ripening stages (e.g., development
of brown spots and textural features of the images), and (iii) analyze the
features extracted from images for their discriminatory power. They col-
lected two proprietary datasets. The ﬁrst was constituted of six hands of
bananas at the ripening stage 1 (green) with thirteen or ﬁfteen ﬁngers
per hand, stored at standard room temperature and humidity until
used. Bananas were taken randomly from each hand. Their color changes
and development of brown spots were measured daily over twelve days.
The second dataset counts forty-nine bananas from a single batch, stored
similarly, and visually selected by qualiﬁed banana industry workers ac-
cording to seven ripening stages, seven samples per stage. In this case,
the color, brown spots, and textural features were extracted from the ba-
nana images and employed for prediction. The background of pictures of
bananas was removed at the preprocessing stage of the images using a
threshold of 50 in the grey scale combined with an edge detection tech-
nique based on the Laplacian-of-Gauss (LoG) operator. The development
of brown spots on the peel of bananas was evaluated from binarised im-
ages and quantiﬁed by two indexes: brown spots as a percentage of the
total area (%BSA) and the number of brown spots per cm2 of surface
(NBS/cm2). Four textural features (homogeneity, contrast, correlation,
and entropy) were extracted from images. Image texture was analyzed
by studying the spatial dependence of pixel values represented by a co-
occurrence matrix Pd with entry Pd(i,j) being the relative frequency or
distance for two pixels d-pixels apart in direction to have values i and j,
respectively. The methods applied were simple regression, analysis of
variance, and discriminant analysis with a 95% conﬁdence level. In
spite of the inherent variability of banana samples, the proposed com-
puter vision technique showed great potential to differentiate among
ripening stages of bananas using simple features (L*, a*, b* bands, %
BSA, and contrast) extracted from the appearance of the peel. Using a
basic discriminant analysis technique as the classiﬁcation criterion, it
was possible to identify forty-nine bananas in seven ripening stages
with an accuracy of 98%. Thus, the work by Mendoza and Aguilera
(2004) paves the ground for much further research in the ﬁeld. Other
classiﬁcation methods were explored in the CIELAB color space. For ex-
ample, Olarewaju et al. (2016b) compared Multiple Linear Regression
(MLR), Partial Least Squares (PLS), and Principal Component Regression
(PCR) to predict the maturity stage of avocados. The former method
proved to be the top performing on a self-collected proprietary dataset.
The analysis of features performed by Mendoza and Aguilera (2004)
has helped develop statistical and ML models using a minimal set of se-
lected features. However, note that in the same work images of bananas
were processed including their background. On the contrary, more re-
cent methods (e.g., Ni et al. (2020); Septiarini et al. (2019)) use seman-
tic segmentation to isolate the fruit items from their background. This
design choice can have crucial repercussions as it relieves the risk that
the classiﬁer learns to discriminate based on the features of the context
(i.e., the background) rather than the target item's features.
Further research was conducted on different color spaces. Moving on
to the RGB color space, in Goel and Sehgal (2015) they used the differ-
ence between R and B values to enhance the classiﬁcation of the differ-
ent tomato ripeness stages, reaching 94.3% accuracy on a proprietary
dataset of 250 images. Other statistical methods investigated include
unsupervised classiﬁcation, such as the K-means and Gustafson-Kessel
algorithms. These have also successfully been applied to automatically
separate bananas of different ripeness stages based on RGB values
(Pardede et al., 2019). In later research, rather than only using the aver-
age RGB values, the histogram of each channel was used to ﬁnd matches
with predeﬁned reference histograms for each ripeness group (Satpute
and Jagdale, 2016).
The values of other color spaces such as Hue Saturation and Intensity
(HSI) and Hue Saturation and Value (HSV), can be derived from RGB
values and better represent human visual perception (Bakar et al.,
2013). The Hue is deﬁned as the degree of similarity to some colors (usu-
ally, red, green, blue, and yellow) (Hartmann et al., 2011) whilst satura-
tion is used to describe how colorful a stimulus is relative to its own
brightness (Sural et al., 2003). Fuzzy logic was successfully applied to
group pineapples into three ripeness stages using values derived from
HSI (Bakar et al., 2013). Similarly, Ukirade (2014) used HSV values as
the input of an ANN model to classify tomatoes into four ripeness groups.
El-Bendary et al. (2015) proposed a more sophisticated method for to-
mato ripeness classiﬁcation. This employed the color histogram in the
HSV space and the color moments (i.e., mean, standard deviation, and
skewness), which measure the color distribution in an image as color
features. Principal Component Analysis (PCA) was applied to extract
the features for both Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA) and SVM
models with more than an 80% correct classiﬁcation rate for ﬁve ripening
stages. Note that rather than only using one color space, color compo-
nents from two color spaces can be combined, such as in the study by
Li et al. (2014). They used the RBH color space from outdoor color images
Fig. 4. Example workﬂow for fruit ripeness classiﬁers.
M. Rizzo, M. Marcuzzo, A. Zangari et al.
Artiﬁcial Intelligence in Agriculture 7 (2023) 44–57
50

of blueberries in combination with a KNN classiﬁer. El-Bendary et al.
(2015) propose a similar approach to classifying tomatoes in ﬁve ripe-
ness stages utilizing color features. It consists of three phases: (i) pre-
processing, (ii) feature extraction, and (iii) classiﬁcation. During the
pre-preprocessing phase, images are resized to 250 × 250 pixels, in
order to reduce their color index, and the background of each image is re-
moved using a background subtraction technique. Also, each image is
converted from the RGB to the HSV color space. For the feature extraction
phase, PCA was applied in order to generate a feature vector for each
image in the dataset. Finally, for the classiﬁcation phase, the proposed
approach applied SVMs and LDA algorithms for the classiﬁcation of ripe-
ness stages. In particular, they use PCA in addition to SVMs and LDA algo-
rithms for feature extraction and classiﬁcation, respectively. Experiments
have been conducted on a dataset of a total of 250 images. They showed a
ripeness classiﬁcation accuracy of 90.80%, using the one-against-one
multi-class SVM algorithm with a linear kernel function, a ripeness clas-
siﬁcation accuracy of 84.80% using a one-against-all multi-class SVMs al-
gorithm with a linear kernel function, and a ripeness classiﬁcation
accuracy of 84% using LDA algorithm. Along the same lines, Nambi
et al. (2015) describe the study carried out to classify the ripening
stage of mangoes into different stages. They collected a proprietary
dataset based on the physicochemical properties, external and internal
color values, and textural characteristics that were measured throughout
the ripening period of two Indian mango varieties. Experts identiﬁed ﬁve
stages of ripeness for mangoes (i.e., unripe, early ripe, partially ripe, ripe,
and over-ripe). They achieved promising results performing mango ripe-
ness classiﬁcation using PCA along with hierarchical clustering.
For a more comprehensive understanding of the problem, Castro
et al. (2019) evaluate the combinations of four ML techniques and
three color spaces (RGB, HSV, and L*a*b*) with regard to their ability
to classify cape gooseberry fruit. To this end, 925 samples were col-
lected, and each fruit was manually classiﬁed into one of seven different
classes according to its grade of ripeness. The classiﬁcation of ripeness of
cape gooseberry fruit was sensitive to both the color space and the clas-
siﬁcation technique used. The models based on the L*a*b* color space
and the SVM classiﬁer showed the highest f-measure regardless of the
color space, and the PCA combination of color spaces improved the
performance of the models at the expense of increased complexity.
5.1.2. Volatiles
The aroma of a given category of fruit is ultimately determined by
plant genetics and serves as a major discriminant for its classiﬁcation
(Prasanna, 2007). Before the advent of electronic noses, human graders
had used to judge fruit ripeness in a rather qualitative manner. E-nose
devices have offered new alternative tools for grading fruit for ripeness.
These instruments are very effective in discriminating complex mix-
tures of fruit volatiles, as new effective tools for more efﬁcient fruit
aroma analyses. The work by Baietto and Wilson (2015) explores the
current and potential utilization of electronic-nose devices (with spe-
cialized sensor arrays) in the fruit ripeness classiﬁcation domain. E-
noses contain a sensor array that evaluates all of the chemical constitu-
ents present in an aroma mixture (as a whole sample). Then, it converts
the electronic output signals (via a transducer) from all of the sensors in
the array and collectively assembles them to form a distinct digital pat-
tern, sometimes referred to as an Electronic Aroma Signature Pattern
(EASP). This is highly unique and speciﬁc to the particular gas mixtures
being analyzed (Prasanna, 2007). In this way, the instrument output
generates an aroma signature or smell print that can be used to identify
the particular type and variety of fruit being analyzed. Even though dif-
ferent types of fruit share some aromatic characteristics, each fruit has a
distinctive aroma. In a seminal work, Llobet et al. (1999) determined the
state of ripeness of bananas by sensing the aromatic volatiles emitted by
the fruit. For this purpose, they used an electronic artiﬁcial nose system
in combination with a pattern-recognition engine. They found that their
system led to a promising performance, providing 90% accuracy in the
classiﬁcation of fresh bananas. Similarly, Aghilinategh et al. (2020) use
fruit odor to classify samples of berries into ﬁve classes. For classiﬁca-
tion, they employed ANN, PCA, and LDA analysis. The ANN achieved a
precision of 100% and 88.3% for blackberry and white berries, respec-
tively. Also, PCA analysis characterized 97% and 93% variance in the
blackberry and white berry, respectively. The least correct classiﬁcation
for white berries was observed in the LDA method.
5.1.3. Fluorescence
As mentioned, a peculiarity of each ripeness stage for many varieties
of fruit is the amount of chlorophyll present in an item. Initial work by Li
et al. (1997) developed an optical chlorophyll-sensing system to detect
the chlorophyll content of bananas as the fruit ripens, showing a high
correlation with other methods to assess the color of the peel (e.g., spec-
tral analysis, instrumental analysis, and visual color matching). Com-
mon informative indices utilize ﬂuorescence from anthocyanins
(ANTH), ﬂavonols (FLAV), and chlorophyll (CHL) to indicate fruit ripe-
ness. In the study by Li et al. (1997), CHL showed a positive correlation
with the ripeness of apples. The in-ﬁeld assessment of CHL was also suc-
cessfully applied to grapes, and the combination of CHL and ANTH can
be used as a robust decision tool to predict ripeness as well (Li et al.,
2018). For tomatoes, all the indices were found to correlate well with
the time shift in the tomato ripening process (Abdelhamid et al.,
2021). The blue-to-red ﬂuorescence ratio (BUV/RFUV) was measured as
an effective parameter for the assessment of the ripeness of palm oil
with rough skin, and when combined with the classiﬁcation and
regression tree method resulted in an overall correct classiﬁcation rate
of 90% for three different ripeness stages (Hazir et al., 2012). Finally, in
Das et al. (2016) Ultra-Violet (UV) ﬂuorescence from Chlorophyll pres-
ent in the skin was measured across various apple varieties during the
ripening process and correlated with destructive ﬁrmness tests. A satis-
factory agreement was observed between ripeness and ﬂuorescence
signals. This demonstration is a step toward the possible consumer,
bio-sensing, and diagnostic applications that can be carried out in a
rapid manner.
5.1.4. Spectral imaging
Hyperspectral imaging is a data representation for fruit ripeness
classiﬁcation that proved to be valuable in a number of contexts. This
can be handled in two different ways: (i) light scattering analysis and
(ii) spectral analysis. Modiﬁed Lorentzian distribution, which correlates
the data obtained with a predeﬁned distribution curve by using a distri-
bution function, can be used to describe the scattering proﬁle and the
ﬁtting parameters that were used as the variables for a step-wise MLR
model (Peng and Lu, 2008). The results of the study by Qin et al.
(2009) suggest that spectral scattering from all wavelengths or selected
wavelengths can provide more accurate predictions of apple ripeness
than using secondary properties such as spectral absorption. Similar
methods were also employed for the prediction of peach ripeness (Lu
and Peng, 2006). However, with MLR models different results were ob-
tained when using two different cultivars (i.e., types of plants that peo-
ple have bred for desired traits). Mendoza et al. (2011) combined both
the spectral and image analysis techniques on scattering images, includ-
ing discrete and continuous wavelet transformation decomposition,
ﬁrst-order statistics, Fourier analysis, co-occurrence matrix, and
variogram analysis, but little improvements in the prediction of ripeness
of apples were found. On the other hand, Wang et al. (2012) used two
different feature selection methods: uninformative variable elimination
(Centner et al., 1996) and supervised afﬁnity propagation (Zhu et al.,
2013). The output of two PLS models with two feature selection
methods was combined as the input to an ANN model that gave a corre-
lation coefﬁcient of 0.83 with fruit ripeness.
The average spectra of the region of interest have also been modeled
for the assessment of fruit ripeness. Key wavelengths have been se-
lected, with different feature selection techniques. This operation was
performed before modeling in order to reduce the redundancy of the
whole spectral dataset. One of the widely used feature selection criteria
M. Rizzo, M. Marcuzzo, A. Zangari et al.
Artiﬁcial Intelligence in Agriculture 7 (2023) 44–57
51

is based on beta coefﬁcients derived from PLS models. The PLS models
measure how great an effect an independent variable has on the depen-
dent variable. A comparison of the performance of different MLR models
with wavelength selection based on beta coefﬁcients and PLS models
with full spectra as input showed that the ﬁnal outcomes were similar
for the ripeness grading of strawberries (ElMasry et al., 2007). The
same feature selection methods were also used by Rajkumar et al.
(2012) to predict the ripeness of bananas by MLR model and achieved
a good correlation for ripeness. Another key wavelength selection
method that can solve the collinearity problem is the successive projec-
tion algorithm, which iteratively adds wavelengths one by one until a
speciﬁc number of wavelengths is achieved with a minimum redundant
information content. This method has been used to select the feature
wavelengths for input to the PLS model and a high correlation was
found for predicting persimmon ripeness (Wei et al., 2014).
Near-Infrared Spectroscopy (NIRS) is another feature description
method for fruit that was applied successfully to the prediction of the
ripeness of many varieties of fruit. For instance, Munawar et al. (2019)
evaluate the level of maturity of mangos using NIRS. The classiﬁcation
of mango ripeness was successfully achieved using second derivative
pretreated spectra with an accuracy of more than 80%. With a different
approach, Silalahi et al. (2016) employed a genetic algorithm neural
network for multi-class prediction of the ripeness grades of oil palm
fresh fruit using NIRS spectral data. This data provided sufﬁcient infor-
mation about the compound structure of samples from the near-
infrared light that passes through. The variables used in the GANN
modeling process were the new variables obtained as a result of dimen-
sional reduction from original NIRS spectral data using PCA. Three statis-
tical measures (i.e., mean absolute error, root mean squared error, and
the percentage of right classiﬁcations) were used to assess the adequacy
of the model. This was precise enough to be used for the model calibra-
tion for fruit ripeness classiﬁcation.
5.2. Deep-learning-based
5.2.1. CNN and pretrained models
In recent days, DL-based image processing is considered the state-of-
the-art computer vision technique for image classiﬁcation tasks. The in-
troduction of CNNs made the feature engineering task way simpler as
such networks are able to extract semantic features automatically
through convolutions. Still, the visual classiﬁcation of various stages of
maturity of fruit is a challenging task as it may be hard to differentiate
the visual features at different maturity stages. A recent study proposed
to classify four different ripeness stages of bananas using a novel CNN
architecture, which is compared with the state-of-the-art CNN model
using transfer learning (i.e., VGG16 and ResNet50) (Saranya et al.,
2022). The proposed model performed comparably to the state-of-
the-art but it is lightweight enough to be deployed on low-tier hard-
ware. Further experiments were conducted involving transfer learning
techniques using the VGG16 model. The proposed architecture uses
VGG16 without the top layer. This was replaced by adding a Multilayer
Perceptron (MLP) block for feature reduction and ﬁnal classiﬁcation.
The MLP block contains a ﬂattening layer, a dense layer, and
regularizers. The output of the MLP block uses the softmax activation
function. There are three regularizers that are considered in the MLP
block, namely dropout, batch normalization, and regularizers kernels.
The selected regularizers are intended to reduce overﬁtting. Based on
the experimental results, the pretrained model seems to perform best.
At the same time, the determination of the type of regularizers is very
inﬂuential on system performance. The best performance was obtained
on the MLP block that has a Dropout of 0.5 with increased accuracy
reaching 18.42%. The Batch Normalization and the regularizer kernels
performance increased the accuracy by 10.52% and 2.63%, respectively.
Ultimately, this study shows that the performance of DL strategies
using transfer learning is always better than using ML with traditional
feature extraction to determine fruit ripeness.
Another discriminant characteristic of fruit that must be accounted
for when grading their ripeness is whether the fruit is climacteric.
Wismadi et al. (2019) focus on a non-climacteric fruit, that is the dragon
fruit. This requires particular attention as it has to be harvested after it is
ripened and cannot be ripened after harvesting using the hastening rip-
ening process such as ethylene, carbide, CO2, etc. They put forth an ap-
plication to identify the ripeness of the dragon fruit and the optimal
harvest time using the RESNET 152 CNN-based model. The system
they developed was trained using pictures of dragon fruit at different
stages of maturity. The results they achieved were promising and
more accurate compared to the VGG16/19.
5.2.2. Detection-based approaches
It is common knowledge that DL algorithms work as well as the size
and variety of their training set. A collection of relevant datasets for the
task is summarized in Table 1. The work of Ge et al. (2016) introduced
the DeepFruits, a huge dataset for the task for fruit detection task, and
a novel DL approach serving the same purpose. First, they explored
the use of the FasterRCNN framework (Ren et al., 2015) for fruit detec-
tion and achieved impressive results. Furthermore, they demonstrated
that such an approach could be rapidly trained and deployed with a
small amount of training data (as few as 25 images). However, an aspect
they did not explore was the potential for the system to perform not
only fruit detection but also ripeness estimation. Inspired by DeepFruits,
the work by Halstead et al. (2018) presents a robotic vision system that
can accurately estimate the ripeness (as well as the quantity) of sweet
pepper, a key horticultural crop. This system consists of three parts:
(i) detection, (ii) ripeness estimation, and (iii) tracking. Similarly to
the approach by Ge et al. (2016), efﬁcient detection is achieved using
the FasterRCNN framework (Ren et al., 2015). Ripeness is then esti-
mated in the same framework by learning a parallel layer which exper-
imentally shows superior performance than treating ripeness stages as
extra classes in the traditional FRCNN framework. The evaluation of
these two techniques outlines the slightly improved performance of
the parallel layer: they achieve an F1 score of 77.3 using the parallel
technique and 72.5 for the other best-scoring multi-class classiﬁer. To
track the crop, they present a vision-only tracking via detection ap-
proach, which uses the FRCNN with parallel layers as input. Being a
vision-only solution, this approach is cheap to implement as it only
requires a (possibly consumer) camera.
Building a more complex system, the goal of the study proposed by
Ni et al. (2020) is to develop a data processing pipeline to count berries,
measure their maturity, and evaluate the compactness (cluster tight-
ness) automatically. Their strategy employs a DL-based image segmen-
tation method to extract an individual or groups of berries from the
background. The target consists of four southern high-bush blueberry
cultivars (i.e., Emerald, Farthing, Meadowlark, and Star). A Mask R-
CNN (He et al., 2017) model was trained and tested to detect and seg-
ment individual blueberries with respect to their maturity stage. The
mean average precision was 71.6% and the corresponding mask accu-
racy was 90.4%. The analysis of the traits collected from the four culti-
vars highlighted useful information for the producers. For example, it
Table 1
Public datasets used within fruit-related applications.
Name
Task
Sources
Fruit 360
Classiﬁcation
Mureşan and Oltean (2018)
Fruit recognition
Recognition
Hussain et al. (2019, 2018)
ACFR Orchard Fruit
Detection
Bargoti and Underwood (2017, 2016)
VegFruit
Classiﬁcation
Hou et al. (2017)
MinneApple
Detection
Häni et al. (2019)
Lemon
Quality assurance
Adamiak (2020)
Grocery Store
Classiﬁcation
Klasson et al. (2019)
AppleScab FDs / LDs
Quality assurance
Kodors et al. (2021a, b, c)
Pistachio
Detection
Ozkan et al. (2021, 2022)
Date fruit
Detection
Koklu et al. (2021a, b)
M. Rizzo, M. Marcuzzo, A. Zangari et al.
Artiﬁcial Intelligence in Agriculture 7 (2023) 44–57
52

indicated that the ‘Star’ variety had the fewest berries per cluster, ‘Far-
thing’ had the least mature fruit in mid-April and the most compact
clusters, while ‘Meadowlark’ had the loosest clusters. Thus, there is
proof that the DL image segmentation technique developed in this
study is efﬁcient for detecting and segmenting blueberry fruit,
extracting traits of interest related to machine harvestability, and mon-
itoring blueberry fruit development.
5.2.3. Combination of neural models and engineered features
The above-mentioned techniques were tested against a variety of
fruit types at the same time. One particularly relevant crop worldwide
is represented by bananas. The effectiveness and fast classiﬁcation of
the maturity stage of bananas are the most decisive factors in determin-
ing their quality. This is one of the reasons that motivate the necessity to
design and implement image processing tools for the correct ripening
stage classiﬁcation of the different incoming banana bunches. In
Mazen and Nashat (2019) an automatic computer vision system is pro-
posed to identify the ripening stages of bananas. First, a four-class
homemade database is prepared. Second, an ANN-based framework
that uses color, the development of brown spots, and Tamura statistical
texture features (Tamura et al., 1978) are employed to grade the ripen-
ing stages of bananas. The performance of the proposed system is com-
pared with various other traditional ML methods (e.g., SVM, naive
Bayes, KNN, decision trees, and discriminant analysis). The results re-
veal that the proposed ANN-based system has the highest overall classi-
ﬁcation rate (97.75%) among the considered techniques.
Similarly to the research by Mazen and Nashat (2019), other works
specialized in grading one particular type of fruit. For instance, Miraei
Ashtiani et al. (2021) analyze, evaluate and classify mulberry fruit ac-
cording to their stage of ripeness. Three stages were considered: unripe,
ripe, and overripe. To collect their proprietary dataset, a total of 577
mulberries were graded by an expert and the corresponding images
were captured by an imaging system. Then, individual mulberries
were segmented and the geometrical properties, color, and texture
characteristics of each item were extracted using two feature reduction
methods. One feature reduction method is the Correlation-based Fea-
ture Selection subset (CFS) and the other is the Consistency subset
(CONS). Finally, an ANN and SVM were applied to classify the mulberry
fruit. The ANN classiﬁcation paired with the CFS subset feature extrac-
tion method resulted in an accuracy of 100%, 100%, and 99.1% over the
three classes, respectively. Also, the same couple led to the least mean
square error values. The ANN structure with the CONS subset feature ex-
traction method still resulted in an acceptable model with a correspond-
ing accuracy of 100%, 98.9%, and 98.3%. In general, the machine vision
system combined with the ANN and SVM algorithms successfully classi-
ﬁed mulberries based on maturity.
Again using CNNs, Liming and Yanchao (2010) discuss an automatic
vision-based system for sorting and analyzing strawberries. They pro-
posed an automated system to predict the ripeness level of strawberry
fruit, using a very simple CNN architecture. For the success of classiﬁca-
tion, appropriate features must be extracted. Surface color, size, and
shape are necessary features for classiﬁcation. The surface color of
strawberry fruit determines its ripeness level. The CNN proved to ex-
tract color, size, and shape features from strawberry surfaces and
achieves as high as 91.6% accuracy.
On a different note, Gao et al. (2020) estimate the ripeness of straw-
berries using the HSI system, both in the ﬁeld and in laboratory condi-
tions. HSI data was collected for strawberries at early ripe and ripe
stages, covering wavelength ranges from 370 to 1015 nm. Spectral fea-
ture wavelengths were selected using the sequential feature selection
algorithm. Two wavelengths were selected for the ﬁeld (530 and
604 nm) and laboratory (528 and 715 nm) samples, respectively.
Then, the reliability of such spectral features was validated based on
an SVM classiﬁer. The performance of the SVM classiﬁcation models
showed good results based on the receiver operating characteristic
values for samples under both ﬁeld and laboratory conditions (higher
than 0.95). Additionally, a CNN was used to extract spatial features
from the spectral wavelength and the ﬁrst together with the three prin-
cipal components for laboratory samples. A pretrained AlexNet CNN
was used to classify the early ripe and ripe strawberry samples, which
obtained an accuracy of 98.6% for the test dataset.
Adding to the discussion on classiﬁcation based on color features,
Rivero Mesa and Chiang (2021) propose a non-invasive automated sys-
tem for export-quality banana ripeness tiers. This system combines nu-
merous features, including RGB values and hyperspectral imaging, put
together by DL techniques. The multi-input model achieved an excellent
overall accuracy of 98.45% using only a minimal number of samples
compared to other methods in the literature. Moreover, the model
was able to incorporate both the external and internal properties of
the fruit. The size of the bananas was used as a feature for ripeness
grade classiﬁcation as well as other morphological features using RGB
imaging. Reﬂectance values of the fruit were also used and obtained
through hyperspectral imaging. These proved to offer valuable informa-
tion and have shown a high correlation with the internal features. This
study highlighted the combined strengths of RGB and hyperspectral im-
aging in grading bananas, which may serve as a paradigm for grading
other horticultural crops.
A similar system was developed by Garillos-Manliguez and Chiang
(2021) to estimate six maturity stages of papaya fruit whilst suggesting
a novel nondestructive and multi-modal classiﬁcation method using
deep CNNs. The models they designed estimated fruit maturity by fea-
ture concatenation of data acquired from two imaging modes: visible-
light and hyperspectral imaging systems. Morphological changes in
the sample fruit can be measured with RGB images. At the same time,
the spectral signatures, which provide high sensitivity and correlation
with the internal properties of the fruit, can be extracted from
hyperspectral images with a wavelength range between 400 nm and
900 nm. In the study, some of the most popular pretrained CNN archi-
tectures
(i.e.,
AlexNet,
VGG16,
VGG19,
ResNet50,
ResNeXt50,
MobileNet, and MobileNetV2) were investigated to utilize multi-
modal data cubes composed of RGB and hyperspectral data for sensitiv-
ity analyses. Such multi-modal variants could achieve up to 0.90 F1
scores for the six-way classiﬁcation. These results conﬁrm the above-
mentioned ﬁndings indicating that multi-modal DL architectures and
multi-modal imaging have great potential for real-time in-ﬁeld fruit
ripeness estimation.
5.2.4. Classiﬁcation in orchard environment
Specializing in yet another fruit crop, Altaheri et al. (2019) ﬁll the
gap in research in the area of machine vision for date fruits in an orchard
environment. In their work, they propose an efﬁcient machine vision
framework for date fruit harvesting robots. The framework consists of
three classiﬁcation models used to classify date fruit images in real-
time according to their type, maturity, and harvesting decision. In the
classiﬁcation models, deep CNNs are utilized with transfer learning
and ﬁne-tuning on pre-trained models. To build a robust vision system,
they create a rich image dataset of date fruit bunches in an orchard that
consists of more than eight-thousand images of ﬁve date types in differ-
ent pre-maturity and maturity stages. The dataset has a large degree of
variations that reﬂects the challenges in the date orchard environment
including variations in angles, scales, illumination conditions, and date
bunches covered by bags. The proposed date fruit classiﬁcation models
achieve accuracy scores as high as 99.01%, 97.25%, and 98.59% for the
corresponding ripeness classes. Furthermore, they report times of
20.6, 20.7, and 35.9 milliseconds for the type, maturity, and harvesting
decision classiﬁcation tasks, respectively. Such values make the pro-
posed system viable for real-time use.
5.2.5. Real-time assessment of ripeness
The research by Suharjito et al. (2021) addresses the problem of oil
palm ripeness classiﬁcation. Though many techniques have been ex-
plored in the literature, most of the methods require devices with
M. Rizzo, M. Marcuzzo, A. Zangari et al.
Artiﬁcial Intelligence in Agriculture 7 (2023) 44–57
53

high computational resources that could not be implemented in mobile
applications. To overcome this problem, the authors focus on creating a
mobile application to classify the ripeness levels of oil palm using a
lightweight CNN. They implemented ImageNet transfer learning
on four lightweight CNN models with a novel data augmentation
method named “9-angle crop”, which can be further optimized using
post-training quantization. Transfer learning with three unfrozen
convolutional blocks and 9 angle crops successfully increased the classi-
ﬁcation accuracy on MobileNetV1. However, EfﬁcientNetB0 performed
best with an accuracy of 0.89. Float16 quantization also proved to be
the most suitable post-training quantization method for this model,
halving the size of EfﬁcientNetB0 with the least increase in image clas-
siﬁcation time and an accuracy drop of only 0.005.
5.2.6. Attention-based approaches
A recent breakthrough in DL has been the introduction of attention
models (Bahdanau et al., 2015), which found application, among others,
in fruit ripeness classiﬁcation. Attention allows learning a weighted sum
of embeddings of the input tokens that can then be manipulated in
various ways (e.g., for input classiﬁcation). The study by Herman et al.
(2020) led to the development of a model for oil palm ripeness
prediction
using
a
residual-based
attention
mechanism
ANN
(ResAttDenseNet) that could recognize the small detail differences be-
tween images. The proprietary dataset used for conducting their exper-
iments consists of four-hundred images including seven levels of
ripeness. As a result, they showed that the proposed model could im-
prove the F1 Score by 1.1% compared to the highest F1 score from
other basic DL and traditional ML models compared in the study.
6. Prediction of optimal harvest time
Global food security for the increasing world population not only re-
quires increased sustainable production of food but also process optimi-
zation. This means that a signiﬁcant reduction in pre and post-harvest
waste is imperative. The timing of when some fruit is harvested is crit-
ical for reducing waste along the supply chain and increasing fruit qual-
ity for consumers. The early in-ﬁeld assessment of fruit ripeness and
prediction of the harvest date and yield by non-destructive technologies
have the potential to revolutionize farming practices and enable the
consumer to eat the tastiest and freshest fruit possible. As discussed
above, a variety of non-destructive techniques have been applied to es-
timate the ripeness or maturity but not all of them are applicable for in
situ (ﬁeld or glasshouse) assessment. Non-destructive methods are very
promising for in-ﬁeld ripeness assessment, but the most critical ques-
tion is how to link such assessment to predict yield and the optimal har-
vest date. This is highly challenging and made complicated by ripeness
variability within and between plants.
Environmental factors such as temperature, light levels, humidity,
etc. signiﬁcantly inﬂuence the development of crops as well, and it is es-
sential to incorporate the predictions of these important environmental
factors in the determination of the optimal harvest date (Teng et al.,
2012). Several crop models have been developed since the 1960s
based on the work in Loomis and Williams (1963) with the input of en-
vironmental factors both for in-ﬁeld and greenhouse prediction. Such
models are difﬁcult to use due to the number of input variables (e.g.,
(Qiu et al., 2016)). In the research by Qiu et al. (2016), they investigated
the dominant environmental factors in greenhouses for tomato growth
and it was found that temperature, humidity, and photosynthesis active
radiation interact according to a positive or negative correlation to crop
growth. The inﬂuence of temperature has also been reported in a num-
ber of studies such as for tomatoes (Teng et al., 2012), grapes (Tomana
et al., 1979), apple (Yamada et al., 1994), mangoes (Medlicott et al.,
1986), and more. The overall color change of the crop at different con-
stant temperatures was studied, but the variation of the temperature
within each day was not considered (Shewfelt et al., 1988). Munoz
et al. (2012) developed a time series regression model for the prediction
of the harvest date of blueberries. The minimum and maximum daily
temperatures from the weather forecast for two weeks ahead were
used as input for the model. This method was closer to a real application
and potentially could be paired with non-destructive techniques to de-
termine the current ripening stage of the crop.
Interestingly, it was found that environmental temperature affects
not only fruit growth but also the near-infrared reﬂectance spectrum
in a non-linear way (Ma et al., 2007). Kawano et al. (1995) compensated
for the surface temperature effect by developing a combined MLR
model, which covered a variety of temperatures ranging between 21
and 31C. On the other hand, Peirs et al. (2003) compared a global cali-
bration model that covers a wide temperature range and calibration
models for each temperature range. Both methods performed well for
the ripeness prediction of apples, but for practical purposes, the global
calibration model was preferred.
Finally, Yang (2011) recorded the HSI spectra of tomatoes at differ-
ent growing stages, and the PLS model was applied to predict the grow-
ing stage of a target crop with the best correlation coefﬁcient being 0.89.
It was also observed that the key wavelengths were in the visible and in-
frared regions (400–2100 nm) (Yang, 2011). A similar method was em-
ployed to predict the number of days until the commercial harvest of
apple (Peirs et al., 2001). The calibration model was built with eight cul-
tivars and a good correlation (R2 = 0.93) was found for the spectral
range between 380 nm and 2000 nm.
7. Perspectives
Despite the CNN models proving to work particularly effectively and
efﬁciently for fruit ripeness classiﬁcation, there is still room for improve-
ment. First, the accuracy of the task might be boosted by using new
state-of-the-art models such as Transformers (Vaswani et al., 2017).
These were initially devised for neural machine translation in the ﬁeld
of Natural Language Processing (NLP) but showed outstanding results
in many other text-related tasks (e.g., (Khandelwal et al., 2019; Sun
et al., 2019)). More recently, Transformer-based architectures were em-
ployed with little tuning to visual tasks, both image- (Han et al., 2023)
and video-based (Neimark et al., 2021). Investigating the use of Trans-
formers in the domain of fruit ripeness classiﬁcation from a visual per-
spective could improve the accuracy and yield more robust models.
Furthermore, the visual Transformer could be mixed with CNNs in dif-
ferent ways, the simplest interaction being late averaging of the output.
On the other hand, insisting on the CNNs path would require reﬁning
their optimization, i.e., ﬁnding the optimal number of layers and ﬁlters
for the speciﬁc problem to be solved, as well as determining the param-
eters and hyperparameters of the model. This remains a relevant prob-
lem commonly solved by trial and error until the best conﬁguration is
achieved, which is especially time-consuming for very deep models.
Also, we warn against a gap in the literature on fruit ripeness classiﬁca-
tion when it comes to measuring inference time. Low inference time is a
hard requirement for developing real-time applications, which are
required to perform in situ inference.
An obvious limitation to both the CNN- and Transformer-based ap-
proaches is the size of the available datasets. To solve a task using DL
methods the dataset must be sufﬁciently large and well-labeled to ad-
dress underﬁtting and overﬁtting problems. Therefore, the process of
preparing the dataset is one of the activities that require more time
and effort. Although there is a wide variety of publicly available datasets,
not all researchers release their data. For this reason, the reproducibility
of some studies is not entirely guaranteed. In addition, the datasets are
often collected with a very speciﬁc task in mind, which limits the infer-
ence potential of the trained model. It is imperative that further studies
release their code and datasets so that new models can be tested against
a larger number of benchmarks to get a better overview of the chal-
lenges and achievements of the task.
On another note, developing AI-based models for food quality as-
sessment applications means working in a high stake decision-making
M. Rizzo, M. Marcuzzo, A. Zangari et al.
Artiﬁcial Intelligence in Agriculture 7 (2023) 44–57
54

environment. Thus, one may want to investigate and compare the inter-
pretability of the models used for fruit image processing (be they tradi-
tional ML models, CNNs, or Transformers) to provide explanations for
both model developers and end users. In the ﬁrst stage, one could aim
for data debugging. This means analyzing the distribution of the data
points and their features and searching for discrepancies. For example,
a trivial check would require assessing whether the dataset is balanced
or not. In the latter case, several methods can be used to make it bal-
anced (e.g., (Chawla et al., 2002)). Second, one could statistically analyze
the output distribution of the models, looking, for instance, for outliers.
The output of this analysis itself could tell much about what the model
has been learning and whether this is correct. On the other hand, it
might be hard to make strong inferences based on it (e.g., justify the
presence of outliers). Finally, sophisticated interpretability techniques
exist for off-the-shelf usage (see Carvalho et al. (2019) for a survey).
Albeit with different levels of reliability, these may provide interesting
information about black-box models.
8. Conclusions
This review offers a wide panoramic of the fruit ripeness classiﬁca-
tion task. More speciﬁcally, we offer a formal statement of the problem
and a summary of the biological processes involved in fruit ripening.
Then, we discuss the different types of descriptors that can be used to
represent a fruit item: color, light spectrum, ﬂuorescence, and spectral
imaging. The featurized items can thus be processed by either statistical,
ML, or DL models. When using former types it is important to select and
possibly generate the right features, i.e., the most discriminative. On the
other hand, DL models do not require feature engineering, which is a
labor-intensive and error-prone process. Yet, they still achieve state-
of-the-art accuracy for a variety of fruit ripeness classiﬁcation tasks.
Thus, it seems that DL models, especially pretrained and then ﬁne-
tuned models, are the most promising approach to fruit ripeness classi-
ﬁcation. However, we warn against their inner opacity: it is hard for
humans to understand how a DL model made a speciﬁc prediction. Con-
sidering that ripeness is bound to food quality and safety, it is of the ut-
most importance to consider a trade-off between accuracy and
interpretability. Hence, future research directions may want to investi-
gate models that are more transparent. In particular, Transformer
models for images are an emerging ﬁeld that promises higher accuracy
and higher interpretability by allowing researchers to examine the at-
tention heads that compose the model. Even if some work debunked
the use of attention for producing explanations (Jain and Wallace,
2019; Wiegreffe and Pinter, 2019; Serrano and Smith, 2019), whether
it carries some intelligible information is still an open question in the
eXplainable AI (XAI) community.
Declaration of Competing Interest
The authors declare the following ﬁnancial interests/personal rela-
tionships which may be considered as potential competing interests:
Matteo Rizzo reports ﬁnancial support was provided by Veneto Agricul-
ture. Matteo Rizzo reports a relationship with Veneto Agriculture that
includes: funding grants.
Acknowledgments
This paper was funded by Veneto Agricoltura within the scope of the
project “Guaranteeing the continuity of the agri-food chain: the digitiza-
tion of wholesale markets”.
References
Abdelhamid, M.A., Sudnik, Y., Alshinayyin, H.J., Shaaban, F., 2021. Nondestructive method
for monitoring tomato ripening based on chlorophyll ﬂuorescence induction. J. Agric.
Eng. Res. 52.
Adamiak, M., . Lemons Quality Control Dataset. URL https://github.com/softwaremill/
lemon-dataset.
Aghilinategh, N., Dalvand, M.J., Anvar, A., 2020. Detection of ripeness grades of berries
using an electronic nose. Food Sci. Nutri. 8, 4919–4928 URL: https://doi.org/
10.1002/fsn3.1788.
Altaheri, H., Alsulaiman, M., Muhammad, G., 2019. Date fruit classiﬁcation for robotic har-
vesting
in
a
natural
environment
using
deep
learning.
IEEE
Access
7,
117115–117133.. https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2936536. conference Name:
IEEE Access.
Anzalone, G.C., Glover, A.G., Pearce, J.M., 2013. Open-source colorimeter. Sensors 13,
5338–5346.
Bahdanau, D., Cho, K., Bengio, Y., 2015. Neural machine translation by jointly learning to
align and translate. 3rd International Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR
2015 Place: San Diego, CA, USA.
Baietto, M., Wilson, A.D., 2015. Electronic-nose applications for fruit identiﬁcation, ripe-
ness and quality grading. Sensors 15, 899–931.
Bakar, B., Ishak, A., Shamsudin, R., Hasan, W.W., 2013. Ripeness level classiﬁcation for
pineapple using rgb and hsi color map. J. Theor. Appl. Inf. Technol. 57, 587–593.
Bargoti, S., Underwood, J., 2017. Deep fruit detection in orchards. 2017 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA). IEEE Press , pp. 3626–3633 URL:
https://doi.org/10.1109/ICRA.2017.7989417.
Bauriegel, E., Giebel, A., Geyer, M., Schmidt, U., Herppich, W.B., 2011. Early detection of fu-
sarium infection in wheat using hyper-spectral imaging. Comput. Electron. Agric. 75,
304–312 Publisher: Elsevier BV.
Bodria, L., Fiala, M., Guidetti, R., Oberti, R., 2004. Optical techniques to estimate the ripe-
ness of red-pigmented fruits. Trans. ASAE 47, 815–820.
Bonora, E., Vidoni, S., Noferini, M., Costa, G., Lopresti, J., Stefanelli, D., 2015. The combined
use of the index of absorbance difference and the reconstruction model planttoon Â®
to characterize peach and nectarine training systems. Acta Hortic. 1084, 361–366.
Bulanon, D., Burks, T., Alchanatis, V., 2011. Visible and Thermal Images for Fruit Detection.
pp. 944–954.
Camps, C., Christen, D., 2009. Non-destructive assessment of apricot fruit quality by por-
table visible-near infrared spectroscopy. LWT Food Sci. Technol. 42, 1125–1131.
Carvalho, D.V., Pereira, E.M., Cardoso, J.S., 2019. Machine learning interpretability: A sur-
vey on methods and metrics. Electronics (Basel) 8, 832 Publisher: MDPI AG.
Castro, W., Oblitas, J., De-La-Torre, M., Cotrina, C., Bazan, K., Avila-George, H., 2019. Clas-
siﬁcation of cape gooseberry fruit according to its level of ripeness using machine
learning techniques and different color spaces. IEEE ACCESS 7, 27389–27400.
https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2898223 publisher: Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers (IEEE).
Centner, V., Massart, D.L., Noord, O.E., Jong, S., Vandeginste, B.M., Sterna, C., 1996. Elimina-
tion of uninformative variables for multivariate calibration. Anal. Chem. 68,
3851–3858.
Chawla, N.V., Bowyer, K.W., Hall, L.O., Kegelmeyer, W.P., 2002. SMOTE: synthetic minority
over-sampling technique. jair 16, 321–357.
Choo, W.S., 2019. Fruit pigment changes during ripening. In: Melton, L., Shahidi, F.,
Varelis, P. (Eds.), Encyclopedia of Food Chemistry. Academic Press, Oxford,
pp. 117–123 https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-08-100596-5.21656-9.
Costa, G., Noferini, M., Fiori, G., Ziosi, V., Berthod, N., Rossier, J., 2010. Establishment of the
optimal harvest time in apricot (‘orangered’ and ‘bergarouge’) by means of a new
index based on vis spectroscopy. Acta Hortic. 533–539.
Das, A.J., Wahi, A., Kothari, I., Raskar, R., 2016. Ultra-portable, wireless smartphone spec-
trometer for rapid, non-destructive testing of fruit ripeness. Sci. Rep. 6, 32504.
El-Bendary, N., El Hariri, E., Hassanien, A.E., Badr, A., 2015. Using machine learning tech-
niques for evaluating tomato ripeness. Expert Syst. Appl. 42, 1892–1905. https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2014.09.057.
ElMasry, G.M., Nakauchi, S., 2016. Image analysis operations applied to hyperspectral im-
ages for non-invasive sensing of food quality – a comprehensive review. Biosyst. Eng.
142, 53–82.
ElMasry, G., Wang, N., ElSayed, A., Ngadi, M., 2007. Hyperspectral imaging for nondestruc-
tive determination of some quality attributes for strawberry. J. Food Eng. 81, 98–107
Publisher: Elsevier BV.
Ferrer, A., Remon, S., Negueruela, A.I., Oria, R., 2005. Changes during the ripening of the
very late season spanish peach cultivar calanda: feasibility of using cielab coordinates
as maturity indices. Sci. Hortic. 105, 435–446.
Gao, Z., Shao, Y., Xuan, G., Wang, Y., Liu, Y., Han, X., 2020. Real-time hyperspectral imaging
for the in-ﬁeld estimation of strawberry ripeness with deep learning. Artif. Intell.
Agric. 4, 31–38 Publisher: Elsevier BV.
Garillos-Manliguez, C.A., Chiang, J.Y., 2021. Multimodal deep learning and visible-light
and hyperspectral imaging for fruit maturity estimation. Sensors 21.
Ghozlen, N.B., Cerovic, Z.G., Germain, C., Toutain, S., Latouche, G., 2010. Non-destructive
optical monitoring of grape maturation by proximal sensing. Sensors 10,
10040–10068.
Goel, N., Sehgal, P., 2015. Fuzzy classiﬁcation of pre-harvest tomatoes for ripeness estima-
tion – an approach based on automatic rule learning using decision tree. Appl. Soft
Comput. 36, 45–56 Publisher: Elsevier BV.
Gomez, A.H., He, Y., Pereira, A.G., 2006. Non-destructive measurement of acidity, soluble
solids and ﬁrmness of satsuma mandarin using vis/nirspectroscopy techniques.
J. Food Eng. 77, 313–319 Publisher: Progress on Bioproducts Processing and Food
Safety.
Gowda, I., Huddar, A., 2001. Studies on ripening changes in mango (Mangifera indica L.)
fruits. J. Food Sci. Technol. Mysore 38, 135–137.
Halstead, M., McCool, C., Denman, S., Perez, T., Fookes, C., 2018. Fruit quantity and ripe-
ness estimation using a robotic vision system. IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett. 3,
2995–3002. https://doi.org/10.1109/LRA.2018.2849514 conference Name: IEEE Ro-
botics and Automation Letters.
M. Rizzo, M. Marcuzzo, A. Zangari et al.
Artiﬁcial Intelligence in Agriculture 7 (2023) 44–57
55

Han, K., Wang, Y., Chen, H., Chen, X., Guo, J., Liu, Z., Tang, Y., Xiao, A., Xu, C., Xu, Y., Yang, Z.,
Zhang, Y., Tao, D., 2023. A survey on vision transformer. IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal.
Mach. Intell. 45, 87–110. https://doi.org/10.1109/TPAMI.2022.3152247 conference
Name: IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence.
Häni, N., Roy, P., Isler, V., 2019. Minneapple: a benchmark dataset for apple detection and
segmentation. CoRR abs/1909.06441. URL: http://arxiv.org/abs/1909.06441. arXiv:
1909.06441.
Hartmann, A., Czauderna, T., Hoffmann, R., Stein, N., Schreiber, F., 2011. HTPheno: an
image analysis pipeline for high-throughput plant phenotyping. BMC Bioinform. 12,
148.
Hazir, M.H.M., Shariff, A.R.M., Amiruddin, M.D., Ramli, A.R., Saripan, M.I., 2012. Oil palm
bunch ripeness classiﬁcation using ﬂuorescence technique. J. Food Eng. 113, 534–540.
He, K., Gkioxari, G., Dollar, P., Girshick, R., 2017. Mask R-CNN. 2017 IEEE International
Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV), IEEE, pp. 2980–2988 Event-place: Venice.
Herman, H., Susanto, A., Cenggoro, T.W., Suharjito, S., Pardamean, B., 2020. Oil palm fruit
image ripeness classiﬁcation with computer vision using deep learning and visual at-
tention. J. Telecommun. Electron. Comput. Eng. (JTEC) 12, 21–27.
Hobson, G.E., Adams, P., Dixon, T.J., 1983. Assessing the colour of tomato fruit during rip-
ening. J. Sci. Food Agric. 34, 286–292 URL: https://doi.org/10.1002/jsfa.2740340312
publisher: Wiley.
Honkavaara, E., Kaivosoja, J., Makynen, J., Pellikka, I., Pesonen, L., Saari, H., Salo, H., Hakala,
T., Marklelin, L., Rosnell, T., 2012. Hyperspectral reﬂectance signatures and point
clouds for precision agriculture by light weight uav imaging system. ISPRS Annals
of the Photogrammetry, Remote Sensing and Spatial Information Sciences. I-7,
pp. 353–358.
Hou, S., Feng, Y., Wang, Z., 2017. Vegfru: a domain-speciﬁc dataset for ﬁne-grained visual
categorization. 2017 IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV),
pp. 541–549 https://doi.org/10.1109/ICCV.2017.66.
Huang, C.H., He, J., Austin, E., Seto, E., Novosselov, I., 2021. Assessing the value of complex
refractive index and particle density for calibration of low-cost particle matter sensor
for size-resolved particle count and PM2.5 measurements. PLoS One 16. https://doi.
org/10.1371/journal.pone.0259745 e0259745. publisher: Public Library of Science.
Hussain, I., Wu, W.L., Hua, H.Q., Hussain, N., 2019. Intra-class recognition of fruits using
dcnn for commercial trace back-system. Proceedings of the 2019 4th International
Conference on Multimedia Systems and Signal Processing, Association for Computing
Machinery, New York, NY, USA, pp. 194–199 https://doi.org/10.1145/3330393.
3330401.
Jain, S., Wallace, B.C., 2019. Attention is not explanation. Proceedings of the 2019 Confer-
ence of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
Human Language Technologies, Association for Computational Linguistics, Minneap-
olis, Minnesota , pp. 3543–3556 URL: https://aclanthology.org/N19-1357. 10.18653/
v1/N19-1357.
Jaradat, A.A., Zaid, A., 2004. Quality traits of date palm fruits in a center of origin and cen-
ter of diversity. Int. J. Food Agric. Environ. 2, 208–217.
Jha, S.N., Kingsly, A.R.P., Chopra, S., 2006. Non-destructive determination of ﬁrmness and
yellowness of mango during growth and storage using visual spectroscopy. Biosyst.
Eng. 94, 397–402 Publisher: Elsevier BV.
Jha, S.N., Chopra, S., Kingsly, A.R.P., 2007. Modeling of color values for nondestructive eval-
uation of maturity of mango. J. Food Eng. 78, 22–26 Publisher: Elsevier BV.
Kawano, S., Abe, H., Iwamoto, M., 1995. Development of a calibration equation with tem-
perature compensation for determining the brix value in intact peaches. J. Near Infra-
red Spectrosc. 3, 211–218 URL: https://opg.optica.org/jnirs/abstract.cfm?uri=jnirs-3-
4-211 publisher: SAGE Publishing.
Khandelwal, U., Clark, K., Jurafsky, D., Kaiser, L., 2019. Sample Efﬁcient Text Summariza-
tion Using a Single Pre-Trained Transformer.
Klasson, M., Zhang, C., Kjellström, H., 2019. A hierarchical grocery store image dataset
with visual and semantic labels. 2019 IEEE Winter Conference on Applications of
Computer Vision (WACV), pp. 491–500 https://doi.org/10.1109/WACV.2019.00058.
Kodors, S., Lacis, G., Sokolova, O., Zhukov, V., Apeinans, I., Bartulsons, T., 2021a. Apple scab
detection using cnn and transfer learning. Agron. Res. 19, 507–519. https://doi.org/
10.15159/AR.21.045.
Kodors, S., Lacis, G., Sokolova, O., Zhukov, V., Apeinans, I., Bartulsons, T., 2021b. Apples in-
fected by scab dataset. URL: kaggle.com/datasets/projectlzp201910094/applescabfds.
Kodors, S., Lacis, G., Sokolova, O., Zhukov, V., Apeinans, I., Bartulsons, T., 2021c. Leaves of
apples infected by scab dataset. URL: kaggle.com/datasets/projectlzp201910094/
applescablds.
Koklu, M., Kursun, R., Taspinar, Y.S., Cinar, I., 2021a. Classiﬁcation of date fruits into ge-
netic varieties using image analysis. Math. Probl. Eng. 2021, 4793293 URL: https://
doi.org/10.1155/2021/4793293.
Koklu, M., Kursun, R., Taspinar, Y.S., Cinar, I., 2021b. Date Image Dataset. URL https://
www.muratkoklu.com/datasets/.
Li, M., Slaughter, D.C., Thompson, J.F., 1997. Optical chlorophyll sensing system for banana
ripening. Postharvest Biol. Technol. 12, 273–283.
Li, H., Lee, W.S., Wang, K., 2014. Identifying blueberry fruit of different growth stages
using natural outdoor color images. Comput. Electron. Agric. 106, 91–101 Publisher:
Elsevier BV.
Li, B., Lecourt, J., Bishop, G., 2018. Advances in non-destructive early assessment of fruit
ripeness towards deﬁning optimal time of harvest and yield prediction—a review.
Plants 7, 3 URL: https://www.mdpi.com/2223-7747/7/1/3. https://doi.org/10.3390/
plants7010003 number: 1 Publisher: Multidisciplinary Digital Publishing Institute.
Liming, X., Yanchao, Z., 2010. Automated strawberry grading system based on image pro-
cessing. Comput. Electron. Agric. 71, S32–S39. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.
2009.09.013.
Liu, C., Liu, W., Chen, W., Yang, J., Zheng, L., 2015. Feasibility in multispectral imaging for
predicting the content of bioactive compounds in intact tomato fruit. Food Chem.
173, 482–488. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodchem.2014.10.052.
Llobet, E., Hines, E.L., Gardner, J.W., Franco, S., 1999. Non-destructive banana ripeness de-
termination using a neural network-based electronic nose. Meas. Sci. Technol. 10,
538.
Loomis, R.S., Williams, W.A., 1963. Maximum crop productivity: An extimate 1. Crop Sci.
3, 67–72 Publisher: Wiley.
Lu, R., Peng, Y., 2006. Hyperspectral scattering for assessing Peach Fruit Firmness. Biosyst.
Eng. 93, 161–171 Publisher: Elsevier BV.
Lurie, S., Friedman, H., Weksler, A., Dagar, A., Zerbini, P.E., 2013. Maturity assessment at
harvest and prediction of softening in an early and late season melting peach. Post-
harvest Biol. Technol. 76, 10–16.
Ma, G., Fu, X.P., Zhou, Y., Ying, Y.B., Xu, H.R., Xie, L.J., Lin, T., 2007. Nondestructive sugar
content determination of peaches by using near infrared spectroscopy technique.
Guang Pu Xue Yu Guang Pu Fen Xi 27, 907–910.
Mahesh, S., Jayas, D.S., Paliwal, J., White, N.D.G., 2015a. Comparison of partial least squares
regression (PLSR) and principal components regression (PCR) methods for protein
and hardness predictions using the near-infrared (NIR) hyperspectral images of
bulk samples of Canadian wheat. Food Bioprocess Technol. 8, 31–40. https://doi.
org/10.1007/s11947-014-1381-z.
Mahesh, S., Jayas, D.S., Paliwal, J., White, N.D.G., 2015b. Hyperspectral imaging to classify
and monitor quality of agricultural materials. J. Stored Prod. Res. 61, 17–26 Publisher:
Elsevier BV.
Makky, M., Soni, P., 2014. In situ quality assessment of intact oil palm fresh fruit bunches
using rapid portable non-contact and non-destructive approach. J. Food Eng. 120,
248–259 Publisher: Elsevier BV.
Mangas, J.J., Moreno, J., Picinelli, A., Blanco, D., 1998. Characterization of cider apple fruits
according to their degree of ripening. A chemometric approach. J. Agric. Food Chem.
46, 4174–4178. https://doi.org/10.1021/jf980078n publisher: American Chemical So-
ciety.
Matveyeva, T.A., Sarimov, R.M., Simakin, A.V., Astashev, M.E., Burmistrov, D.E., Lednev,
V.N., Sdvizhenskii, P.A., Grishin, M.Y., Pershin, S.M., Chilingaryan, N.O., Semenova,
N.A., Dorokhov, A.S., Gudkov, S.V., 2022. Using ﬂuorescence spectroscopy to detect
rot in fruit and vegetable crops. Appl. Sci. 12, 3391 URL: https://www.mdpi.com/
2076-3417/12/7/3391. https://doi.org/10.3390/app12073391 number: 7 Publisher:
Multidisciplinary Digital Publishing Institute.
Mazen, F.M.A., Nashat, A.A., 2019. Ripeness classiﬁcation of bananas using an artiﬁcial
neural network. Arab. J. Sci. Eng. 44, 6901–6910 Publisher: Springer Science and Busi-
ness Media LLC.
McGlone, V.A., Fraser, D.G., Jordan, R.B., Künnemeyer, R., 2003. Internal quality assessment
of mandarin fruit by vis/NIR spectroscopy. J. Near Infrared Spectrosc. 11, 323–332
Publisher: SAGE Publications.
Medlicott, A.P., Reynolds, S.B., Thompson, A.K., 1986. Effects of temperature on the ripen-
ing of mango fruit (mangifera indica l. var. tommy atkins). J. Sci. Food Agric. 37,
469–474.
Mendoza, F., Aguilera, J., 2004. Application of image analysis for classiﬁcation of ripening
bananas. J. Food Sci. 69, E471–E477. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2621.2004.
tb09932.x _eprint: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdf/10.1111/j.1365-2621.
2004.tb09932.x.
Mendoza, F., Lu, R., Ariana, D., Cen, H., Bailey, B., 2011. Integrated spectral and image anal-
ysis of hyperspectral scattering data for prediction of apple fruit ﬁrmness and soluble
solids content. Postharvest Biol. Technol. 62, 149–160.
Mercado-Silva, E., Benito-Bautista, P., de los Angeles Garcı’a-Velasco, M., 1998. Fruit devel-
opment, harvest index and ripening changes of guavas produced in Central Mexico.
Postharvest Biol. Technol. 13, 143–150. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0925-5214(98)
00003-9.
Miraei Ashtiani, S.H., Javanmardi, S., Jahanbanifard, M., Martynenko, A., Verbeek, F.J., 2021.
Detection of mulberry ripeness stages using deep learning models. IEEE Access 9,
100380–100394. https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3096550 conference Name:
IEEE Access.
Mollazade, K., Omid, M., Tab, F.A., Mohtasebi, S.S., 2012. Principles and applications of
light backscattering imaging in quality evaluation of agro-food products: a review.
Food Bioprocess Technol. 5, 1465–1485 Publisher: Springer Science and Business
Media LLC.
Muhua, L., Peng, F., Renfa, C., 2007. Non-destructive estimation peach ssc and ﬁrmness by
mutispectral reﬂectance imaging. N. Z. J. Agric. Res. 50, 601–608.
Munawar, A.A., Kusumiyati, Wahyuni, D., 2019. Near infrared spectroscopic data for rapid
and simultaneous prediction of quality attributes in intact mango fruits. Data Brief 27,
104789.
Munoz, C., Avila, J., Salvo, S., Huircan, J.I., 2012. Prediction of harvest start date in highbush
blueberry using time series regression models with correlated errors. Sci. Hortic Rev.
138, 165–170.
Mureşan, H., Oltean, M., 2018. Fruit recognition from images using deep learning. Acta
Universitatis Sapientiae Informatica 10, 26–42. https://doi.org/10.2478/ausi-2018-
0002.
Nagata, M., Tallada, J., Ishino, F., Gejima, Y., Kai, S., 2004. Estimation of tomato ripening
stages using three color models. Bull. Faculty Agric. Miyazaki Univ. 50, 65–72.
Nambi, E., Kulandasamy, T., Jesudas, M., 2015. Scientiﬁc classiﬁcation of ripening period
and development of colourgrade chart for indian mangoes (mangifera indica l.)
usingmultivariate cluster analysis, Scientia Horticulturae.
Neimark, D., Bar, O., Zohar, M., Asselmann, D., 2021. Video transformer network. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2102.00719.
Ni, X., Li, C., Jiang, H., Takeda, F., 2020. Deep learning image segmentation and extraction
of blueberry fruit traits associated with harvestability and yield. Hortic Res. 7, 110.
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41438-020-0323-3.
Olarewaju, O.O., Bertling, I., Magwaza, L.S., 2016a. Non-destructive evaluation of avocado
fruit maturity using near infrared spectroscopy and PLS regression models. Sci. Hortic.
199, 229–236 Publisher: Elsevier BV.
M. Rizzo, M. Marcuzzo, A. Zangari et al.
Artiﬁcial Intelligence in Agriculture 7 (2023) 44–57
56

Olarewaju, O.O., Bertling, I., Magwaza, L.S., 2016b. Non-destructive evaluation of avocado
fruit maturity using near infrared spectroscopy and PLS regression models. Sci. Hortic
Rev. 199, 229–236.
Olmo, M., Nadas, A., Garcia, J.M., 2000. Nondestructive methods to evaluate maturity level
of oranges. J. Food Sci. 65, 365–369 Publisher: Wiley.
Opara, L.U., Al-Said, F.A., Al-Abri, A., 2007. Assessment of what the consumer values in
fresh fruit quality: case study of Oman. N. Z. J. Crop. Hortic. Sci. 35, 235–243 Pub-
lisher: Informa UK Limited.
Ozkan, I.A., Koklu, M., Saraçoğlu, R., 2021. Classiﬁcation of pistachio species using im-
proved k-nn classiﬁer. Prog. Nutr. 23, e2021044. https://doi.org/10.23751/pn.v23i2.
9686.
Ozkan, I.A., Koklu, M., Saraçoğlu, R., 2022. Pistachio Image Dataset. URL https://www.
muratkoklu.com/datasets/.
Pardede, J., Husada, M.G., Hermana, A.N., Rumapea, S.A., 2019. Fruit ripeness based on
RGB, HSV, HSL, L*a*b* color feature using SVM. 2019 International Conference of
Computer Science and Information Technology (ICoSNIKOM). 1–5. IEEE. https://doi.
org/10.1109/ICoSNIKOM48755.2019.9111486.
Peirs, A., Lammertyn, J., Ooms, K., NicolaÄ, B.M., 2001. Prediction of the optimal picking
date of different apple cultivars by means of VIS/NIR-spectroscopy. Postharvest Biol.
Technol. 21, 189–199.
Peirs, A., Scheerlinck, N., Nicolaı, B.M., 2003. Temperature compensation for near infrared
reﬂectance measurement of apple fruit soluble solids contents. Postharvest Biol.
Technol. 30, 233–248.
Peng, Y., Lu, R., 2008. Analysis of spatially resolved hyperspectral scattering images for
assessing apple fruit ﬁrmness and soluble solids content. Postharvest Biol. Technol.
48, 52–62.. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.postharvbio.2007.09.019. publisher: Elsevier BV.
Prasanna, V., 2007. Fruit ripening phenomena–an overview. Crit. Rev. Food Sci. Nutr. 47,
1–19.
Qin, J., Lu, R., Peng, Y., 2009. Prediction of apple internal quality using spectral absorption
and scattering properties. Trans. ASABE 52 499–486.
Qiu, Q., Shi, K., Qiao, X.J., Jiang, K., 2016. Determining the dominant environmental param-
eters for greenhouse tomato seedling growth modeling using canonical correlation
analysis. IFAC-PapersOnLine 49, 387–391. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ifacol.2016.10.
071.
Ragni, L., Cevoli, C., Berardinelli, A., Silaghi, F.A., 2012. Non-destructive internal quality as-
sessment of “Hayward” kiwifruit by waveguide spectroscopy. J. Food Eng. 109, 32–37.
Rajkumar, P., Wang, N., EImasry, G., Raghavan, G.S.V., Gariepy, Y., 2012. Studies on banana
fruit quality and maturity stages using hyperspectral imaging. J. Food Eng. 108,
194–200 Publisher: Elsevier BV.
Randhawa, H.S., Sharma, S., Student, C.S.E., 2014. A survey of computer vision and soft
computing techniques for ripeness grading of fruits. J. Adv. Comput. Commun.
Technol. 2.
Ren, S., He, K., Girshick, R., Sun, J., R-Cnn, F., 2015. Towards real-time object detection with
region proposal networks. In: Cortes, C., Lawrence, N., Lee, D., Sugiyama, M., Garnett,
R. (Eds.), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems. vol. 28. Curran Associ-
ates, Inc. 14 6 14875 45 028 21 38046–.
Rinnan, A., van den Berg, F., Engelsen, S.B., 2009. Review of the most common pre-
processing techniques for near-infrared spectra. Trends Anal. Chem. 28, 1201–1222
Publisher: Elsevier BV.
Rivero Mesa, A., Chiang, J., 2021. Non-invasive grading system for Banana tiers using RGB
imaging and deep learning. 2021 7th International Conference on Computing and Ar-
tiﬁcial Intelligence. Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA,
pp. 113–118 Event-place: Tianjin, China.
Royer, C.A., 1995. Fluorescence spectroscopy, methods. Mol. Biol. 40, 65–89.
Sa, I., Ge, Z., Dayoub, F., Upcroft, B., Perez, T., McCool, C., 2016. DeepFruits: a fruit detection
system using deep neural networks. Sensors 16, 1222. https://www.mdpi.com/1424-
8220/16/8/1222. https://doi.org/10.3390/s16081222 number: 8 Publisher: Multidis-
ciplinary Digital Publishing Institute.
Sanchez, M.T., Haba, M.J., Benıtez-Lopez, M., Fernandez-Novales, J., Garrido-Varo, A.,
Perez-Marın, D., 2012. Non-destructive characterization and quality control of intact
strawberries based on nir spectral data. J. Food Eng. 110, 102–108.
Saranwong, I., Sornsrivichai, J., Kawano, S., 2003. On-tree evaluation of harvesting quality
of mango fruit using a hand-held NIR instrument. J. Near Infrared Spectrosc. 11,
283–293 Publisher: SAGE Publications.
Saranya, N., Srinivasan, K., Kumar, S.K.P., 2022. Banana ripeness stage identiﬁcation: a
deep learning approach. J. Ambient. Intell. Humaniz. Comput. 13, 4033–4039.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s12652-021-03267-w publisher: Springer Science and Busi-
ness Media LLC.
Satpute, M.R., Jagdale, S.M., 2016. Color, size, volume, shape and texture feature extraction
techniques for fruits: a review. Int. Res. J. Eng. Technol 3, 703–708.
Septiarini, A., Hamdani, H., Hatta, H.R., Anwar, K., 2019. Automatic image segmentation of
oil palm fruits by applying the contour-based approach. Sci. Hortic. 261, 108939.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scienta.2019.108939. publisher: Elsevier BV.
Serrano, S., Smith, N.A., 2019. Is attention interpretable? Proceedings of the 57th Annual
Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics. Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics, Stroudsburg, PA, USA, pp. 2931–2951 Event-place: Florence, Italy
Shewfelt, R.L., Thai, C.N., Davis, J.W., 1988. Prediction of changes in color of tomatoes dur-
ing ripening at different constant temperatures. J. Food Sci. 53, 1433–1437 Publisher:
Wiley.
Shiddiq, M., Herman, H., Arief, D.S., Fitra, E., Husein, I.R., Ningsih, S.A., 2022. Wavelength
selection of multispectral imaging for oil palm fresh fruit ripeness classiﬁcation.
Appl. Opt. 61, 5289–5298 URL: https://opg.optica.org/ao/abstract.cfm?uri=ao-61-
17-5289. https://doi.org/10.1364/AO.450384 publisher: Optica Publishing Group.
Silalahi, D.D., Reano, C.E., Lansigan, F.P., Panopio, R.G., Bantayan, N.C., 2016. Using genetic
algorithm neural network on near infrared spectral data for ripeness grading of oil
palm (elaeis guineensis jacq.) fresh fruit. Inf. Process. Agric. 3, 252–261.
Song, J., Deng, W., Beaudry, R.M., Armstrong, P.R., 1997. Changes in chlorophyll ﬂuores-
cence of apple fruit during maturation, ripening, and senescence. HortScience 32,
891–896. https://doi.org/10.21273/HORTSCI.32.5.891 publisher: American Society
for Horticultural Science.
Speirs, J., Lee, E., Brady, C.J., Robertson, J., McGlasson, W.B., 1990. Endopolygalacturonase:
messenger RNA, enzyme and softening in the ripening fruit of a range of tomato ge-
notypes. J. Plant Physiol. 135, 576–582. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0176-1617(11)
80639-5.
Su, Z., Zhang, C., Yan, T., Zhu, J., Zeng, Y., Lu, X., Gao, P., Feng, L., He, L., Fan, L., 2021. Appli-
cation of hyperspectral imaging for maturity and soluble solids content determina-
tion of strawberry with deep learning approaches. Front. Plant Sci. 12. https://doi.
org/10.3389/fpls.2021.736334.
Suharjito, Elwirehardja, G.N., Prayoga, J.S., 2021. Oil palm fresh fruit bunch ripeness clas-
siﬁcation on mobile devices using deep learning approaches. Comput. Electron. Agric.
188, 106359 Publisher: Elsevier BV.
Sun, C., Qiu, X., Xu, Y., Huang, X., 2019. How to ﬁne-tune BERT for text classiﬁcation? In:
Sun, M., Huang, X., Ji, H., Liu, Z., Liu, Y. (Eds.), Chinese Computational Linguistics.
Springer International Publishing, Cham, pp. 194–206
Sural, S., Qian, G., Pramanik, S., 2003. Segmentation and histogram generation using the
HSV color space for image retrieval. Proceedings. International Conference on
Image Processing, IEEE Event-place: Rochester, NY, USA.
Tamura, H., Mori, S., Yamawaki, T., 1978. Textural features corresponding to visual per-
ception. IEEE Trans. Syst. Man Cybern 8, 460–473 Publisher: Institute of Electrical
and Electronics Engineers (IEEE).
Teng, L., Cheng, Z., Chen, X., Lai, L., 2012. Study on simulation models of tomato fruit qual-
ity related to cultivation environmental factors. Acta Ecol. Sin. 32, 111–116.
Tomana, T., Utsunomiya, N., Kataoka, I., 1979. The effect of environmental temperatures
on fruit ripening on the tree. J. Japan. Soc. Hotic. Sci. 48, 261–266.
Ukirade, N.S., 2014. Color grading system for evaluating tomato maturity. Int. J. Res.
Manag. Sci. Technol. 2, 41–45.
Uwadaira, Y., Sekiyama, Y., Ikehata, A., 2018. An examination of the principle of non-
destructive ﬂesh ﬁrmness measurement of peach fruit by using VIS-NIR spectroscopy.
Heliyon 4, e00531. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2018.e00531.
Vaswani, A., Shazeer, N., Parmar, N., Uszkoreit, J., Jones, L., Gomez, A.N., Kaiser, L.,
Polosukhin, I., 2017. Attention is all you need. Proceedings of the 31st International
Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems. Curran Associates Inc., Red
Hook, NY, USA, pp. 6000–6010.
Walsh, K.B., Blasco, J., Zude-Sasse, M., Sun, X., 2020. Visible-NIR ‘point’ spectroscopy in
postharvest fruit and vegetable assessment: the science behind three decades of
commercial use. Postharvest Biol. Technol. 168, 111246.
Wang, S., Huang, M., Zhu, Q., 2012. Model fusion for prediction of apple ﬁrmness using
hyperspectral scattering image. Comput. Electron. Agric. 80, 1–7 Publisher: Elsevier
BV.
Wang, H., Peng, J., Xie, C., Bao, Y., He, Y., 2015. Fruit quality evaluation using spectroscopy
technology: a review. Sensors 15, 11889–11927.
Wankhade, M., Hore, U.W., 2021. A survey on fruit ripeness classiﬁcation based on image
processing with machine learning. Int. J. Adv. Res. Sci. Commun. Technol., 73–78 URL:
http://ijarsct.co.in/may1.html. 10.48175/IJARSCT-1097.
Wei, X., Liu, F., Qiu, Z., Shao, Y., He, Y., 2014. Ripeness classiﬁcation of astringent persim-
mon using hyperspectral imaging technique. Food Bioprocess Technol. 7, 1371–1380
Publisher: Springer Science and Business Media LLC.
Wiegreffe, S., Pinter, Y., 2019. Attention is not not explanation. Proceedings of the 2019
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th Inter-
national Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), Associa-
tion for Computational Linguistics, Hong Kong, China, pp. 11–20. https://
aclanthology.org/D19-1002. 10.18653/v1/D19-1002 event-place: Hong Kong, China.
Wismadi, I., Khrisne, D., Suyadnya, I., 2019. Detecting the Ripeness of Harvest-Ready
Dragon Fruit using Smaller VGGNet-Like Network. J. Elec. Electron. Informa. 3 (2),
35–38. https://doi.org/10.24843/JEEI.2019.v03.i02.p01.
Yam, K.L., Papadakis, S.E., 2004. A simple digital imaging method for measuring and ana-
lyzing color of food surfaces. J. Food Eng. 61, 137–142. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0260-
8774(03)00195-X.
Yamada, H., Ohmura, H., Arai, C., Terui, M., 1994. Effect of preharvest fruit temperature on
ripening, sugars, and Watercore occurrence in apples. J. Am. Soc. Hortic. Sci. 119,
1208–1214. https://doi.org/10.21273/JASHS.119.6.1208 publisher: American Society
for Horticultural Science Section: Journal of the American Society for Horticultural
Science.
Yang, H., 2011. Remote sensing technique for predicting harvest time of tomatoes.
Procedia Environ. Sci. 10, 666–671 Publisher: Elsevier BV.
Yang, S.F., Hoffman, N.E., 1984. Ethylene biosynthesis and its regulation in higher plants.
Annu. Rev. Plant Physiol. 35, 155–189.
Zhao, Y., Gong, L., Huang, Y., Liu, C., 2016. Robust tomato recognition for robotic harvest-
ing using feature images fusion. Sensors 16, 173.
Zhu, Q., Huang, M., Zhao, X., Wang, S., 2013. Wavelength selection of hyperspectral scat-
tering image using new semi-supervised afﬁnity propagation for prediction of ﬁrm-
ness and soluble solid content in apples. Food Anal. Methods 6, 334–342. https://
doi.org/10.1007/s12161-012-9442-2.
Ziosi, V., Noferini, M., Fiori, G., Tadiello, A., Trainotti, L., Casadoro, G., Costa, G., 2008. A new
index based on Vis spectroscopy to characterize the progression of ripening in peach
fruit. Postharvest Biol. Technol. 49, 319–329. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.postharvbio.
2008.01.017 publisher: Elsevier BV.
M. Rizzo, M. Marcuzzo, A. Zangari et al.
Artiﬁcial Intelligence in Agriculture 7 (2023) 44–57
57
