Noname manuscript No.
(will be inserted by the editor)
Vision-Based Preharvest Yield Mapping for Apple
Orchards
Pravakar Roy · Abhijeet Kislay · Patrick A. Plonski · James Luby ·
Volkan Isler
the date of receipt and acceptance should be inserted later
Abstract We present an end-to-end computer vision
system for mapping yield in an apple orchard using im-
ages captured from a single camera. Our proposed sys-
tem is platform independent and does not require any
speciﬁc lighting conditions. Our main technical contri-
butions are 1) a semi-supervised clustering algorithm
that utilizes colors to identify apples and 2) an unsuper-
vised clustering method that utilizes spatial properties
to estimate fruit counts from apple clusters having arbi-
trarily complex geometry. Additionally, we utilize cam-
era motion to merge the counts across multiple views.
We veriﬁed the performance of our algorithms by con-
ducting multiple ﬁeld trials on three tree rows consist-
ing of 252 trees at the University of Minnesota Horti-
cultural Research Center. Results indicate that the de-
tection method achieves F1-measure .95−.97 for multi-
ple color varieties and lighting conditions. The counting
method achieves an accuracy of 89% −98%. Addition-
ally, we report merged fruit counts from both sides of
the tree rows. Our yield estimation method achieves
an overall accuracy of 91.98% −94.81% across diﬀerent
datasets.
Keywords Yield estimation · Apple detection · Apple
counting · Semi-supervised image segmentation ·
Machine vision · Unsupervised clustering
Eﬃcient control and management of agricultural farms
are essential to cope with growing population and nu-
Pravakar Roy · Abhijeet Kislay · Patrick A. Plonski · Vokan
Isler
Robotic Sensor Networks (RSN) Lab, Department of Com-
puter Science and Engineering, University of Minnesota
E-mail: {royxx268, kislay004, plons005, isler}@umn.edu
James Luby
Department of Horticultural Science, University of Minnesota
E-mail: lubyx001@umn.edu
merous environmental and economic issues. Precision
agriculture techniques provide farmers with methods
to monitor the status of their crops on demand and en-
able them to make crucial decisions (trimming, prun-
ing, application of fertilizers and pesticides etc.). For
many commodity crops (rice, corn, wheat etc.), these
techniques are already mature enough to provide on-
demand maps (yield, crop stress, water quality etc.) as
well as help create an infrastructure to implement cru-
cial tasks. However, for specialty crops (such as fruits,
vegetables, and ﬂowers), these techniques are still evolv-
ing. Specialty crops are particularly good candidates
for precision farming and phenotyping studies, because
of their species diversity, high value, high management
cost, and high variability in growth. One of the main
bottlenecks for both these applications is the lack of a
convenient yield mapping system.
The variability in plant size, color, shape etc., make
it diﬃcult to develop a general yield mapping method.
Instead, researchers developed yield mapping systems
speciﬁc to each crop (Senthilnath et al. (2016); Wang
et al. (2013); Das et al. (2015); Gongal et al. (2016);
Silwal et al. (2014)). In this paper, we focus on ap-
ple orchards and present a complete system for yield
monitoring. Our system has a couple of distinguishing
features:
1. It is platform independent and relies only on images
captured from a single camera. The camera can be
mounted on a ground robot or an Unmanned Aerial
Vehicle (UAV). It can also be handheld.
2. It does not require any special lighting condition. It
operates at daytime in a completely natural envi-
ronment that is convenient for ﬁeld applications.
We have two main technical contributions in this
paper. 1) We present a novel semi-supervised segmenta-
arXiv:1808.04336v1  [cs.CV]  13 Aug 2018

2
Pravakar Roy et al.
Fig. 1: Conditions typical to orchard settings. Our al-
gorithms perform well in the ﬁrst four cases. For the
ﬁnal image, it requires a signiﬁcant amount of user su-
pervision to obtain reasonable performance.
Fig. 2: From left to right: Segmented images exhibiting
complex geometry. Sample output of our algorithm on
an individual cluster.
tion method to separate the apple pixels from others in
the input images. Varying colors of apples (red, golden,
green, yellow along with the mixture of their shades),
diﬀerent lighting conditions (based on the position of
the sun, clouds etc.), shadows and occlusions created by
leaves and branches make the job of identifying regions
belonging to apples in an image diﬃcult. We present
a semi-supervised segmentation method (Fig. 7) which
utilizes minimal user interaction to train a classiﬁca-
tion model and uses it to identify the apples. Addition-
ally, the system is capable of storing trained models
that can be used for a similar variety of apples and
lighting conditions. A key aspect of our segmentation
method is that it does not rely on detecting every apple
in a single frame (Fig. 16(b)). We utilize multiple views
for detection and counting based on the assumption
that for every apple there is “some” view from which it
can be detected. This provides robustness against false
positives (caused by shadows and specularities) and
helps us achieve high precision and recall (Fig. 18,19).
We investigate the sensitivity of our detection method
with respect to user input, the impact of occlusions,
performance for diﬀerent color varieties and lighting
conditions. We observed that except for extreme sit-
uations (Fig. 1 rightmost image) most of the diﬃcul-
ties caused by occlusions and lighting conditions can
be eliminated with the help of user supervision. Our al-
gorithm achieves F1-score of .95−.97 for diﬀerent color
varieties and lighting conditions outperforming all ex-
isting methods.
Fig. 3: Sample output of our algorithm after the count-
ing step. These two images show the diﬀerence in the
number of pixels occupied by individual apples. Our al-
gorithm works for both cases regardless of any tuning,
whereas techniques such as Circular Hough Transform
(CHT) need to be tuned for maximum/minimum fruit
size for each individual case.
2) We present a novel method for counting the ap-
ples from clusters with arbitrarily complex geometry
and merge the apple counts across multiple frames uti-
lizing camera motion. Counting apples from a running
sequence of images is diﬃcult as apples can be found
in arbitrarily shaped clusters in which almost all ap-
ples overlap with each other (Fig. 2). Furthermore, be-
cause of specularities as well as occlusions due to leaves
and branches, some apples are not detectable at all.
We present a method for counting apples based on a
classic clustering technique: Gaussian Mixture Models
(GMM) (Bilmes et al. (1998)). Our method provides
both the counts and location of individual apples in
an input image. We model each apple with a Gaussian
probability distribution function (pdf) and each apple
cluster with a mixture of Gaussians. We present a novel
heuristic to ﬁnd the correct number of components (i.e
the number of apples) in the mixture model. Addition-
ally, apples detected in individual frames are tracked
across frames to obtain accurate counts (Fig. 4). We
merge the information obtained from the per frame op-
erations across multiple frames utilizing camera motion
(approximated by pairwise homography). We validate
our counting performance both individually and cou-
pled with tracking. We observe that the accuracy of
the per-frame counting method is 94.4%. When cou-
pled with tracking, we achieve a varying accuracy of
89% −98% for seven diﬀerent videos.
One of the main takeaways from this paper is that
the number of visible apples from a single side of a row
varies a lot from datasets to datasets (40.85%−79.83%)
(See section 5.4). To obtain a consistent estimate of
fruit counts, it is essential to have a coherent geomet-

Vision-Based Preharvest Yield Mapping for Apple Orchards
3
ric representation of the entire tree row. With the help
of our recent work (Dong and Isler (2018); Roy et al.
(2018)) we report merged apple counts from both sides
of fruit tree rows with a varying accuracy of 91.98% −
94.81% across three diﬀerent datasets.
Fig. 4: Tracking apples across three consecutive images.
Leftmost image is the ﬁrst frame. In consecutive frames,
apples detected earlier are shown in blue. New apples
are circled green.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows: in Sec-
tion 1 we discuss relevant works in literature. In Sec-
tion 2 we formalize our problem deﬁnition and provide
a brief overview of our entire computer vision system.
Section 3, 4 present our segmentation and counting
methods. Section 5 presents the experimental results.
Finally, Section 6 presents the conclusion and future
work. We start with the related works in the next sec-
tion.
1 Related Work
There has been a signiﬁcant recent activity for automat-
ing yield estimation(Wang et al. (2013); Das et al. (2015);
Hung et al. (2015); Gongal et al. (2016)) in apple or-
chards. While some of these existing works focus on the
entire yield estimation systems, others focus on spe-
ciﬁc components only. In this section, we ﬁrst discuss
complete yield estimation systems and then focus on
individual components. Besides apples, our discussion
includes yield estimation systems and components for
fruits similar to apples such as citrus, pomegranates,
tomatoes etc.
Complete Yield Estimation Systems: Wang et al.
(2013) presented a complete system for apple yield esti-
mation. Their system used a side facing, wide-baseline
vertical stereo rig mounted on an autonomous ground
vehicle. The system operated in controlled artiﬁcial il-
lumination settings at night. It uses ﬂashlights to illu-
minate the apples and classiﬁed them using HSV color
thresholds. In addition to count information, the stereo
system extracted fruit sizes. Hung et al. (2015) pre-
sented a feature based learning approach for identiﬁ-
cation of red and green apples and extraction of fruit
count. They used a conditional random ﬁeld classiﬁer
to segment fruits using color and depth data. Das et al.
(2015) developed a sensor suite for extracting plant
morphology, canopy volume, leaf area index and fruit
counts that consists of a laser range scanner, multi-
spectral cameras, a thermal imaging camera and navi-
gational sensors. They used a Support Vector Machine
(SVM) trained on pixel color to locate apples in images.
Gongal et al. (2016) developed a new sensor system
with an over-the-row platform integrated with a tunnel
structure which acquired images from opposite sides of
apple trees. The tunnel structure is used to minimize il-
lumination of apples with direct sunlight and to reduce
the variability in lighting. In contrast to these systems,
our goal is to develop a general computer vision system
to extract the count of apples in an orchard row from
a monocular camera. The system is independent of any
particular hardware platform and can be used with a
various type of robotic and non-robotic systems. In the
rest of this section, we will discuss systems developed
for tackling speciﬁc portions of the yield estimation sys-
tem.
Apple Detection: The problem of locating fruits
from captured photographs have been studied exten-
sively in the literature. Early systems relied on hard
color thresholds. The early methods relying on ma-
chine learning were targeted to learn these thresholds.
Jimenez et al. (2000) presented a survey of these early
computer vision methods for locating fruits on trees.
More recent approaches include Zhou et al. (2012), who
presented a method that uses RGB and HSV color
thresholds to detect Gala apples. Linker et al. (2012),
used K-nearest neighbor (KNN) classiﬁer along with
blob and arc ﬁtting to ﬁnd red and green apples. The
authors avoid specular lighting conditions by capturing
images close to sunset. Changyi et al. (2015) developed
an apple detection method that uses backpropagation
neural network (Hecht-Nielsen (1989)) trained on color
features. Similar to them, Liu et al. (2016) presented a
method for detecting apples at night using pixel color
and position as features in neural networks. The earliest
work close to our method is (Tabb et al. (2006)) who
developed a method for detecting apples from videos
using background modeling by global Gaussian mix-
ture models (GMM). The method relied on images col-
lected using an over-the-row harvester platform that
provides a consistent background and illumination set-
ting. In contrast, we operate in natural settings, use
GMM for unsupervised clustering in every image and
classify them using pre-trained models.

4
Pravakar Roy et al.
Deep Learning for Detecting Apples: Recent
advancements in deep learning inspired researchers to
apply these techniques for identifying apples. Bargoti
and Underwood (2017) used Multi-Scale Multi-Layered
Perceptron network (MLP) for apple and almond de-
tection. Stein et al. (2016) used a similar deep learn-
ing technique to identify mangoes. Chen et al. (2017)
used a Fully Convolutional Neural Network (Long et al.
(2015)) for apple segmentation. Though deep learning
methods are accurate, they require a large amount of
training data [e.g we trained a Fully Convolutional Net-
work (FCN) using the data from (Bargoti and Under-
wood (2017)) and the network did not perform well on
our data. When we use some of our data for training
though, performance improved drastically]. Generating
such training data for diﬀerent varieties of apples, in dif-
ferent lighting conditions are tedious and cumbersome.
In contrast, our method generalizes to any variety of
apples and diﬀerent lighting conditions (as long as ap-
ples can be distinguished from other objects by color)
using a modest amount of user assistance.
Registering Fruits Across Images: Compared
to locating fruits in images, the studies on registering
fruits across multiple images has been limited. Only
the systems with full yield estimation pipelines stud-
ied this problem. Wang et al. (2013) used stereo cam-
eras and point cloud alignment (using odometry and
GPS) to avoid double counting. They aligned the ap-
ples in 3D space and removed the ones which are within
ﬁve centimeters of a previously registered apple. Hung
et al. (2015) used sampling at certain intervals to re-
move overlap between images. Das et al. (2015) used
optical ﬂow and navigational sensors to avoid duplicate
apples. In our previous work (Roy and Isler (2016)), we
presented a novel method for registering apples based
on aﬃne tracking (Baker and Matthews (2004)) and
incremental structure from motion (SfM) (Sinha et al.
(2014)). In this work, we are using homography between
frames to track fruits and to avoid double counting.
To obtain an accurate yield estimate, in addition to
registering fruits from a single side, we need to register
the fruits from both sides of the row. Only Wang et al.
(2013) handles this problem and used point cloud align-
ment using odometry and GPS. In this paper, we utilize
a novel technique that utilizes global and local semantic
information (ground plane, tree trunks, the silhouette
of foliage etc.) for merging the apple counts from both
sides (Dong and Isler (2018); Roy et al. (2018)).
Counting Fruits: Most of the yield estimation work
described before report counting results. The methods
for counting fruits from segmented images are domi-
nated by circular Hough transforms (CHT) (Silwal et al.
(2014); Changyi et al. (2015); Liu et al. (2016)). The
main bottleneck of using CHT is that the parameters
need to be tuned across diﬀerent datasets. Another is-
sue with this method is occlusion. Due to occlusion
many apples are not fully visible and cannot be ap-
proximated by a circle. Diﬀerent from these methods,
Senthilnath et al. (2016) used K-means, a mixture of
Gaussians and Self-Organizing Maps (SOM) to detect
individual tomatoes within a cluster. They used the
Bayesian Information Criterion (BIC) (Chen and Gopalakr-
ishnan (1998)) to select the optimal number of com-
ponents in these methods. Chen et al. (2017) used a
neural network for determining the count of the ap-
ples. In contrast, we use a Gaussian mixture model to
count the apples from registered and segmented apple
clusters. Unlike CHT, our method does not require any
parameter tuning and can handle arbitrarily complex
clusters. Unlike the neural network based methods, it
does not require any training. The method yields com-
petitive results compared to most of the state of the art
methods. In this paper, we present a complete computer
vision system for yield estimation in apple orchards. We
present a novel segmentation method for detecting ap-
ples, a tracking method based on homography and a
non-parametric counting algorithm. We start with an
overview of the entire system in the next section.
2 Problem Formulation and Overview of Our
Computer Vision System
In this section, we formalize our problem deﬁnition and
present a brief overview of our system. We start with
the problem deﬁnition.
Problem Formulation: Given a set of images from a
calibrated monocular camera facing one side of a row
in an apple orchard (where it is assumed that the vari-
ance in viewing direction is very small), we want to
compute the total apple counts from the entire image
sequence. To solve this problem, we proceed in a per
frame manner - separate the apple pixels from others in
every frame and count the number of apples in each of
them. Afterward, we merge the information across mul-
tiple frames by utilizing the approximate camera mo-
tion from pairwise homographies. We discuss the com-
ponents of our system brieﬂy in the rest of this section.
2.1 Segmentation
The segmentation component takes as input a color im-
age for each frame, and outputs a binary mask which
marks whether each pixel in the image belongs to the
class apple (Fig. 7). This component is presented in
detail at Section 3.

Vision-Based Preharvest Yield Mapping for Apple Orchards
5
First, the image is over-segmented into SLIC su-
perpixels (Achanta et al. (2012)), using the LAB col-
orspace. A single representative color (mean LAB color
of the pixels within the superpixel) is assigned to each
superpixel. Then superpixels are clustered by color into
approximately 25 color classes. Finally, it is determined
for each class whether it describes apples, based on
KL divergence (Goldberger et al. (2003)) from hand-
labeled classes. These hand-labeled classes can be ob-
tained from the unsupervised clusters of the ﬁrst few
frames of a particular video, to easily account for cur-
rent lighting conditions and the color of the particular
apple variety at its particular ripeness.
2.2 Per Frame Counting
The per frame counting component takes as input the
binary segmented mask for each frame, and outputs a
set of bounding boxes and associated integers for each
frame where each bounding box represents a connected
cluster of apples, and the integer is the estimated num-
ber of apples in that cluster (Fig. 2, 3). This component
is presented in detail at Section 4.1.
First, a connected component analysis is performed
on the binary apple mask. Each connected component
is examined separately, to determine how many ap-
ples it contains. We perform a Gaussian Mixture Model
(GMM) based clustering to estimate the number of ap-
ples contained within the bounding box, as well as their
positions.
2.3 Camera Motion Approximation
The camera motion approximation component takes as
input the detected SIFT (Lowe (1999)) features in the
original input images. It computes a pairwise homogra-
phy using the SIFT feature matches.
2.4 Merging the Counts From Multiple Views
The merging component takes as input a sequence of
per frame bounding boxes with apple counts, as well as
estimated frame-to-frame homographies of the approx-
imately planar scene. The output is a total count of
unique apples seen in the frame sequence (Fig. 4, 12).
This component is presented in Section 4.2.
Essentially, it propagates the computed bounding
boxes forward and recomputes the counts when a bound-
ing box overlaps with another one.
3 Apple Segmentation
In the segmentation stage, the goal is to identify pix-
els which are likely to belong to an apple. Speciﬁcally,
the segmentation algorithm takes as input an RGB im-
age and produces a binary mask where pixels belonging
to apples are marked as ones and all other pixels are
marked as zeros.
One approach to segmentation is to simply choose
apple pixels based on predetermined thresholds on color
values. While this approach has the advantage of sim-
plicity, in ﬁeld conditions it often fails due to the vari-
ability of lighting conditions. In recent years, deep-learning-
based approaches such as convolutional neural networks
emerged as powerful, general methods for image clas-
siﬁcation. Recently their extension to Fully Convolu-
tional Networks (FCN) trained for pixel-wise prediction
has gained popularity for fruit and crop segmentation
(Chen et al. (2017)). While these models achieve high
accuracy, training a network general enough to accom-
modate variations in light and visibility conditions re-
mains challenging. Further, training FCNs for each or-
chard video separately requires a signiﬁcant amount of
human labor involved in generating ground truth label
for each apple.
We propose a semi-supervised image segmentation
method based on color and shape features of apples. By
itself, the segmentation algorithm runs at 5 to 6 frames
per second on images of size 1920×1080 and 15 frames
per second for images of the size of 640×480 on a DELL
XPS laptop with 16GB RAM and 2GB GPU memory.
The training required from the user is minimal. It is
assisted by a simple, convenient user interface. As we
show in Section 5.3, the method generalizes well for the
cases where the training and testing data are from dif-
ferent portions of an orchard taken on diﬀerent days.
Our method is expected to work for cases where apples
are visibly distinguishable from the surrounding vegeta-
tion based on the color. Some working and challenging
conditions are shown in Fig. 1.
Details of the segmentation process: For each
frame in the image sequence, we convert it from RGB to
LAB (Gauch and Hsia (1992)) color space and perform
SLIC superpixel segmentation (Fig. 7(b)) (Achanta et al.
(2012)). This generates a set of superpixels S for each
image.
S = {s1, ..., sN}
Here each superpixel si is represented by {µL
i , µA
i , µB
i },
the mean L,A,B values for all pixels si. We assume that
the set S of superpixels can be modeled as a density
function p(s|θ) governed by the set of parameters θ.

6
Pravakar Roy et al.
Fig. 5: Gaussian representation of semantic entities.
Each blue data point is the mean LAB color for each
superpixel in the image. Each 3D ellipsoid represents
the Gaussian ﬁt on clusters obtained from unsuper-
vised clustering using EM and GMM. For visualization,
showing 19% of the standard deviation for each Gaus-
sian ellipsoid. Red colored ellipsoids are capturing the
superpixels belonging to apples.
For soft segmentation, we model S as a Gaussian Mix-
ture Model(GMM) (Chuang et al. (2001); Ruzon and
Tomasi (2000)) with M components. Hence p is repre-
sented by a set of Gaussian components Gi and param-
eters θ as the respective mean µi and covariances Σi
for each Gi.
p(s|θ) =
M
X
i=1
αiGi(s|µi, Σi)
such that PM
i=1 αi = 1
The likelihood function of the parameters can be
written as:
L(µ, Σ|S) =
N
Y
i=1
p(si|µi, Σi)
The resultant Gaussian mixture density estimation
problem is:
(µ∗, Σ∗) = argmax
µ,Σ L(µ, Σ|S)
where µ∗= µ∗
1, ..., µ∗
M and Σ∗= Σ∗
1, ..., Σ∗
M. Ex-
pectation Maximization (EM) is used (Bilmes et al.
(1998)) to estimate µ∗
i , Σ∗
i for each Gaussian cluster
Gi. Each Gaussian cluster Gi thus generated contains
similar colored superpixels (Fig. 5) and represents dif-
ferent semantic entities of an orchard frame such as the
sky, soil, apples, leaves, branches, etc.
(a) Input is a video. For each frame in the initial-
ization step, among all Gaussian components Gi,
Gk are chosen and saved in a list using a UI. These
saved Gk are used for ﬁnding Gaussian components
in the usage step.
(b) A general way of using the Usage and
Initialization phase for a dataset.
Fig. 6: Explanation of the user interface.

Vision-Based Preharvest Yield Mapping for Apple Orchards
7
Next, we identify which among these Gi capture su-
perpixels belonging to apples. We divide this step into
two parts: (1) initialization and (2) usage (Fig. 6(a)).
In the initialization phase, we provide an interface for
a user to interact with the Gi. Here the user is allowed
to:
– select components Gk which completely capture ap-
ples. For each selected Gk, their respective µ∗
k and
Σ∗
k are pushed in a list in memory.
– delete components from the list stored in memory.
This step is generally needed where there is a sudden
illumination change and the previous stored compo-
nents Gk become bad (Fig. 6(b)). We can update the
old list, and continue the segmentation process from
the current frame.
In the usage phase, the user interface is not invoked.
To ﬁnd components belonging to apples, we perform a
simple matching between the current frame’s Gi and
the saved Gk. We use KL Divergence as the distance
measure for comparing Gaussians from Gi and Gk. For
a matched Gaussian Gi, all the superpixels within the
90% conﬁdence bounds are identiﬁed as superpixels be-
longing to apples. A normal usage paradigm is shown
in Fig. 6(b).
4 Counting Apples and Merging the Counts
across Multiple Frames
After the segmentation phase, we count the number
of apples from each segmented frame and merge the
counts across multiple frames utilizing the estimated
camera motion. In this section, we present both of these
methods in detail. We start with per frame counting in
the following section.
4.1 Per Frame Counting
Given a segmented input image, we would like to ﬁnd
the number and location of all the apples in the im-
age. We use a Gaussian Mixture Models (GMM) based
clustering method. Instead of color, we now focus on the
spatial components of the image. This method holds nu-
merous advantages over the Circular Hough Transform
(CHT) based techniques (Pedersen (2007)) - it does not
require manual parameter tuning, can handle a signiﬁ-
cant level of occlusion and ﬁnd apples of rapidly vary-
ing size. A preliminary version of this algorithm was
presented in (Roy and Isler (2017)). In Roy and Isler
(2017), we showed the comparison of this method with
a baseline method similar to CHT and it outperformed
it signiﬁcantly (the accuracy of baseline method 69%,
the accuracy of GMM based method 91%). In this, pa-
per we further validate the method with ground truth
from multiple datasets and implement it in a close to a
real-time system performing at 2-3 fps.
In our method, each apple is modeled by a Gaussian
probability distribution function (pdf) and apple clus-
ters are modeled as a mixture of Gaussians. We start
by converting the input cluster image I to binary. Let
this binary image be denoted by Ib. The locations of the
non-zero pixels in the binary image are used as input
to GMM.
Let X represent the set of apples we are trying to ﬁnd.
Then, we can convert our problem to a Gaussian mix-
ture model formulation in the following way:
P(Ib|X) = Gk(φ, µ, Σ) =
k
X
i=1
φiGi(µi, Σi)
(1)
Here, Gk(φ, µ, Σ) is a Gaussian mixture model with
k components, and Gi is the i th component of the
mixture. µi and Σi are the mean and covariance of the
ith component. The covariance matrix Σi =

σ2
xi, σ2
yi

is diagonal. φi is the weight of the ith component where
Pk
i=1 φi = 1 and 0 ≤φi ≤1.
Given model parameters θ = {φ, µ, Σ}, the problem
of ﬁnding the location of the center of the apples and
their pixel diameters can be formulated as computing
the world model which maximizes P(Ib|X).
Each component Gi(µi, Σi) of the mixture model
represents an apple with center at µi, equatorial radius
2σxi and axial radius 2σyi.
A common technique to solve for arg max P(Ib|X) is
the expectation maximization (EM) algorithm (Bilmes
et al. (1998)). As is well-known, EM provides us a local
greedy solution to the problem. Since EM is susceptible
to local maxima, initialization is very important. We
used K-means++ (Hartigan and Wong (1979)) (which
uses randomly-selected seeds to avoid local maxima) for
initialization of EM.
Selecting the Number of Components: In our
problem formulation, the number of components k is
the total number of apples in image I. EM enables us
to ﬁnd the optimal location of the apples given the to-
tal number of apples k. Our main technical contribution
is a method to calculate the correct k. Let the correct
number of apples in the input image be κ. We tried dif-
ferent state-of-the-art techniques (Akaike Information
Criterion (AIC) (Grunwald (2004)), Minimum Descrip-
tion Length (MDL) (Grunwald (2004)) etc.) for ﬁnding
κ. None of them worked out of the box for our pur-
poses (Fig. 8). Therefore, we propose a new heuristic
for evaluating mixture models with a diﬀerent number
of components based on MDL.

8
Pravakar Roy et al.
(a) Input image.
(b) Superpixel segmentation.
(c) Apple segmentation.
(d) Detection.
Fig. 7: Segmentation pipeline.
Fig. 8: Popular methods like AIC/BIC do not work out
of the box for our purposes. These criteria have a ten-
dency of choosing higher values of k. In this synthetic
image, we have only ﬁve circles but the AIC based crite-
rion value (Bar plot in the middle) was lowest for k = 6
and consequently, it ﬁnds eight apples.
Let σmin = min(σxi, σyi) and σmax = max(σxi, σyi).
Using the mean and covariances of the ith component
we deﬁne a 2D Gaussian kernel G(µi, σmax) where σmax
is the variance. Let P(µi) denote the response of the
kernel when placed at the center µi in the original in-
put image I and Ci denote the total number of pixels
clustered by Gi(µi, Σi). For each component Gi(µi, Σi),
of the mixture model Gk(φ, µ, Σ) we deﬁne the reward
Ri in the following way,
Ri(Gi) = φi
"
P(µi) + P(µi)
 σmin
σmax
2
+
P(µi)
Ci
πσmaxσmin
−1
3 (πσxiσyi −Ci)

(2)
For most of the images, we only capture the frontal
views of the apples, which can be easily approximated
by circles lying on a plane. All four terms in equation (2)
reward speciﬁc spatial characteristics of the Gaussian
pdf related to this fact. P(µi) represents the strength of
the distribution in terms of pixel values and is present in
the ﬁrst three terms. The second term rewards circular
shaped distributions using the eccentricity of the pdf.
As the eccentricity ϵ =
q
1 −σ2
min
σ2
max for circles is zero,
we use 1 −ϵ2 =

σmin
σmax
2
as the rewarding factor. The
third term rewards coverage. The fourth term penalizes
Gaussian pdfs covering large area and clustering very
few points.
Now if we ﬁnd out the reward Ri(Gi(µi, Σi)) for
all the components k, the total reward for the mixture
model Gk(φ, µ, Σ) can be computed by summing them
together.
Next, we deﬁne the penalty term. The traditional
MDL penalty term is U = cp log(|Y |) where p is the
number of parameters in the model, |Y | is the total
size of the input data, and c = 1
2 is a constant. Based
on this principle, our penalty term is V (Gk(φ, µ, Σ)) is
deﬁned as the following
V (Gk(φ, µ, Σ)) = c′(3k) log(
X
x
(Ib(x)̸ = 0)))
(3)
where x represents the pixel index across the image Ib.
Compared to the traditional MDL based penalty we
have the constant c′ = 3
2 instead of c = 1
2. This is at-
tributed to the fact that the reward expression (2) has
three terms compared to one. The number of compo-
nents k is multiplied by three as each Gaussian has

Vision-Based Preharvest Yield Mapping for Apple Orchards
9
three parameters [µi, σxi, σyi]. With these terms de-
ﬁned, we choose the correct number of components κ
in the following way:
κ = arg max
k
R(Gk(φ, µ, Σ)) −V (Gk(φ, µ, Σ))
(4)
(a) Predicted circles for diﬀerent number of components in
GMM.
(b) Rewards.
(c) Penalties.
(d) Final score.
Fig. 9: A synthetic example consisting of six random
circles and plots illustrating how the number of compo-
nents are selected. Figure (a) shows how the pdfs cover
the circles for diﬀerent values of k. Figure (b)-(d)shows
the score calculated from the rewards and penalties fol-
lowing the right hand side of equation (4). The plot
shows that the score is maximum for k = 6 which is
indeed the correct number of components.
To have a better understanding of the selection pro-
cedure, we demonstrate a synthetic example at Fig. 9(a).
From Fig. 9(b), it is evident that except for k = 6, other
mixtures have low circularity. The coverage rewards and
pixel density components increase with k and converge
to a steady state. While the penalty for minimum de-
scription length principle increases with k, generally the
penalty for coverage decreases with k. In this example,
the crucial factors in determining the score are circu-
larity and the coverage penalty. For k = 6 circularity
is at the peak and coverage penalty is lowest and con-
sequently, the score was maximum for k = 6. The plot
of the corresponding rewards, penalties and ﬁnal scores
are shown in Fig. 9(b) - (d). We show sample results
from our datasets in Fig. 10.
Fig. 10: A sample output from GMM on real data.
After executing the counting algorithm on each of
the bounding boxes we have the location of the apples
within each box and the number of apples per box.
This is the input to our merging method that merges
the apple counts across multiple frames. We describe
this procedure in details in the next section.
4.2 Merging Count Across Multiple Frames
The per-frame counting method provides us with the
apple counts for a single frame. In natural settings though,
the visibility of a particular cluster can change drasti-
cally with a change in camera position. A cluster might
be completely invisible/partially visible from a partic-
ular view and yet clearly visible from other views. For
these reasons, our segmentation method may not able
to obtain the perfect segmentation in each frame and
consequently, the predicted number of apples might be
incorrect. Therefore, to obtain the correct apple count
for each cluster we merge the counts from diﬀerent
frames. For this operation, we need to establish the cor-
respondence between the clusters across multiple frames.
It is executed by utilizing the camera motion.
As our camera viewing direction does not change
much, and the scene is roughly planar, we model the
camera motion between consecutive frames by pairwise
homography (Eshel and Moses (2008)). The homogra-
phy between frames is estimated by matching SIFT
(Lowe (1999)) features above the ground. Using homog-
raphy we will keep track of the boxes generated by the
connected component analysis across the entire image
sequence (Fig. 11).
Let b1
1, b1
2, . . . b1
m be the bounding boxes generated
by connected component analysis for frame 1. Let the
apple count for each of this boxes be c1
1, c1
2, . . . c1
m (com-
puted by the counting method). When we ﬁnd a bound-
ing box for the ﬁrst time we initialize a counting list
that contains computed counts from the ﬁrst frame.
Now for frame 2, let the bounding boxes be b2
1, b2
2, . . . b2
n
and the counts be c2
1, c2
2, . . . c2
n. Let the homography

10
Pravakar Roy et al.
Fig. 11: Tracking an apple cluster over 31 frames.
For clarity only 13 frames with signiﬁcant changes are
shown. The arrows indicate the direction of the views
from start to end.
that maps frame 1 to frame 2 be 2H1. We propagate
all the bounding boxes in frame 1 to frame 2 using
2H1. This is executed by multiplying the center of each
bounding box with 2H1. Next, we check the overlap be-
tween these propagated bounding boxes and the origi-
nal bounding boxes on frame 2. If the overlap is more
than 10% we assume that these bounding boxes cor-
respond to the same cluster. We will add the apple
count to the list initialized previously using the follow-
ing rules:
– When a bounding box in the current frame does not
overlap with any of the propagated bounding boxes,
a new counting list for this box is initialized with the
current count.
– When only one bounding box in the current frame
overlaps with a propagated bounding box, the count
from the bounding box in the current frame is added
to the counting list for the propagated box
– Otherwise, when two or more bounding boxes over-
lap with a bounding box from the previous frame,
their counts are added to obtain the total count to
be recorded in the list. To have a better understand-
ing of this rule, we consider the following scenario:
Let b2
1, b2
3 be overlapping with b1
1. Prior to frame 2
the counting list of b1
1, cb1
1 had only one entry, c1
1. As
there is overlap, a new entry will be inserted. This
new entry is c′2
1 = c2
1 + c2
3.
– The overlapping bounding boxes are unioned to ob-
tain a new bounding box covering all of them. These
new bounding boxes will be propagated to the next
frame.
At the end of the image sequence, we have a set of
unique boxes with count lists. We compute the median
for each of the boxes and the sum of these are reported
as the total count (Fig. 12).
Fig. 12: Merging Apple Counts Across Frames. We keep
track of the corresponding bounding boxes generated
connected component analysis across multiple frames
using homography. The count for every box from dif-
ferent frames is recorded throughout the entire video.
In this example, box1 appeared in frame 1, 3, . . . , 8 and
the counts for each of these frames C1, C3 . . . C8 were
recorded. The median counts for each box are reported
as the ﬁnal output of the counting method.
5 Experimental Results
In this section, we present experimental results validat-
ing our algorithms. We start with the datasets.
5.1 Datasets
To verify the performance of our algorithms, we col-
lected multiple datasets. We group these datasets into
two categories, namely - “Validation Datasets and Train-
ing Datasets”. As their names suggest, they are used for
the purposes of validation, and training. All data were
collected at the University of Minnesota Horticulture
Research Center at Victoria Minnesota (Fig. 13), over
the course of two years (2015 - 2016).
Fig. 13: Data collection site with annotated rows. The
ﬁgure on left shows the orchard location and the ﬁgure
on right shows the individual rows of apple trees.

Vision-Based Preharvest Yield Mapping for Apple Orchards
11
Each of the videos collected from these datasets is
tagged sunny/shady/cloudy based on the weather con-
dition and whether the particular side of the row (cap-
tured in the video) was facing/opposing the sun.
Validation Datasets Since this is a research site, it
is home to many diﬀerent kinds of apple trees. We ar-
bitrarily chose four diﬀerent sections in the orchard.
We collected seven videos from these four segments, all
of which were annotated manually with fruit locations
(annotation procedure will be discussed in the next sec-
tion). We also collected ground truth for all of them by
labeling the apples physically by stickers and measur-
ing their diameter after harvest. The details of these
datasets are the following:
Dataset1 This dataset contains six trees. Most of the
apples on these trees were fully red and the trees
were mostly planar (most of the apples are visi-
ble from both sides). We collected videos from both
sides (the side facing the sun and opposing the sun)
of the row. In total, there were 270 apples in these
six trees. See Fig. 14 (leftmost) for a sample image
from this dataset.
Dataset2 This dataset contains four trees. The trees
had a mixture of red and green apples and complex
(non-planar) geometry. We collected a video from a
single side of the row (the side facing the sun). In
total, there were 568 apples in these four trees. See
Fig. 14 (second from left) for a sample image from
this dataset.
Dataset3 This dataset contains ten trees. Apples in these
trees were mostly red and the trees had non-planar
geometry. In total, there were 274 apples in these
ten trees. We collected videos from both sides (the
side facing the sun and opposing the sun) of the row.
See Fig. 14 (third from left) for a sample image from
this dataset.
Dataset4 This dataset contains six trees. Fruits in these
trees were a mixture of red and green apples and the
trees had non-planar geometry. We collected videos
from both sides of the row (the side facing the sun
and opposing the sun). In total, there were 414 ap-
ples in these six trees. See Fig. 14 (fourth from left)
for a sample image from this dataset.
All of the videos collected from these datasets are
used to validate our segmentation and counting algo-
rithms. Additionally, Dataset 1, 3 and 4 are used to
verify the total fruit counts from both sides. As we
only collected video from a single side of the row from
Dataset2, it is not used to verify both side fruit counts.
Training Datasets To validate how our algorithms
perform without user supervision, we picked a dataset
from 2015. This dataset contains 76 trees. Fruits in
these trees were a mixture of red and green apples and
the trees had non-planar geometry. We collected a video
from a single side of a row (it was a cloudy day, both
sides were illuminated similarly). This video is not an-
notated manually and ground truth for this dataset is
unknown. We only used this dataset for developing a
model to identify apples without any user intervention.
In other words, the user input was provided for the 2015
dataset and used without modiﬁcation for 2016 dataset.
The four validation datasets were captured using a
Samsung Galaxy S4 camera in September 2016. The
training dataset was collected in 2015 using a Garmin
VR camera. It is notable that, our data collection facil-
ity is not a commercial orchard. Consequently, there is
a great amount of variability in the shape of the trees
even within the same crop row, which makes the yield
estimation problem harder. In the next section, we look
at the process of annotating the datasets.
5.2 Manual Annotation of Apples for Verifying
Detection and Counting
In order to validate our segmentation and counting meth-
ods, we need image level ground truth (detected apples
in each individual input image). This is diﬀerent from
the number of harvested apples from trees. For this pur-
pose, we annotated the boundary of individual apples
in the input images. This provides us with the ability
to compare the bounding boxes generated by our algo-
rithm with bounding boxes drawn manually.
For manual annotation, frames were selected arbi-
trarily every 1 −3 second for the test videos (frame
rate 30 fps), depending on how much the camera moved
since the last annotated frame. For each of these frames,
apples were tagged as clearly visible or marginally visible
based on visibility guidelines (Fig. 15). An apple was
considered clearly visible if more than half of its cross-
sectional area and more than half of its perimeter were
unoccluded. Otherwise, if it was still detected as an
apple by the human, it was marked as marginally visi-
ble. The marginally visible apples have more ambiguous
bounding boxes, and might not even have a one-to-one
mapping between boxes and apples. In addition to these
guidelines, apples that were growing on trees in the rows
behind the main row of interest, and apples that had
fallen to the ground, were not tagged.
Seven videos collected from the validation datasets
(Dataset1 to Dataset4), described in the previous sec-
tion, were tagged in this manner. The manually drawn
bounding boxes were then propagated to the rest of
the frames using camera motion between the frames. In
the next sections, we investigate the performance of our

12
Pravakar Roy et al.
Fig. 14: Sample images from used datasets. First four ﬁgures show sample images from the test datasets and the
last one shows a sample image from our training dataset.
segmentation and counting algorithms using these hand
labeled datasets. Additionally, we will look at the rela-
tionship of computed yield vs actual yield for Dataset1,
Dataset2, and Dataset4.
Fig. 15: Manual annotation of clearly visible and
marginally visible apples for two sample images. An ap-
ple was considered clearly visible if more than half of its
cross-sectional area and more than half of its perimeter
were unoccluded (green boxes). Otherwise, if it was still
detected as an apple by the human, it was marked as
marginally visible (red boxes).
Our segmentation algorithm detects the ground ap-
ples as well. The manual annotation procedure ignores
them. To remove ground apples, we let users choose a
single line at the start of each video. This line is propa-
gated using homography for the entire image sequence
and any apple detected below this line are labeled as
ground apples, and they are ignored for both segmen-
tation and counting.
5.3 Performance Evaluation of the Segmentation
Method
In this section, we study the performance of our seg-
mentation method. In particular, we investigate its sen-
sitivity with respect to user supervision across the vali-
dation datasets. We use three metrics, precision, recall
and F1- measure for this purpose. As is well-known in
literature, these metrics are obtained using true posi-
tives (TP), false positives (FP) and false negatives (FN).
Formally, precision =
TP
TP+FP and recall =
TP
TP+FN and
F1 measure = 2

precision·recall
precision+recall

. We deﬁne TP, FP
and FN using manually tagged apples and the apples
detected by our algorithm. Speciﬁcally, TP = apples de-
tected by our algorithm and tagged manually, FP = ap-
ples detected by the algorithm but not tagged manually,
FN = apples tagged manually but not detected by our
algorithm.
We compare the bounding boxes computed by our
algorithm to manually drawn bounding boxes (guide-
lines for the manual annotation procedure was described
in the previous section). To evaluate the quality of a
particular bounding box generated by our algorithm,
we use a metric well-known in the literature as the in-
tersection over union (IoU) threshold (Hariharan et al.
(2014)). This method factors in how much of each bound-
ing box is detected by our algorithm (Fig. 16(a)). We
demonstrate the performance of our algorithm in terms
of precision, recall and F1- measure over the entire range
of intersection over union threshold. For the purposes
of counting though, we utilize a nominal nonzero inter-
section over union threshold (0.01).
One of the advantages of our algorithm is that, we
do not detect all the apples on a single image. We uti-
lize multiple views available from the video. It is evident

Vision-Based Preharvest Yield Mapping for Apple Orchards
13
(a) Evaluation metric for segmentation
(b) Per-frame recall
(c) Per-frame precision
Fig. 16: Evaluation metric for segmentation, per-frame recall and precision. Figure on left shows how segmentation
accuracy is evaluated by performing one to one comparison between the ground truth and our resultant bounding
boxes. The ﬁgure on the middle, shows the variance in recall for per frame segmentation. The rightmost image
shows that, our precision per-frame is always over 87%. Coupling this with multiple views we achieve high precision
and recall (Fig. 17, 18, 19, 20) for the entire videos.
from Fig. 16(b) that for single frames even for nonzero
intersection over union threshold (means if the algo-
rithm detected bounding boxes just touches the ground
truth), the per-frame apple detection rate (recall) varies
signiﬁcantly. Nevertheless, our per-frame precision is al-
ways over 87% and with the help of multiple views of
each apple cluster we achieve high precision and recall
( Fig. 17, 18, 19, 20).
In order to test the performance without user in-
tervention, we trained a classiﬁcation model from the
dataset collected in 2015 and used this model for de-
tecting apples from the validation dataset collected in
2016. To test the eﬀect of user supervision on speciﬁc
videos collected from datasets, we let users choose the
apples from the ﬁrst ﬁfty frames of the input video.
We utilize the clusters chosen by the users to build the
classiﬁcation model and use this model for segmenting
apples. For the rest of the paper, we will refer to these
two types of classiﬁcation models as semi-supervised
and user-supervised models.
First, we evaluate the computed recall for clearly
and marginally visible apples. According to the visibil-
ity guidelines discussed in Section 5.2, the recall/ hit
rate for clearly visible apples should be higher than the
recall for marginally visible apples. Fig. 17 shows, that
this is indeed the case for both the semi-supervised
and user-supervised classiﬁcation models. We show
the results for two diﬀerent videos from the validation
datasets (Dataset1 and Dataset2) in Fig. 17. For the
ﬁgures on the top row, both models achieve high recall.
For the ﬁgures on bottom row the semi-supervised
model has a low recall and the user-supervised model
has high recall. Importantly though, for all the ﬁgures
we see that recall for clearly visible apples are higher
than recall for marginally visible apples and the overall
recall is in between these two (especially for high IoU
thresholds).
Second, we investigate the sensitivity of user input.
For the user-supervised case, we only allow choosing
apples for the ﬁrst ﬁfty frames. We see in Fig. 18,19 for
the ﬁrst ﬁve videos collected from Dataset1, Dataset3
and Dataset4 the precision and recall for both the user-
supervised and semi-supervised models are similar.
However, for the video collected from Dataset2, the ap-
ples are a mixture of red and green. Therefore, the
semi-supervised classiﬁcation model does not gener-
alize well. Consequently, the precision is similar but the
recall drops by 20%.
Finally, it is desired to obtain a single number as-
sociated with the performance of the algorithm. We
use F1- measure for this purpose. This is the harmonic
mean of precision and recall. Our F1-measure ranges
from .95 −.97 for six videos (Fig. 20, Table 1) for
nonzero intersection over union threshold. The best known
F1-measure .91 was obtained by (Bargoti and Under-
wood (2016)). As the datasets are diﬀerent, and our
method does not maximize detection for a single im-
age, a direct comparison is not possible. In the next
section, we investigate the performance of our counting
algorithm.
5.4 Performance Evaluation of the Counting Method
In this section, we quantify the performance of our
counting method. We investigate how the algorithm
(per-frame counting) performs on individual segmented
images and how the overall performance (merging counts
across frames) compares to human-perceived counts and
ground truth. It is notable that following the segmen-
tation step, all the bounding boxes with above nonzero

14
Pravakar Roy et al.
Fig. 17: Recall (hit rate) for clearly visible, marginally visible and all apples for both semi-supervised and user-
supervised case. As expected, the recall for clearly visible apples are high, and the recall for marginally visible
apples are low. The overall recall is in between this low and high bound.
Datasets
Semi-supervised
User-supervised
D1 (Sunny)
.9662
.9658
D1 (Shady)
.9585
.9609
D3 (Sunny)
.9738
.9711
D3 (Shady)
.9541
.9592
D4 (Sunny)
.9774
.9775
D2 (Sunny)
.8931
.9710
Table 1: F1- Measure for the Validation Dataset for IoU
= .01. Here, D1, D2, D3, D4 denote Dataset1, Dataset2,
Dataset3 and Dataset4.
intersection over union threshold are used in the count-
ing step.
For evaluating both per frame counting and merg-
ing, we utilize the videos collected from the validation
datasets (Dataset1 - Dataset4). We start with the per-
frame counting method.
5.4.1 Evaluation of Per-frame Counting Method:
To evaluate the performance of the per-frame counting
algorithm, we took all the segmented images from seven
videos collected from the four datasets. Afterward, we
performed a connected component analysis on them,
randomly selected 5000 components and marked each
one with the perceived count from a human point of
view. These counts are then compared to the counts
obtained from the algorithm. At this stage, we want
the segmented images to be accurate and consequently,
we use the user-supervised model for segmentation.
Essentially, we have three key insights from this exper-
iment. First, it is evident from the confusion matrix
(Fig. 21(a)), that recall drops with increasing cluster
size (varies from 62.7% −99%) but precision stays over
87% for any cluster size (varies from 87.8% −96%).
Second, for a large portion of the data - single apples
(75.31% of entire data (Fig. 21(b))); the precision and
recall of our algorithm are 96% and 99% respectively.
Consequently, the overall accuracy of our method is
high (94.4%) (shown in the right-bottom cell in the con-
fusion matrix). Third, low recall rates for larger clusters
does not aﬀect the overall performance. In the next sec-
tion, utilizing the high precision and multiple views we
achieve good recall on the entire data (Fig. 22(b)).
Next, we quantify the eﬀect of lighting conditions
(sunny, shady, cloudy etc.) on the counting method.
We computed the accuracy of the per-frame counting

Vision-Based Preharvest Yield Mapping for Apple Orchards
15
Fig. 18: Precision for semi-supervised and user-supervised models. For all the videos, the obtained precision
is similar for both models.
method across all the collected videos (which were col-
lected in diﬀerent lighting conditions). Our counting
accuracy varied from 94.01% −95.38%. Undercounting
percentage varies from 3.62%−5.67% and overcounting
varies from .74% −1.1%. These results are presented in
Fig. 21(c). In the next section, we evaluate the perfor-
mance of merging the apple counts using camera mo-
tion.
5.4.2 Merging Counts Across Multiple Frames
To verify the performance of the merging method, we
utilize the manual annotations. We treat the manually
annotated fruits as human perceived ground truth. Af-
terward, we track these fruits across frames using cam-
era motion (3D camera poses) to avoid double counting
and ﬁnd the number of unique apples. The counts ob-
tained in this manner are then compared to the counts
from our merging algorithm. First, we quantify the amount
of overcounting due to approximating the camera mo-
tion using homography. We performed this evaluation
by simply comparing the number of unique manually la-
beled apples obtained from homography to the number
of unique apples obtained by utilizing full 3D camera
motion. The camera motions were computed using a
commercial photogrammetry software Agisoft (Agisoft
(2017)). We found that across diﬀerent datasets; using
homography can lead to 8% overcounting. Fig. 22(a)
shows these results.
Next, we evaluate the accuracy of the merged counts
(tracking by homography) to human-perceived counts
(tracking by 3D camera poses). To understand the im-
portance of user interaction, we perform this analy-
sis for both semi-supervised and user-supervised
models (Fig. 22(b)). Our accuracy with respect to hu-
man perceived ground truth varies from 89% −98% for
the user-supervised model and 48% −98% for the
semi-supervised model. The drop in accuracy for the
semi-supervised model was propagated from the seg-
mentation phase. The main takeaways from these re-
sults are, 1) accurate segmentation is very important
for obtaining correct counts. 2) based on the geometry
of the environment and lighting conditions, we count
89%−98% of the visible apples from a single side. In the
next section, we investigate how the single side counts
correlate with the actual yield.

16
Pravakar Roy et al.
Fig. 19: Recall for semi-supervised and user-supervised models. For the ﬁve videos (collected from Dataset1,
Dataset3, Dataset4) the recall for both models is similar. For the last video (collected from Dataset2) the recall
for the semi-supervised model drops by 20%. This is due to the fact that, the apples contained this video are a
mixture of green and red which is not captured by the semi-supervised model representing primarily red apples.
Fig. 20: F1 - measure for both semi-supervised and user-supervised models.

Vision-Based Preharvest Yield Mapping for Apple Orchards
17
(a) Confusion matrix for the per-frame counting method.
(b) Distribution of cluster sizes.
(c) Accuracy of the per-frame counting method across diﬀerent videos collected from Dataset1-Dataset4.
Fig. 21: Evaluating the performance of the per-frame counting algorithm- confusion matrix (left), distribution of
cluster sizes (middle) and performance across diﬀerent datasets (right). The right-bottom cell in the confusion
matrix (ﬁgure on left) shows that the overall accuracy of our method is 94.4%. The rightmost column (Rows 1−6)
shows the precision per cluster size and the bottom row (Columns 1 −6) shows recall per cluster size. From the
ﬁgure on the middle, we ﬁnd that single apple clusters are dominating the data (75.31%). The ﬁgure on right
shows how our counting accuracy varied from 94.01% −95.38% across diﬀerent videos.

18
Pravakar Roy et al.
(a) Evaluation of tracking by homography.
(b) Performance comparison of semi-supervised and user-
supervised models for counting.
Fig. 22: Evaluating the performance of the counting algorithm along with tracking. The ﬁgure on left shows the
percentage of overcounting due to using homography for tracking (up to 8%). Figure on the right shows, the
percentage of visible apples counted by our method using both semi-supervised and user-supervised models.
5.5 Yield Estimation
Our original goal is to get an accurate yield estimate.
For that, we need to correlate the counts from our
algorithm (from the single side of a row) to the ac-
tual ground truth (number of harvested fruits). To-
ward this, we ﬁrst try to ﬁnd out a correlation be-
tween the number of visible apples from a single side
and the actual yield. As mentioned earlier, we deter-
mine the total number of visible apples by tracking
the manually labeled apples from a single side, utiliz-
ing estimated camera motion. For this step, we will use
datasets where videos from both sides were collected
(Dataset1, Dataset3, Dataset4). From Fig. 24(a), it is
evident that the number of visible apples from a single
side vary greatly across diﬀerent datasets (40.85% −
79.83%). This is expected as the orchard from which
we collected the data is not well trimmed and the size
and shape of the trees varies signiﬁcantly even within
the same row.
Fig. 23: Merged reconstruction for Dataset1.
Another simple solution is adding the apple counts
from both sides and ﬁnding a correlation with the ac-
tual yield. Fig. 24(b) shows these results and again,
the summed yields vary considerably across datasets
(101.93% −150%). Therefore, to get a useful estimate
we need to merge the fruit counts from both sides of the
tree rows. Next, we discuss this procedure in details.
To merge counts from both sides, we utilize the
3D geometry of the environment. We reconstruct each
side of the row using captured images. We use a pho-
togrammetry software Agisoft (Agisoft (2017)) for this
purpose. Afterward, we merge the reconstructions from
both sides using semantic constraints (Dong and Isler
(2018); Roy et al. (2018)). Fig. 23 shows an example
(merged reconstruction for Dataset1).
Next, we detect the fruits using our segmentation
method (Section 3) and back-project the detected fruits
in the images to obtain the fruit location in the 3D re-
construction. Fig. 25 shows an example. We perform a
connected component analysis to detect the apple clus-
ters in 3D. Then we project individual 3D clusters back
to the images by utilizing the recovered camera motion.
We count the fruits from these reprojected images us-
ing our counting method developed in Section 4. A 3D
cluster can be tracked over many frames. We choose
three frames with the highest amount of detected ap-
ple pixels (from the 3D cluster) and report the median
count of these three frames as the fruit count for the
cluster. We follow this procedure for all the detected
3D clusters and aggregate the fruit count from a single
side.
To merge the counts from both sides, we compute
the intersection of the connected components from both
sides. Afterward, we compute the total counts by us-
ing the inclusion-exclusion principle (Andreescu and
Feng (2004)). Essentially, we sum up the counts from

Vision-Based Preharvest Yield Mapping for Apple Orchards
19
(a) Percentage of visible apples from a single side compared
to ground truth yield.
(b) Summed counts from single sides compared to obtained
ground truth.
Fig. 24: Correlation between single side fruit counts and actual yield. The ﬁgure on left shows the percentage
of visible apples from a single side compared to ground truth (40.85% −79.83%). Figure on the right shows the
summed fruit counts from both sides compared to ground truth fruit counts (101.93% −150%).
all the connected components, compute the intersec-
tions area among them and add/subtract the weighted
parts accordingly. Fig. 26 shows our result. Our count-
ing accuracy from both sides for Dataset1, Dataset3 and
Dataset4 are 94.81%, 91.98%, and 94.68% respectively.
Compared to both side counts, if we just add the single
side counts we overcount signiﬁcantly (128.89%, 150%, and 101.93%
for Dataset1, Dataset3, and Dataset4 respectively). Ta-
ble 2 summarizes the ﬁnal yield result. It indicates that
merging the rows from both sides is essential to obtain
accurate yield.
6 Conclusion and Future Work
In this paper, we presented a complete yield estima-
tion system for apple orchards from monocular images.
From a purely technical point of view, our main contri-
butions are a semi-supervised clustering method rely-
ing on color for identifying the apples and an unsuper-
vised clustering method relying on shape to estimate
the number of apples in a cluster. We veriﬁed the per-
formance of our algorithms on multiple small datasets.
Results indicate that these algorithms perform well in
practice and outperform most of the existing methods
in terms of detection and counting accuracy.
As reported in section 5.4, we count 89% −98% of
the visible apples from a single side of the row in dif-
ferent datasets. To be of practical usage though, we
needed to correlate this single side counts with har-
vested yield. With the help of our recent work (Dong
and Isler (2018); Roy et al. (2018)), we merged the fruit
counts from both sides of fruit tree rows. Our method
achieved a varying accuracy of 91.98% −94.81% across
diﬀerent datasets.
In future, we would like to couple our system more
closely with the 3D geometry of the environment. We
would like to develop techniques to localize each indi-
vidual apple in a cluster, ﬁnd the pose of the fruit and
measure its diameter.
Acknowledgement
The authors thank Joshua Anderson, Professors Emily
Hoover, and Cindy Tong from the Department of Hor-
ticultural Science, University of Minnesota, for their ex-
pertise and help with the experiments. This work is sup-
ported in part by NSF grant # 1317788, USDA NIFA
MIN-98-G02 and the MnDrive initiative.
References
References
Achanta R, Shaji A, Smith K, Lucchi A, Fua P,
S¨usstrunk S (2012) Slic superpixels compared to
state-of-the-art superpixel methods. IEEE transac-
tions on pattern analysis and machine intelligence
34(11):2274–2282
Agisoft L (2017) Agisoft PhotoScan. http:http://
www.agisoft.com/, accessed: 2017-09-15
Andreescu T, Feng Z (2004) Inclusion-exclusion princi-
ple. In: A Path to Combinatorics for Undergraduates,
Springer, pp 117–141
Baker S, Matthews I (2004) Lucas-kanade 20 years on:
A unifying framework. International journal of com-
puter vision 56(3):221–255

20
Pravakar Roy et al.
Fig. 25: Apples in 3D and intersecting clusters from both sides. Left ﬁgure shows the apples from the front side of
Dataset1 detected in 3D. Figure in the middle shows the computed connected components on this apples. Figure
in the right shows how the connected components from the back are intersecting with the front ones.
Harvested fruit counts
Merged fruit counts from both sides
Sum of fruit counts from single sides
Dataset1
270
256 (94.81%)
348 (128.89%)
Dataset3
274
252 (91.98%)
411 (150%)
Dataset4
414
392 (94.68%)
422 (101.93%)
Table 2: Summary of yield results.
Fig. 26: Total fruit counts computed from the merged
reconstruction and independent single side reconstruc-
tions compared to ground truth. The single side fruit
counts are computed by summing up independent
single side counts (101.93% −150%). Evidently, the
counts from merged reconstructions are more consis-
tent (91.98% −94.81%).
Bargoti S, Underwood JP (2016) Image segmentation
for fruit detection and yield estimation in apple or-
chards. CoRR abs/1610.08120
Bargoti S, Underwood JP (2017) Image segmentation
for fruit detection and yield estimation in apple or-
chards. Journal of Field Robotics
Bilmes JA, et al. (1998) A gentle tutorial of the em al-
gorithm and its application to parameter estimation
for gaussian mixture and hidden markov models. In-
ternational Computer Science Institute 4(510):126
Changyi X, Lihua Z, Minzan L, Yuan C, Chunyan M
(2015) Apple detection from apple tree image based
on bp neural network and hough transform. Interna-
tional Journal of Agricultural and Biological Engi-
neering 8(6):46–53
Chen SS, Gopalakrishnan PS (1998) Clustering via the
bayesian information criterion with applications in
speech recognition. In: Acoustics, Speech and Signal
Processing, 1998. Proceedings of the 1998 IEEE In-
ternational Conference on, IEEE, vol 2, pp 645–648
Chen SW, Shivakumar SS, Dcunha S, Das J, Okon
E, Qu C, Taylor CJ, Kumar V (2017) Counting ap-
ples and oranges with deep learning: A data-driven
approach. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters
2(2):781–788
Chuang YY, Curless B, Salesin DH, Szeliski R (2001)
A bayesian approach to digital matting. In: Com-
puter Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2001. CVPR
2001. Proceedings of the 2001 IEEE Computer Soci-
ety Conference on, IEEE, vol 2, pp II–II
Das J, Cross G, Qu C, Makineni A, Tokekar P, Mul-
gaonkar Y, Kumar V (2015) Devices, systems, and
methods for automated monitoring enabling preci-
sion agriculture. In: Proceedings of IEEE Conference
on Automation Science and Engineering
Dong W, Isler V (2018) Tree morphology for phenotyp-
ing from semantics-based mapping in orchard envi-
ronments. Tech. rep., Technical Report TR-18-006,
University of Minnesota, Computer Science & Engi-
neering Department
Eshel R, Moses Y (2008) Homography based multiple
camera detection and tracking of people in a dense
crowd. In: Computer Vision and Pattern Recogni-
tion, 2008. CVPR 2008. IEEE Conference on, IEEE,

Vision-Based Preharvest Yield Mapping for Apple Orchards
21
pp 1–8
Gauch JM, Hsia CW (1992) Comparison of three-color
image segmentation algorithms in four color spaces.
In: Applications in optical science and engineering,
International Society for Optics and Photonics, pp
1168–1181
Goldberger J, Gordon S, Greenspan H, et al. (2003)
An eﬃcient image similarity measure based on ap-
proximations of kl-divergence between two gaussian
mixtures. In: ICCV, vol 3, pp 487–493
Gongal A, Silwal A, Amatya S, Karkee M, Zhang Q,
Lewis K (2016) Apple crop-load estimation with over-
the-row machine vision system. Computers and Elec-
tronics in Agriculture 120:26–35
Grunwald P (2004) A tutorial introduction to the min-
imum description length principle. arXiv preprint
math/0406077
Hariharan B, Arbel´aez P, Girshick R, Malik J (2014)
Simultaneous detection and segmentation. In: Euro-
pean Conference on Computer Vision, Springer, pp
297–312
Hartigan JA, Wong MA (1979) Algorithm as 136:
A k-means clustering algorithm. Journal of the
Royal Statistical Society Series C (Applied Statistics)
28(1):100–108
Hecht-Nielsen R (1989) Theory of the backpropagation
neural network. In: Neural Networks, 1989. IJCNN.,
International Joint Conference on, IEEE, pp 593–605
Hung C, Underwood J, Nieto J, Sukkarieh S (2015)
A feature learning based approach for automated
fruit yield estimation. In: Field and Service Robotics,
Springer, pp 485–498
Jimenez A, Ceres R, Pons J (2000) A survey of com-
puter vision methods for locating fruit on trees.
Transactions of the ASAE-American Society of Agri-
cultural Engineers 43(6):1911–1920
Linker R, Cohen O, Naor A (2012) Determination of
the number of green apples in rgb images recorded in
orchards. Comput Electron Agric 81:45–57
Liu X, Zhao D, Jia W, Ruan C, Tang S, Shen T (2016)
A method of segmenting apples at night based on
color and position information. Computers and Elec-
tronics in Agriculture 122:118–123
Long J, Shelhamer E, Darrell T (2015) Fully convolu-
tional networks for semantic segmentation. In: Pro-
ceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition, pp 3431–3440
Lowe DG (1999) Object recognition from local scale-
invariant features. In: Computer vision, 1999. The
proceedings of the seventh IEEE international con-
ference on, Ieee, vol 2, pp 1150–1157
Pedersen SJK (2007) Circular hough transform. Aal-
borg University, Vision, Graphics, and Interactive
Systems 123
Roy P, Isler V (2016) Surveying apple orchards with
a monocular vision system. In: Automation Science
and Engineering (CASE), 2016 IEEE International
Conference on, IEEE, pp 916–921
Roy P, Isler V (2017) Vision-based apple counting and
yield estimation. In: Kuli´c D, Nakamura Y, Khatib
O, Venture G (eds) 2016 International Symposium on
Experimental Robotics, Springer International Pub-
lishing, Cham, pp 478–487
Roy P, Dong W, Isler V (2018) Registering recon-
structions of the two sides of fruit tree rows. Tech.
rep., Technical Report TR-18-008, University of Min-
nesota, Computer Science & Engineering Depart-
ment
Ruzon MA, Tomasi C (2000) Alpha estimation in
natural images. In: Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, 2000. Proceedings. IEEE Conference on,
IEEE, vol 1, pp 18–25
Senthilnath J, Dokania A, Kandukuri M, Ramesh K,
Anand G, Omkar S (2016) Detection of tomatoes us-
ing spectral-spatial methods in remotely sensed rgb
images captured by uav. Biosystems Engineering
Silwal A, Gongal A, Karkee M (2014) Apple identiﬁ-
cation in ﬁeld environment with over the row ma-
chine vision system. Agricultural Engineering Inter-
national: CIGR Journal 16(4):66–75
Sinha SN, Steedly DE, Szeliski RS (2014) Multi-stage
linear structure from motion. US Patent 8,837,811
Stein M, Bargoti S, Underwood J (2016) Image
based mango fruit detection, localisation and yield
estimation using multiple view geometry. Sensors
16(11):1915
Tabb AL, Peterson DL, Park J (2006) Segmentation
of apple fruit from video via background modeling.
In: 2006 ASAE Annual Meeting, American Society of
Agricultural and Biological Engineers, p 1
Wang Q, Nuske S, Bergerman M, Singh S (2013) Au-
tomated crop yield estimation for apple orchards. In:
Desai JP, Dudek G, Khatib O, Kumar V (eds) Ex-
perimental Robotics, Springer Tracts in Advanced
Robotics, vol 88, Springer International Publishing,
pp 745–758
Zhou R, Damerow L, Sun Y, Blanke MM (2012) Using
colour features of cv.‘gala’ apple fruits in an orchard
in image processing to predict yield. Precision Agri-
culture 13(5):568–580
