Active View Planning for Counting Apples in Orchards
Pravakar Roy and Volkan Isler
Abstract— We consider an agricultural automation scenario
where a robot, equipped with a camera mounted on a manip-
ulator, is charged with counting the number of apples in an
orchard. We focus on the subtask of planning views so as to
accurately estimate the number of apples in an apple cluster.
We present a method to efﬁciently enumerate combinatorially
distinct world models and to compute the most likely model
from one or more views. These are incorporated into single and
multi-step planners. We evaluate these planners in simulation
as well as with experiments on a real robot.
I. INTRODUCTION
Yield mapping is emerging as an important task in agri-
cultural automation [1]–[4]. Current systems for automated
yield mapping involve the capture of imagery along an
arbitrary and/or predetermined path. This approach is sufﬁ-
cient for large commercial orchards which have “fruit-walls”
where the fruits are visible from the outside and the clusters
contain a small number of fruits. However, in more general
settings, estimating the exact count from an arbitrary view
is difﬁcult. See Figure 1.
In this work, we show how active vision techniques can
be used to accurately obtain the number of apples in a
cluster. Consider a system where a robot equipped with a
controllable camera is charged with surveying an orchard
(Fig. 1 (rightmost image)). Imagine that the robot positions
the base near a tree and obtains the ﬁrst view of an apple
cluster. Where should it take the second image from so as
to accurately estimate the number of apples in the cluster?
We study this novel active perception problem.
Our approach can be summarized as follows: Consider
the set of all possible “world states” where each world state
encodes the position and diameter of each apple. The images
acquired by the robot can be used to associate likelihoods
to these world views. The goal is to plan views that reduce
the entropy of this distribution sufﬁciently so that we can
estimate the count accurately. Directly enumerating all such
world states is computationally expensive: In a 1m×1m×1m
volume, a 1cm resolution grid would have 106 cells. Even if
we assume that the diameter is ﬁxed, for a cluster of 6 apples,
there would be 1036 hypotheses. Our main contributions in
this work are (1) a technique to efﬁciently enumerate only
combinatorially distinct world states, and (2) a method to
estimate their likelihoods from images. We experimentally
demonstrate that together these methods yield an efﬁcient
view planning method for counting spherical objects which
can be used in other agricultural applications.
The authors are with the Department of Computer Science and
Engineering,
University
of
Minnesota,
Minneapolis,
MN,
USA.
{royxx268,isler}@umn.edu.
The paper is organized as follows: We present an overview
of related work in section
II. In section III, we present
our system description, which is followed by the problem
formulation in section IV. From section V to section VI, we
present our technical approach which includes generating the
world models and planning for the next best view. We present
our simulation and indoor experiment results in section VII
followed by the conclusion and future work.
Fig. 1: A single view of a cluster can be deceiving (First
three images from left). The ﬁrst view suggests that there
are three apples, the second one suggests ﬁve and ﬁnally
from a bottom up view we see that there are actually six
apples in the cluster. The rightmost image shows our platform
for automating different precision agriculture and phenomics
operation.
II. RELATED WORK
In active vision, the parameters of a camera are actively
controlled so as to improve the performance of the vision
system [5]. One of the fundamental problems in active vision
is view planning to improve coverage
[6]. Recently, there
has been increasing activity to scale up active perception
to sensing tasks over longer periods of time and in larger
environments [7]. Recent work in this area is concerned with
object detection and classiﬁcation [8]–[10]. In the context of
agricultural applications, most of the work on yield mapping
does not involve active perception [1]–[4]. Related to our
work, Baur et al. [11] designed a heuristic based algorithm
for trajectory generation for apple picking. Underwood et
al. [12] developed a system for weed removal. In this work,
we explicitly address the occlusions among objects (the
apples) and present representations and planning algorithms
to estimate their count.
III. SYSTEM DESCRIPTION
Our system consists of a monocular camera mounted on
a robotic manipulator which is ﬁxed on a ground robot
(Fig. 1 (rightmost image)). Our long-term target is to develop
algorithms enabling this platform to traverse the orchard
rows autonomously and collect useful data for phenomics

and precision agriculture. This paper focuses speciﬁcally on
close up view planning for fruit counting using the camera
mounted on the manipulator. We assume that the camera
is calibrated. The robot pose [wRr|tr] and the camera pose
[wRc|tc] are known with respect to world frame {w}. From
this camera {c} mounted on a robotic manipulator {r} and
facing an apple cluster A, we want to compute a sequence
of of viewpoints to place the camera to correctly predict the
number of apples. We assume that we have a rough estimate
(dest) of the working distance (distance from the camera to
the apple cluster). Using this estimate, we deﬁne a viewing
sphere S centered at the center of A and having radius dest.
As the viewing sphere is around the cluster center, we can
only operate in the hemisphere facing the camera which is in
the reachable workspace of the robot. We place m viewpoints
V = {v1, v2, . . . , vm} in the frontal hemisphere of S. Fig. 2
shows an example of one such viewing sphere (left image)
and the viewpoints placed on it(right image). The ellipsoids
inside the viewing sphere are colored randomly for clarity
of understanding and have no other signiﬁcance.
Fig. 2: We deﬁne the center of our viewing sphere to be
the perceived center of the apple cluster under observation.
The radius is set as the estimated distance from camera to
the cluster center. Figure on left shows the viewing sphere,
the ellipsoidal fruits inside it (the fruits inside the cluster are
colored randomly for identiﬁcation purposes) and the blue
line joining camera center to the cluster center. Figure on
the right, shows the placed viewpoints (red dots).
IV. PROBLEM FORMULATION
In this section, we formalize the problem deﬁnition for
intra-cluster view planning. The term, “intra-cluster” means
that at any speciﬁc time instant we are only planning
views for one particular cluster. We will represent the
apples in 3D space by their enclosing ellipsoids e. Let
A = {e1, e2, . . . en} represent an apple cluster of size n in
world space. The condition for apples being in a cluster
is that the maximum distance between any two enclosing
ellipsoids ei, ej where i, j ∈[1, n] has to be bounded. As
mentioned before, we assume that we have an approximate
estimate of the working distance dest from the camera to
the cluster A. Given this, we deﬁne our view planning
problem as the following
Problem Statement: Given an initial image I1 and an
approximate distance from camera to the cluster A, compute
the next best view vk, so as to minimize the entropy of our
set of world hypotheses W,
arg min
vk
H(W|Iv1, Ivk) = arg min
vk
−P (W|Iv1, Ivk)
log P (W|Iv1, Ivk)
(1)
where vk ∈V and it is not the initial view point.
V. GENERATING WORLD MODELS
In the previous section, we formulated the problem
as computing a viewpoint that minimizes the entropy
H(W|Iv1, Ivk). The ﬁrst and most important step for our
view planning strategy is generating a complete set of world
hypotheses W. They must cover all possible geometric con-
ﬁgurations for a maximum cluster size to ensure convergence
to the correct fruit count.
Instead of enumerating all possible ellipsoids (which can
be computationally prohibitive), we utilize a small set of
combinatorial models in terms of visible and occluded apples
which does not have any position and orientation associated
with it. This combinatorial representation of fruits is our
main contribution in this paper. We convert these models to
physical world models using image based measurements. In
this section, we present the details of the world model gen-
eration procedure. We start by introducing the combinatorial
world models.
A. Combinatorial World Models
Two models are combinatorially equivalent if the number
of visible and occluded apples from the orthographic frontal
view are equal. Figure
3(b) shows two such models. We
assume that the initial view obtained by the camera is the
view from the frontal plane. According to our assumption
W
= {w1, w2, . . . , wp}, is a set of all possible world
models and where wi = {ewi
1 , ewi
2 , ewi
3 . . . ewi
n }, is a set
of n ellipsoids in world space where i ∈[1, p] and n ∈
[1, maxClusterSize].
We ﬁx the cluster size n and generate our world models
in terms of occluded and visible apples. Initially, we assume
that each visible apple can occlude only one other apple. The
occluded apples cannot further occlude other apples. Later,
we show how to extend this approach to the case where
occluded apples are allowed to occlude other apples. Under
the current assumption, there are only two layers: visible and
occluded. The maximum number of occluded apples aoc and
minimum number of visible apples avis, for cluster size n
and number of layers L = 2 is
aoc =
l n
L
m
avis = n −
l n
L
m
By varying the number of visible apples (i.e the apples in
layer 1) from 1 to n we can generate all possible models
for this particular cluster size n. The total number of models
for cluster size n is actually,
 L+aoc−1
aoc

= aoc. In practice,
this assumption of one occlusion layer (i.e L = 2) holds for
most apple clusters.

(a) Combinatorial models for
cluster size = 3
(b)
Two
combinatorially
equivalent models
Fig. 3: Combinatorial Models. Fig.(a) shows the combinato-
rial models for clusters of maximum size three. It shows that
there is six model in total with no restriction on the number
of occlusion layers. If we restrict the number of occlusion
level to one, the last model is eliminated. Right image shows
two combinatorially equivalent views
We can easily extend the current method for the cases of
multiple occlusion layers. Again, we assume that each apple
can occlude just one apple. When the number of occluded
apples is 1, or n −1 where n is the cluster size, the number
of models is trivially one. From the previous paragraph, we
know that when the number of layers L = 2, the total number
of models is
 1+aoc
aoc

. For cases where L > 2 and 1 < aoc <
n −1 we ﬁnd the models by using a recursive divide and
conquer strategy. We subdivide occluded apples as visible
and hidden for L ≥2, decrease the occlusion level by 1 until
we reach one of the base cases and combine the solutions
together.
It should be noted that these models are not concerned
with the actual locations or sizes of the apples. Their
purpose is to capture the combinatorial structure of the
clusters in terms of visible and occluded apples and occlusion
hierarchy. Consequently, the models only need a tag for
visible/occluded and a layer number. For the rest of the paper,
we refer to these models as combinatorial world models.
Figure 3(a) shows combinatorial world models for maximum
cluster size three.
B. Sensing from Individual Images
For predicting next best views and to relate the combina-
torial models to actual images we need to have a sensing
method for individual images and actual physical models
corresponding to each of the combinatorial model. For
sensing from singular input images, we utilize our previous
work [3]. There, we exploited the idea of the images being
generated from a two-dimensional world model (probability
distribution). Each apple in the input image is modelled by
a Gaussian probability distribution function (pdf) and apple
clusters are modelled as mixture of Gaussian.
For a given image and a particular size of input clusters,
this method provides us with the tentative pixel location and
pixel size for each apple and a likelihood of that cluster
size being optimal. Essentially, our sensing method provides
us with the likelihood of a certain number of apples being
visible in the input image. In the next section, we look at
how we can combine this information with the combinatorial
world models and associate position and orientation to them.
C. From Combinatorial Models to World Models with Posi-
tion and Orientation
Each of our combinatorial world models contains a
nonzero number of visible apples and a few occluded apples.
The sensing model provides us with an estimate of the visible
apples in the image. We backproject this apples and utilize
estimated depth dest to obtain their tentative 3D location.
The sensing estimate provides only diameters across x and
y axis. We assume the diameter of the ellipsoid along the
z axis is average of the x, y axis diameter. Following this
procedure for all the combinatorial models, we obtain a
physical model corresponding to each of the visible apples in
the combinatorial models. Now, we need to associate position
and orientation to the occluded apples. We place the occluded
apples exactly behind the visible apples, following a left
to right order. For the case of multiple level occlusion, an
apple can occupy a place in a higher occlusion level if all
the corresponding places in the lower occlusion levels are
ﬁlled. The sensing model only provide us with likelihoods
of the visible apples. To generate the likelihoods for models
with occlusion we utilize the penalty and reward function
described in [3]. The occluded apples do not contribute
anything to the reward function and consequently they are
just penalized for the increasing number of components.
Therefore, by adding the penalty for the occluded apples to
the likelihood of the visible apples we obtain the likelihood
of the world models with occlusion. Figure 4 shows an
example of the generated world models for three apples.
Fig. 4: World hypotheses generated from combinatorial mod-
els for three apples.
VI. VIEW PLANNING
In this section, we present the details of our view planning
approach. We show how to determine the next best view
point from the current information, how to update the pos-
terior probabilities of the world models after each additional
view and the termination criteria to be checked on each
iteration.
At each viewpoint, the camera provides us an image
of the apple cluster, Ivj(A), wherevj is the jth viewpoint.
Let, v1, v2, . . . vk be the viewpoints we have chosen so far.
Therefore, the next best view should be chosen so that it

minimizes the entropy of the entire set of world hypotheses
W. Equation (1) has the following general form
arg min
vk+1
p
X
i=1
−P
 wi|Iv1, Iv2, . . . IvkIvk+1

log P
 wi|Iv1, Iv2, . . . IvkIvk+1

(2)
Now
we
take
a
closer
look
at
the
term
P (wi|Iv1, Iv2, . . . Ivk)
and
see
how
we
can
evaluate
it.
P (wi|Iv1, Iv2, . . . Ivk) = P (Iv1, Iv2, . . . Ivk|wi) P (wi)
P (Iv1, Iv2, . . . Ivk)
≈P (Iv1|wi) P (Iv2|wi) . . . P (Ivk|wi) P (wi)
(3)
In equation (3), the conditional independence of the terms
of form P (Ivk|wi) follows from the fact that, for a ﬁxed
world hypothesis wi the camera views depend only on wi
and are independent of each other. However, for choos-
ing the next best view (equation (2)), we cannot evaluate
P
 Ivk+1|wi

. This is because we have not yet seen Ivk+1.
For this case, we generate a utility value for viewpoint vk+1
based on the expected number of occluded and visible apples
for world model wi (described in details in section VI-A).
A. Next Best View Planning
For predicting the next viewpoint, we need to evalu-
ate the utility of each of the possible candidate views.
Let Vc = {vk+1, vk+2, . . . vk+r} be the set of candidate
viewpoints. For each of this view points vk+j, j ∈[1, r],
we generate an image of each of our world hypotheses
wi. Our physical world models consist of ellipsoids wi =
{ewi
1 , ewi
2 , ewi
3 . . . ewi
n }. We represent each of them in a
quadric format which allows us to compute their projection
quickly. While projecting, we sort the quadric by their depth
order and compute the overlap between the projected ellipses.
Following this procedure, we determine the visibility of each
ellipsoid in the resulting image. If more than 20% of a
projected ellipse is not occluded by any other we mark
it as visible. Performing this operation for each viewpoint
vk+j and world model wi we can determine the visible and
occluded fruits for each view point for each world model
wi. We build two tables, visModel, occModel, of dimension
m × p where m is the total number of viewpoints and p is
the total number of world models.
visModel(i, j) = visible apples generated by
wj from vi
occModel(i, j) = occluded apples generated by
wj from view point vi
We deﬁne the utility of a view in terms of these visibility
and occlusion models by building a similar table which we
refer to as the utilityModel.
utilityModel(i, j) =
visModel (i, j)
occModel(i, j) + visModel (i, j)
Following the computation of this table, we normalize the
utilities across all the view points to obtain a probability
distribution of the utility for each world model. The next best
view is found from these computed utilities. We consider two
methods for this step. First, we plan for a single view that
minimizes the entropy of our hypotheses set W. Second, we
plan for a sequence of views which must be taken to verify
the all different conﬁgurations of visible and occluded apples
from our hypotheses set. It should be noted that regardless
of the single/ multiple step planning we make one move
at time(for multiple step - the ﬁrst view in the sequence),
recompute the posterior probabilities of world hypotheses
and plan for the next view using the single/multiple step
method. We start with the single step planning.
(a) Viewpoints chosen by single step view planning
(b) Posterior probability distribution of the world hypotheses
Fig. 5: Sample result from simulations. We randomly gen-
erated a 3D model of four apples. Our multiple step view
planning algorithm selected three more views before con-
verging to a world model with correct world counts
1) Planning Single Step at a Time: For single step plan-
ning we can directly use equation (2). For any candidate view
point vk+1, and the hallucinated image Ivk+1 (generated by
projecting world model wi to the camera at view point vk+1),
P
 wi|Iv1, Iv2, . . . Ivk, Ivk+1

≈P (Iv1|wi) P (Iv2|wi) . . . P (Ivk|wi) P
 Ivk+1|wi

P (wi)
= P (wi|Iv1, Iv2, . . . Ivk, ) utilityModel(k + 1, i)
(4)
We replace this value in equation (2), after normalizing the
values across all the view points.
2) Planning Multiple Steps: A simple way to do, multiple
step planning is to plan a ﬁxed number of views together.
Essentially, it means considering
 m
k

candidates, where k is

the number of views to be planned together and m is the
cardinality of the viewpoint sets. Consequently, it involves
multiplying k−1 additional utility values to equation (4) and
evaluating equation (2).
Instead of focusing on maximizing the number of visible
apples, we can uncover the geometry of all possible world
hypotheses from different view points. This is our second
strategy for multiple step planning. For this, we ﬁnd different
conﬁgurations of visible and occluded apples from different
viewpoints. Then we group the viewpoints for a particular
world hypothesis wi by the number of visible apples. Next,
we ﬁnd the maximum cardinality of these groups for all the
world hypotheses and use this maximum cardinality g as
the number of views to be planned together. We generate
the candidate viewpoint sequence like the previous method
and evaluate them in terms of the covered conﬁgurations
of visible and occluded apples. The view sequences with
the maximum score are evaluated using equation
(2) and
the best sequence is selected. The performance of the single
and multiple step methods have been evaluated in terms of
convergence and the average number of views required to
converge. Figure 6 shows the results. We see that the multiple
step method outperforms the single step method for cluster
sizes 5 −9. We explain the results further in section VII.
B. Updating the Posterior Probabilities of the World Model
and Convergence Criterion
In this section we discuss, how we can incorporate infor-
mation from new views to our world models. Essentially,
with each additional view the posterior probabilities of our
world models are updated. Suppose we have taken measure-
ments from viewpoints v1, v2, . . . vk, and have chosen vk+1
as our next measurement location. Then the posterior for
world model wi is updated as follows
P
 wi|Iv1, Iv2, . . . IvkIvk+1

≈
P (Iv1|wi) P (Iv2|wi) . . . P (Ivk|wi) P
 Ivk+1|wi

P (wi)
(5)
The exact value of the posterior is found by normalizing
the likelihood across all the world models. Before we can
apply equation (5) we need to resolve one more issue. Our
sensing model does not directly provide the quantities of
the form P (Ivk|wi). Instead, it provides the likelihood of a
certain number of apples being visible in the input image.
For the particular world model under consideration, we need
to ﬁnd the expected number of visible apples from the
visibility model that was constructed in the previous section.
After this step, we can associate the sensing likelihoods with
P (Ivk|wi)
We use the reduction in posterior entropy coupled with
the difference between the successive peaks of the posterior
as our termination criteria.
VII. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
To verify our algorithms, we conducted tests both in
simulations and indoor environment. During the winter time
there are no apples on the trees and therefore ﬁeld experi-
ments were not possible. However, indoor experiments were
arranged by using a realistic artiﬁcial apple tree (Figure 7a).
For both simulation and indoor environments we assume that
the fruit detection problem has been solved (i.e. we can locate
fruit clusters in the input image). As currently there exists
no method for actively planning views for counting apples,
we compared our results against a lower bound provided by
orthographic cameras. We also compared the performance of
the single and multi-step view planning strategy.
A. Comparison with Lower Bounds from an Orthographic
Camera Using Cardinal Views
An orthographic camera can unfold the visible geometry of
any object with six cardinal views: front, back, top, bottom,
right and left. These views are often used in engineering
drawings to capture the scale of objects. Essentially, an
orthographic camera can compute the number of apples
(visible from at least one view) in any cluster size with
six views maximally. Given a ﬁxed cluster size, we use the
number of views required by an orthographic camera to be
the lower bound for the number of views. For single apples,
two perpendicular views are necessary to make sure that
there is only a single apple. For two apples, we need three
mutually perpendicular views, for three and four apples we
need four and ﬁve views. For ﬁve or more apples six cardinal
views are required. For orthographic cameras this bound is
tight.
B. Simulation Results
We developed a simulation system using MATLAB for
testing purposes. We use sets of randomly generated ellip-
soids as the apples and simulate a camera with 40 ◦ﬁeld
of view for capturing the images. To simulate the estimated
depth from camera to the apple cluster we added Gaussian
noise to the actual distance(σ = 1, µ = 0). Using the
estimated distance and estimated cluster center from image
based measurements we deﬁne a viewing sphere (Figure. 2.
Then 25 viewpoints are placed on the frontal hemisphere fac-
ing the camera. Using our world model generation procedure
described in section V, we generate a set of world hypotheses
W and predict the next best view points using single step and
multiple step planning strategies. Here, we present simulation
results for cluster size ranging from [1, 10]. We created 20
instances for each cluster size and computed the number of
views required to converge for the single step and multiple
step strategies. Figure 6 shows the comparison of the single
step and multiple step strategy along with the orthographic
lower bound and convergence plot. We see that the multiple
step planner outperforms the single step planner for cluster
sizes 5 −9 (Fig. 6(a)). We see that for the large cluster
sizes both planners have a higher chance of converging to
wrong cluster size. This is attributed to our sensing model.
In our previous work [3] we showed that, the accuracy of
the likelihoods provided by our sensing model drops with
increasing cluster size. However, in practice large clusters

are not very common and therefore handling them with 90%
convergence is quite acceptable.
(a) Single step and multi-
step view planning with or-
thographic lower bound
(b) Convergence to the correct
world model
Fig. 6: Simulation Results
C. Indoor Experiments
For the indoor experiments we use an artiﬁcial apple tree
and synthetic apples. Figure 7 shows our experimental setup
and how our algorithm performs in one of the experiments.
The cluster under observation (Figure 7(b)) has three apples,
but none of the views shows all of them. Our multi step
planning algorithm plans the views required and converges
to the correct world model containing three apples in four
views.
VIII. CONCLUSION
In this paper, we considered a view planning task where
the goal is to choose views so as to accurately count the
number of fruits in a cluster. We presented an approach
where the fruit are represented as ellipsoids. The number of
ellipsoids, as well as their parameters (location and dimen-
sions) constitute a world hypothesis. Rather than enumerating
all possible world hypotheses, which is computationally
prohibitive, we show how combinatorially distinct world
hypotheses (regarding the visibility relationship between
the apples) can be enumerated. Additionally, we present a
likelihood function which associates a probability with each
(a) Experimental Setup (b) Planned Views. None of them shows
all three apples clearly.
(c) Posterior Probabilities of the World Model. The conﬁguration
of visible and hidden apples in the models {1, 2, 3, 4, 5} are
{(1, 0), (1, 1), (2, 0), (3, 0), (2, 1)}
Fig. 7: Indoor Experiments
world hypothesis for a given view and propose greedy and
multi-step planners which choose viewpoints to minimize the
entropy of the posterior. These planners are implemented and
evaluated both in simulation and in an indoor experimental
setup. Our results indicate that for larger cluster size 5 −9
the multi-step planner performs better than the single step
planner.The results from simulations and indoor experiments
are similar. It can be attributed to the fact that most of the
difﬁculties in real world scenes are in sensing from individual
images which is taken care of by our sensing model. In our
future work, we plan to evaluate the system in an orchard
during apple season (July – September in Minnesota) and
also plan for the motion of the robot base.
IX. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
The authors thank Professors Emily Hoover, Cindy Tong
and James Luby from Department of Horticultural Science,
University of Minnesota, for their expertise and help with the
experiments. Special thanks to Nicolai Haeni for help with
experimental set up, camera and hand eye calibration.
REFERENCES
[1] Q. Wang, S. Nuske, M. Bergerman, and S. Singh, “Automated
crop yield estimation for apple orchards,” in Experimental Robotics,
ser. Springer Tracts in Advanced Robotics, J. P. Desai, G. Dudek,
O. Khatib, and V. Kumar, Eds.
Springer International Publishing,
2013, vol. 88, pp. 745–758.
[2] S. Bargoti and J. P. Underwood, “Image segmentation for fruit
detection and yield estimation in apple orchards,” CoRR, vol.
abs/1610.08120, 2016. [Online]. Available: http://arxiv.org/abs/1610.
08120
[3] P. Roy and V. Isler, “Vision-based apple counting and yield estima-
tion,” in Experimental Robotics.
Springer, 2016.
[4] ——, “Surveying apple orchards with a monocular vision system,”
in Automation Science and Engineering (CASE), 2016 IEEE Interna-
tional Conference on.
IEEE, 2016, pp. 916–921.
[5] R. Bajcsy, “Active perception,” Proceedings of the IEEE, vol. 76, no. 8,
pp. 966–1005, 1988.
[6] W. R. Scott, G. Roth, and J.-F. Rivest, “View planning for automated
three-dimensional object reconstruction and inspection,” ACM Com-
puting Surveys (CSUR), vol. 35, no. 1, pp. 64–96, 2003.
[7] R. Bajcsy, Y. Aloimonos, and J. K. Tsotsos, “Revisiting active per-
ception,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1603.02729, 2016.
[8] N. Atanasov, B. Sankaran, J. Le Ny, G. J. Pappas, and K. Daniilidis,
“Nonmyopic view planning for active object classiﬁcation and pose
estimation,” IEEE Transactions on Robotics, vol. 30, no. 5, pp. 1078–
1090, 2014.
[9] C. Potthast and G. S. Sukhatme, “A probabilistic framework for next
best view estimation in a cluttered environment,” Journal of Visual
Communication and Image Representation, vol. 25, no. 1, pp. 148–
164, 2014.
[10] T. Patten, W. Martens, and R. Fitch, “Monte carlo planning for active
object classiﬁcation,” Autonomous Robots, pp. 1–31, 2017.
[11] J. Baur, C. Sch¨utz, J. Pfaff, T. Buschmann, and H. Ulbrich, “Path
planning for a fruit picking manipulator,” in Proceedings International
Conference of Agricultural Engineering, Z¨urich, Switzerland, 2014.
[12] J. Underwood, M. Calleija, Z. Taylor, C. Hung, J. Nieto, R. Fitch,
and S. Sukkarieh, “Real-time target detection and steerable spray for
vegetable crops,” in proceedings, Workshop on Robotics in Agriculture
at International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA),
2015.
