See discussions, stats, and author profiles for this publication at: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/308457737
Vision-Based Apple Counting and Yield Estimation
Conference Paper · October 2016
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-50115-4_42
CITATIONS
19
READS
643
2 authors:
Some of the authors of this publication are also working on these related projects:
Crossing the Reality Gap View project
SURVEYING AND SERVOING AS CANONICAL TASKS TO ENABLE FUTURE FARMS WITH COMMERCIAL OFF-THE-SHELF ROBOTS View project
Pravakar Roy
Microsoft AI and Research
22 PUBLICATIONS   285 CITATIONS   
SEE PROFILE
Volkan Isler
University of Minnesota Twin Cities
224 PUBLICATIONS   4,746 CITATIONS   
SEE PROFILE
All content following this page was uploaded by Pravakar Roy on 01 February 2019.
The user has requested enhancement of the downloaded file.

Vision-Based Apple Counting
and Yield Estimation
Pravakar Roy(B) and Volkan Isler
Department of Computer Science, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA
{proy,isler}@cs.umn.edu
Abstract. We present a novel method for yield estimation in apple
orchards. Our method takes segmented and registered images of apple
clusters as input. It outputs number and location of individual apples
in each cluster. Our primary technical contributions are a representa-
tion based on a mixture of Gaussians, and a novel selection criterion to
choose the number of components in the mixture. The method is exper-
imentally veriﬁed on four diﬀerent datasets using images acquired by
a vision platform mounted on an aerial robot, a ground vehicle and a
hand-held device. The accuracy of the counting algorithm itself is 91%.
It achieves 81–85% accuracy coupled with segmentation and registration
which is signiﬁcantly higher than existing image based methods.
1
Introduction
For specialty farms such as apple orchards, crucial decisions such as choosing the
number of pickers, the number of storage bins and early season sales contracts
depend on estimating fruit count. In this paper, we present a method for counting
apples from images of an orchard row. The images can be captured from various
types of robotic and non-robotic platforms such as ground or aerial robots or a
person carrying a hand-held camera.
Counting apples from a running sequence of images is diﬃcult for three main
reasons. First, there is a trade-oﬀbetween image footprint and the size of indi-
vidual apples in the image. If we use close-up views, coverage becomes tedious.
On the other hand, if we use a wide-angle camera, individual apples occupy
only a small area in images. Second, apples can be found in arbitrarily shaped
clusters in which almost all apples overlap with each other. Segmenting individ-
ual apples from such cluster images is challenging. Third, because of occlusions
due to leaves and branches as well as specularities sometimes apples are not
detectable at all.
Surprisingly, most robotic yield estimation systems do not focus on accurate
counting. Instead, these systems rely on developing a consistent estimator of
actual fruit count. These methods include Wang et al. [1] who used morpholog-
ical operations and ellipse ﬁtting for counting. Their method does not handle
more than two apples in a cluster. Hung et al. [2] relied on circular Hough
transformation to extract individual apples. Linker et al. [3] presented a method
c
⃝Springer International Publishing AG 2017
D. Kuli´c et al. (eds.), 2016 International Symposium on Experimental Robotics,
Springer Proceedings in Advanced Robotics 1, DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-50115-4 42

Apple Counting and Yield Estimation
479
(a) Original Image
(b) Single Apples
(c) Apple Clusters
(d) Detected apples by
the greedy method
(e)
Detected
apples
by
GMM method
Fig. 1. A sample image and few example apple clusters. Figure (b) shows two example
single apples. These apples can be detected easily by state of the art methods such as
circular Hough transform or ellipse ﬁtting. It is hard to generalize these methods for
more complex clusters shown in ﬁgure (c). Figure (d) shows a sample output from the
greedy circle ﬁtting method. Figure (e) shows the output of GMM method on the same
input.
based on fruit edge detection. This method requires very high resolution images.
All these techniques work for simple instances such as those shown in Fig. 1b. In
more challenging, yet common instances (see Fig. 1c), both Hough transform and
ellipse ﬁtting will fail. To identify the number of apples correctly and to locate
individual apples from these images we need novel models and techniques. In
this paper, we present two such methods: one for counting the apples based
on a classic clustering technique - Gaussian Mixture Models (GMM) [4] and
another using an intuitive greedy circle ﬁtting algorithm. The clustering tech-
nique is robust and accurate. The greedy method is identical to the state of the
art techniques such as circular Hough transform and ellipse ﬁtting. We use it as
a baseline for comparison with the performance of the GMM method.
Our method takes as input segmented apple images where non-apple pixels
have been eliminated. We also assume that the images have been registered
and apple clusters have been aligned across images. The details of segmentation
and registration of apples across multiple images can be found in our earlier
work [5,6]. In this paper, we focus on the following problem: Given a set of
segmented registered apple images, count the number of individual fruits in the
images and identify their locations. We start with our technical approach in the
next section.
2
Technical Approach
Given a set of segmented and registered input images, we want to ﬁnd the
number and location of all the apples in every image. In this section, we propose

480
P. Roy and V. Isler
two diﬀerent methods for solving this problem: ﬁrst using Gaussian Mixture
Models (GMM) and second based on greedy circle ﬁtting. The greedy circle
ﬁtting approach provides a baseline for comparison. As the ﬁrst step for both
methods, we perform a connected component analysis on the input image and
detect all the individual clusters. We compute the location and radius of each
apple in each cluster. As the clusters are disjoint the total number of apples can
be obtained by simply summing up the numbers across all clusters.
2.1
Gaussian Mixture Model Method
In the GMM method each apple is modelled by a Gaussian probability distribu-
tion function (pdf) and apple clusters are modelled as mixture of Gaussians. We
start by converting the input cluster image I to binary. Let this binary image
be denoted by Ib. The locations of the non-zero pixels in the binary image are
used as input to GMM.
Let X represent the set of apples we are trying to ﬁnd. Then, we can convert our
problem to a Gaussian mixture model formulation in the following way:
P(Ib|X) = Gk(φ, μ, Σ) =
k

i=1
φiGi(μi, Σi)
(1)
Here, Gk(φ, μ, Σ) is a Gaussian mixture model with k components, and Gi
is the i th component of the mixture. μi and Σi are the mean and covariance of
the ith component. The covariance matrix Σi =

σ2
xi, σ2
yi

is diagonal. φi is the
weight of the ith component where k
i=1 φi = 1 and 0 ≤φi ≤1.
Given model parameters θ = {φ, μ, Σ}, the problem of ﬁnding location of the
center of the apples and their pixel diameters can be formulated as computing
the world model which maximizes P(Ib|X). Each component Gi(μi, Σi) of the
mixture model represents an apple with center at μi, equatorial radius 2σxi and
axial radius 2σyi.
A common technique to solve for arg max P(Ib|X) is the expectation maxi-
mization (EM) algorithm [4]. As is well-known, EM provides us a local greedy
solution for the problem. Since EM is susceptible to local maxima, initializa-
tion is very important. We used MATLAB’s [7] implementation of K-means [8]
(which uses randomly-selected seeds to avoid local maxima) for initialization of
EM.
Selecting the Number of Components: In our problem formulation, the
number of components k is the total number of apples in image I. EM enables
us to ﬁnd the optimal location of the apples given the total number of apples k.
Our main technical contribution in this paper is a method to calculate the correct
k. Let the correct number of apples in the input image be denoted by κ. We tried
diﬀerent state of the art techniques (Akaike Information Criterion (AIC) [9], Min-
imum Description Length (MDL) [9] etc.) for ﬁnding κ. None of them worked out
of the box for our purposes (Fig. 2). Therefore, we propose a new heuristic app-
roach for evaluating mixture models with diﬀerent number of components based
on MDL. Unlike classic MDL based approaches we have both reward and penalty.

Apple Counting and Yield Estimation
481
Fig. 2. Popular methods like AIC/BIC do not work out of the box for our purposes.
These criteria have a tendency of choosing higher values of k. In this synthetic image,
we have only ﬁve circles but the AIC based criterion value (Bar plot in the middle)
was lowest for k = 6 and consequently it ﬁnds eight apples.
Let σmin = min(σxi, σyi) and σmax = max(σxi, σyi). Using the mean and
covariances of the i th component we deﬁne a 2D Gaussian kernel G(μi, σmax)
where σmax is the variance. Let P(μi) denote the response of the kernel when
placed at the center μi in the original input image I and Ci denote the total
number of pixels clustered by Gi(μi, Σi). For each component Gi(μi, Σi), of the
mixture model Gk(φ, μ, Σ) we deﬁne the reward Ri in the following way,
Ri(Gi) = φi

P(μi) + P(μi)
 σmin
σmax
2
+ P(μi)
Ci
πσmaxσmin
−1
3 (πσxiσyi −Ci)
	
(2)
For most of the images we only capture the frontal views of the apples,
which can be easily approximated by circles lying on a plane. All four terms in
Eq. (2) reward speciﬁc spatial characteristics of the Gaussian pdf related to this
fact. P(μi) represents the strength of the distribution in terms of pixel values
and is present in ﬁrst three terms. The second term rewards circular shaped
distributions using the eccentricity of the pdf. As the eccentricity ϵ =

1 −σ2
min
σ2
max ,
and for circles ϵ is zero, we use 1 −ϵ2 =

σmin
σmax
2
as the rewarding factor. The
third term rewards coverage. The fourth term penalizes Gaussian pdfs covering
large area and clustering very few points.
Now if we ﬁnd out the reward Ri(Gi(μi, Σi)) for all the components k, the
total reward for the mixture model Gk(φ, μ, Σ) can be computed by summing
them together.
Next, we deﬁne the penalty term. The traditional MDL penalty term is U =
cp log(|Y |) where p is the number of parameters in the model, |Y | is the total
size of the input data, and c =
1
2 is a constant. Based on this principle, our
penalty term is V (Gk(φ, μ, Σ)) is deﬁned as the following

482
P. Roy and V. Isler
V (Gk(φ, μ, Σ)) = c′(3k) log(

x
(Ib(x)̸ = 0)))
(3)
where x represents the pixel index across the image Ib. Compared to traditional
MDL based penalty we have the constant c′ =
3
2 instead of c =
1
2. This is
attributed to the fact that the reward expression (2) has three terms compared
to one. The number of components k is multiplied by three as each Gaussian has
three parameters [μi, σxi, σyi]. With these terms deﬁned, we choose the correct
number of components κ in the following way:
κ = arg max
k
R(Gk(φ, μ, Σ)) −V (Gk(φ, μ, Σ))
(4)
To have a better understanding of the selection procedure, we demonstrate
a synthetic example at Fig. 3(a). From Fig. 3(b), it is evident that except for
k = 6, other mixtures have low circularity. The coverage rewards and pixel
density components increase with k and converges to a steady state. While the
penalty from minimum description length principle increases with k, generally
the penalty for coverage decrease with k. In this example, the crucial factors
in determining the score are circularity and the coverage penalty. For k = 6
circularity is at the peak and coverage penalty is lowest and consequently the
score was maximum for k = 6. The plot of the corresponding rewards, penalties
and ﬁnal scores are shown in Fig. 3(b)–(d). We show sample results from our
datasets in Fig. 4.
2.2
Greedy Circle Fitting Method
The GMM method uses a global ﬁtting criterion to segment the apples. In this
section, we present a greedy approach which achieves reasonable performance
eﬃciently. In case of images containing single apple, with rough knowledge of
apple radius in terms of pixels, we can create Gaussian kernels of diﬀerent sizes
within the known bounds, convolve the entire image with them and ﬁnd the
maximum response location to ﬁnd the center of an apple. This concept can
be extended in case of images containing multiple apples. The ﬁrst apple is
chosen as the apple with maximum kernel response. Likewise, the second one
can be computed by choosing another apple, which combined with the previously
chosen one maximizes the total response of both. In this method, the order in
which the apples are selected deﬁnes an occlusion hierarchy. The response of
the combination multiple Gaussian kernels are computed using this hierarchy.
Figure 1(d) shows a detected apples on an input image from the greedy method.
It is unable to detect the partially visible apple. Figure 1(e) shows the output
of GMM method on the same input. It successfully ﬁnds the apple missed by
greedy method.

Apple Counting and Yield Estimation
483
(a) Predicted circles for diﬀerent number of components in GMM
(b) Rewards for diﬀerent
number of components
(c) Penalties for diﬀerent
number of components
(d) Final score for dif-
ferent number of compo-
nents
Fig. 3. A synthetic example consisting of six random circles and plots illustrating how
the number of components are selected. Figure (a) shows how the pdfs cover the circles
for diﬀerent values of k. Figure (b)–(d)shows how the score calculated from the rewards
and penalties following the right hand side of Eq. (4). The plot shows that the score is
maximum for k = 6 which is indeed the correct number of components.

484
P. Roy and V. Isler
Fig. 4. A sample output from GMM on real data.
3
Experimental Results
We have evaluated the performance of our counting algorithm on four diﬀerent
datasets. These datasets are obtained from diﬀerent platforms. The ﬁrst two
datasets are obtained from hand-held cameras, the third dataset from a camera
mounted on a ground vehicle and the fourth dataset from a camera mounted on
a ﬂying UAV. Figure 5 shows sample images from all four datasets.
Fig. 5. Sample images from used datasets. The two images on the left are obtained
from hand-held cameras. The third image from left is obtained from a camera mounted
on a ground vehicle and the rightmost image is obtained from camera mounted on a
UAV.
We ﬁrst evaluate the GMM method with the segmented apples clusters from
Dataset 3 (Fig. 1(b), (c)). We used 442 such images for this purpose, all of which
were hand counted. We identiﬁed clusters of diﬀerent sizes (Fig. 6(a)) and eval-
uated the performance of our algorithm in terms of accuracy, over counting and
under counting per cluster size (Fig. 6(b)). The over all accuracy for the entire
dataset is 91.30%. For clusters containing six or more apples, the percentage
of under counting goes up to 33.33%. The number of instances of such large
sized clusters were very low to make any strong inference about the performance
of the algorithm. We need further investigation to analyze the performance of
the algorithm in these cases. For single apples, we found 10% over counting.

Apple Counting and Yield Estimation
485
(a) The distribution
of
diﬀerent size clusters
(b) Performance of the GMM based counting method
across diﬀerent cluster size
(c) Performance of the counting pipeline for Dataset 1,2 and 4
Fig. 6. Performance evaluation.
This problem can be attributed to occlusion and specularities which make the
algorithm think that there are two apples instead of one.
Next, we evaluate the gross performance of our counting pipeline using the
Dataset 1 2 and 4. The gross results for Dataset 3 were not available at the time
of submission. Dataset 1 contains a mixture of red and green apples. The total
number of images in this dataset is 464. It covers a block in an orchard row con-
taining six trees. Dataset 2 primarily contains red apples. The total number of
images in this dataset is 964. It covers a full row in an orchard. Dataset 4 was
collected using an UAV. It contains 655 images and covers six trees. The total
number of hand counted apples from the images in the datasets are 258 and 952,
and 673 respectively. The accuracy of GMM counting method for ﬁrst and sec-
ond and fourth dataset is 81.3492%, 85.87% and 84.72%. The drop in accuracy
for the ﬁrst dataset is mainly attributed to our segmentation method [5] where
many green apples were not detected. Figure 6(c) shows a bar chart of the accu-
racy of our counting methods. We show the accuracy from the greedy method for
comparison. For the greedy counting method the accuracy drops down to 69.44%
for the ﬁrst dataset and 76.34% for the second dataset. This drop is expected as
the greedy method uses a hard threshold for grouping apple pixels. It fails when
the scale of the image varies a lot or apples are only partially visible.

486
P. Roy and V. Isler
4
Experimental Insights and Conclusion
In this paper, we presented a method for counting apples from segmented and
registered input images. While the results are encouraging, there is still room
for improvement. Speciﬁcally, since the results presented here constitute the
ﬁnal part of a three step pipeline, it is important for the previous steps to be
correct. For example, in Fig. 7(a), the counting procedure did not count any of
the green apples. The reason behind this is that they were not detected by our
color based segmentation method. The algorithm also fails to predict the correct
number of fruits when there is too much overlap and boundaries among diﬀerent
fruits are not detectable. To get better insight into this problem, we created a
synthetic input where the algorithm fails (Fig. 8). Here, the predicted number
of components by the algorithm is ﬁve but the actual number is six. A closer
look at the solution from EM algorithm for k = 6 shows that, actually EM
failed to ﬁnd out the correct location and pixel radius of fruits which resulted in
large coverage penalty and low circularity. These types of problems are present
in natural conditions too. One such observation is shown on Fig. 7(b). For these
types of scenarios, it is hard to predict the correct number of apples from a
single view. A natural way to resolve these ambiguities is to use active vision
(look at the cluster from another viewpoint). In future, we would like to use
the information obtained from single views, to move actively in more suitable
positions and fuse all the previously obtained information to predict the correct
number and locations of fruits.
(a) Missing Apples
(b) A case where EM fails
Fig. 7. A few failure cases in real data.

Apple Counting and Yield Estimation
487
Fig. 8. A synthetic input where the algorithm fails to compute k correctly. If we look
closely at the solution found by EM for the correct k, we ﬁnd that EM failed to ﬁnd
the correct location which resulted in large coverage penalty and low circularity.
Acknowledgments. This work is supported in part by NSF grant # 1317788, USDA
NIFA MIN-98-G02 and the MnDrive initiative.
References
1. Wang, Q., Nuske, S., Bergerman, M., Singh, S.: Automated crop yield estimation
for apple orchards. In: Desai, J.P., Dudek, G., Khatib, O., Kumar, V. (eds.) Exper-
imental Robotics. STAR, vol. 88, pp. 745–758. Springer, Heidelberg (2013)
2. Hung, C., Underwood, J., Nieto, J., Sukkarieh, S.: A feature learning based app-
roach for automated fruit yield estimation. In: Mejias, L., Corke, P., Roberts,
J. (eds.) Field and Service Robotics. STAR, vol. 105, pp. 485–498. Springer,
Heidelberg (2015). doi:10.1007/978-3-319-07488-7 33
3. Linker, R., Cohen, O., Naor, A.: Determination of the number of green apples in
RGB images recorded in orchards. Comput. Electron. Agric. 81, 45–57 (2012)
4. Bilmes, J.A., et al.: A gentle tutorial of the EM algorithm and its application to
parameter estimation for Gaussian mixture and hidden Markov models. Interna-
tional Computer Science Institute, vol. 4(510), p. 126 (1998)
5. Roy, P., Stefas, N., Peng, C., Bayram, H., Tokekar, P., Isler, V.: Robotic survey-
ing of apple orchards, University of Minnesota, Department of Computer Science,
Technical report, June 2015
6. Roy, P., Isler, V.: Surveying apple orchards with a monocular vision sysem. In: 2016
IEEE International Conference on Automation Science and Engineering (CASE),
pp. 1–6, August 2016
7. The MathWorks, Inc.: Matlab and statistics toolbox release 2015b (2015)
8. Hartigan, J.A., Wong, M.A.: Algorithm as 136: a k-means clustering algorithm. J.
R. Stat. Soc. Ser. C (Appl. Stat.) 28(1), 100–108 (1979)
9. Grunwald, P.: A tutorial introduction to the minimum description length principle.
arXiv preprint math/0406077 (2004)
View publication stats
View publication stats
