Surveying Apple Orchards with a Monocular Vision System
Pravakar Roy and Volkan Isler
Abstract— We present computer vision algorithms to collect
yield related information in an apple orchard using images
collected from a single camera. The goal of our system is
to give farmers the capability to use their phones or digital
cameras to record images and obtain yield related parameters.
There are two challenges in this setup which necessitate novel
methods: (i)
It is very difﬁcult to generate dense matches
using standard image features. (ii) The constrained geometry
of the setup causes existing structure from motion algorithms
to fail. We present a novel structure from motion technique to
register and reconstruct the apples which is used for extracting
count and diameter information. We validate our approach by
presenting results from multiple ﬁeld trials.
I. INTRODUCTION
Modern precision agriculture techniques are revolutioniz-
ing farming by enabling farmers to collect, on demand, high-
resolution data about the status of their crops. Access to
such data helps in decision making for irrigation, fertilizer
application, harvesting and sales. It also allows farmers to
detect fruit diseases and nutrient deﬁciencies. In this work,
we focus particularly on yield estimation in specialty farms
such as apple orchards. We present a convenient method with
which a farmer can collect images from a single camera (e.g.
using a phone as shown in Figure 1) and obtain information
regarding fruit count and size. Obtaining this information
before harvest allows the farmer to make decisions regarding
the number of pickers, the number of storage bins and
make sales contracts early in the season. The information
obtained also helps horticulture scientists by automating data
collection e.g. for phenotyping.
Extracting yield related data is challenging. As a result,
most existing methods operate under controlled lighting and
imaging conditions (for example, they operate at night with
artiﬁcial lighting). Others rely on stereo vision and active
sensors such as laser scanners. Such systems, reviewed in
Section II, are costly and not very convenient. The goal
of the work presented in this paper is to provide farmers
a mechanism to obtain yield-related data using only a single
camera. Undoubtedly, cameras are the most widely used and
one of the cheapest sensors available. Almost every phone
today has a high resolution color camera good enough for
data collection. We present computer vision techniques to
extract yield and count information from such images.
Estimating Structure from Motion (SfM) is a fundamental
problem in computer vision [1]. In a standard SfM pipeline
The authors are with the Department of Computer Science and
Engineering,
University
of
Minnesota,
Minneapolis,
MN,
USA.
{proy,isler}@cs.umn.edu.
This material is based upon work supported by the National Science
Foundation under Grant No. 1317788 and MnDrive RSAM initiative.
Fig. 1: An example usage of our system where a smartphone
is used for collecting images. Our system extracts apple
count and diameter information from such footage.
(Figure 3(a)) features such as Harris corners, SIFT [2] or
SURF [3] are detected and matched across images. These
matches are then used to estimate the geometry of the
scene. Such methods fail in our application for two reasons:
(i) Features: Often, point features such as SURF and SIFT
are not detected on apples. Even when found, in the presence
of occlusions and specularities these features can generate
zero or false matches. Remaining correct matches are too
sparse to estimate diameters. (ii) Geometry:
baseline SfM
methods fail to align dense apple clusters across multiple
frames resulting in the same apple being registered multiple
times (Figure 4).
Our primary contribution is a novel SfM pipeline where
apple contours are directly used for generating dense point
matches. These matches are then used for estimating the mo-
tion of the camera and reconstructing the apples in 3D. Our
method is the ﬁrst among such methods where fruit diameter
information is obtained from images from a monocular
camera. It should be noted that reconstruction from a single
camera is bound to have global scale ambiguity (we can not
know the scale without knowing the distance to the scene
and vice versa). Our method ﬁxes the reconstruction scale
across the images, and normalizes the sizes with respect to
a reference apple. This apple can be identiﬁed and measured
by the user in order to obtain diameter information in a given
unit (e.g. centimeters). We present results which validate our
methods with footage obtained from a tablet and monocular
cameras in multiple ﬁeld trials.
We start with an overview of related work.
II. RELATED WORK
There has been signiﬁcant recent activity for automating
yield estimation [4]–[6]. Wang et al. [7] presented a system
for apple yield estimation. Their system uses a side facing,
CONFIDENTIAL. Limited circulation. For review only.
Preprint submitted to 12th Conference on Automation Science and Engineering.
Received March 28, 2016.

wide-baseline vertical stereo rig mounted on an autonomous
ground vehicle. It operates in controlled artiﬁcial illumination
settings at night. In addition to count information, the stereo
system extracts fruit sizes. Hung et al. [8] presented a feature
based learning approach for identiﬁcation of red and green
apples and extraction of fruit count. Das et al. [9] developed a
sensor suite for extracting plant morphology, canopy volume,
leaf area index and fruit count that consists of a laser range
scanner, multi-spectral cameras, a thermal imaging camera
and navigational sensors. In contrast, our goal is to extract
count and diameter from a single camera.
Jimenez et al. [10] present a survey of existing computer
vision methods for locating fruit on trees. In particular, Mao
et al. [11] developed methods for detecting Fuji apples based
on color. However, these methods rely on images taken from
a high-resolution camera mounted on a tripod and they only
estimate yield in a single image. It is difﬁcult to use such
methods to obtain yield across the farm because multiple
images can have overlapping fruit. In [12], a system for esti-
mating the number of apples from color images in orchards
under natural illumination was developed. This technique is
also applicable on single images. The authors avoid specular
lighting conditions by capturing images close to sunset. Our
work does not rely on any particular assumption about the
time of day or the position of the sun.
We have built a proof of concept system where a UAV
equipped with a stereo pair captures images of apple trees,
registers them in image space, and estimates the count and
diameter of the apples [13]. In this paper, we remove the
need for stereo. We ﬁrst present an improved method for
aligning apples across the images. Next, we present a new
SfM pipeline to reconstruct the apples. This is then used
to estimate diameters measured with respect to a reference
apple.
III. PROBLEM FORMULATION AND ASSUMPTIONS
In developing our algorithms, we made a few assumptions
about the setup. First, we assume that the camera is intrin-
sically calibrated. While auto-calibration techniques can be
incorporated into the pipeline, we have not investigated this
extension yet. It should also be noted that newer platforms
such as Google Tango Tablet are making calibration param-
eters available to developers. As a result of the calibration
assumption, we require the camera to have ﬁxed focus. A
camera whose focus changes dynamically (i.e auto-focus)
is not compatible with our system. Most of the cameras in
smart phones and tablets have ﬁxed focal length and can be
used for data collection (the auto-focus functionality in these
cameras does not change the true focal length and camera
center). Cameras with variable focal length can be used after
ﬁxing the zoom and focus. We have used the calibration
toolbox and the standard chessboard pattern to calibrate the
cameras [14].
We do not make any assumptions regarding environmental
(e.g. illumination) conditions. The goal of the work presented
in this paper can be summarized as: Given a sequence of
images from a calibrated monocular camera, register all
apples, estimate their counts and ﬁnd their diameters up to a
user deﬁned scale. As a by product, the observed apples are
reconstructed up to a scale. For exact estimation of diameters,
users can choose to scale the scene up or down according to
metric measurements.
IV. OVERVIEW OF THE APPROACH
As mentioned earlier, we have previously developed a
system for counting and diameter estimation using a stereo
camera system. We utilize the preprocessing and post-
processing components of this system which can be found
in our technical report [13].
The primary components of our approach are:
1) Preprocessing involving the segmentation of input
images to identify image contours containing apple
clusters.
2) Apple clusters in consecutive segmented images are
matched to compute dense features. This step is per-
formed by computing an afﬁne transformation to align
two matching contours.
3) The dense features along with segmented images are
then input to our SfM pipeline which registers the
images and produces a reconstruction (up to a scale)
4) (Optional) The reconstruction is scaled by the user.
5) Post-processing: after reconstruction, the apples are
counted and their diameters estimated.
Our contributions in this paper are the intermediate steps
2 and 3 which involve reconstruction using images from a
single camera. We also investigate step 4 in section VIII.
V. COMPUTATION OF DENSE FEATURE MATCHES
In an orchard setting, usually only the frontal views of
the apple clusters are available. Even from a few meters, the
depth change in the visible portion of an apple is negligible
and the apple geometry can be approximated by a circle
lying on a plane. This allows us to make the assumption
that matching apples across individual apple clusters in
consecutive images are related by an afﬁne transformation. In
our earlier work [13], we have used exhaustive search to ﬁnd
the best afﬁne transformation. In order to speed up process,
we switched to an nonlinear optimization method based
on Gauss-Newton gradient descent as described in [15].
In this section, we present the equations for apple contour
alignment.
Given two apple contours, the afﬁne transformation relat-
ing them is parameterized in the following way,
A(p) =
1 + p1
p3
p5
p2
1 + p4
p6

We seek the transformation A which minimizes
X
¯x
[I2(¯x) −I1(A(¯x))]2
(1)
where, I1 and I2 are the corresponding apple clusters and ¯x is
the homogeneous vector representation of image coordinates
[u, v, 1]T . Here, I2 can be thought of as a template and
I1 as an image that is to be aligned to the template after
CONFIDENTIAL. Limited circulation. For review only.
Preprint submitted to 12th Conference on Automation Science and Engineering.
Received March 28, 2016.

going through the afﬁne transformation A. Note that we seek
to compute a separate afﬁne transformation for each apple
cluster. The inverse compositional algorithm [15] seeks to
minimize,
argmin∆p
X
x
[I2(A(∆p)¯x) −I1(A(p)¯x)]2
(2)
here ∆p is the incremental transformation to be applied
to the existing afﬁne warp A(p). This warp is applied in the
following way:
A(p) ←A(p) ∗A(∆p)−1
As evident from the name, the incremental warp has to be
inversed before composing with current warp. Performing a
ﬁrst order Taylor expansion of equation (2) we get,
X
¯x

I2(A(0)¯x) + ∆I2
δA
δp −I1(A(p)¯x)
2
If we assume that the initial warp A(0) is identity, the
incremental warp ∆p can be computed as a least square
solution to the above equation,
∆p = H−1 X
¯x

∆I2
δA
δp
T
[I1(A(p)¯x) −I2(¯x)]
where the Hessian is
H =
X
¯x

∆T δA
δp
T 
∆T δA
δp

The details of the algorithm can be found in the inverse
compositional algorithm section in
[15]. In step (2) of
the inverse compositional algorithm [15] the error image is
obtained as plain subtraction (i.e I1(A(p)∗¯x)−I2(¯x)). This
step is changed in our implementation to penalize the warps
that map the image points outside the template. We impose
a heavy cost whenever, the warped points are outside the
template.
Following the computation of dense matches, we can
formulate an afﬁne hierarchy between the matching con-
tours across images and identify them uniquely. Figure 2(b)
shows such an example. Afﬁne transformation A1
1,2 maps
contour C1 in image I1 to I2 and afﬁne transformation
A1
2,3 maps contour C1 from image I2 to I3. Therefore the
afﬁne transformation relating contour C1 from frame I1
to frame I3 is A1
1,2 ∗A1
2,3. We emphasize the novelty of
our approach that different contours are related by different
afﬁne transformations (For contour C2 we have a different
afﬁne hierarchy). The obtained dense matches and segmented
images are next fed into our novel SfM pipeline, which is
discussed in the next section.
VI. THE STRUCTURE FROM MOTION PIPELINE
Most of the standard feature based sequential SfM
pipelines operate by selecting a pair of good initial frames
for reconstruction (Figure 3(a)) [16]. After reconstructing
the initial structure, each additional frame is matched to the
frames already used in reconstruction. The reprojection error
between reconstructed world points and matching points in
the new frame is minimized to recover the camera pose
and introduce new points to the structure
[17]. Another
standard approach, is to do two/three view reconstruction
and then merging them using the constraints enforced by
the common view [18]. Both these standard approaches
work well for sparse reconstructions in the presence of large
number of non-planar features. In contrast we have dense
features from apples but many of them are planar. These
standard approaches fail to align the reconstructed apples in
different frames even with the aid of costly non-linear bundle
adjustment (Fig. 4).
To resolve this problem, we propose a novel piecewise
incremental structure from motion pipeline (Figure 3(b)).
Similar to most incremental methods, our pipeline operates
by pairwise reconstruction and merging the reconstructed
point-clouds. As the cameras are calibrated, reconstructed
points in different reference frames differ from each other by
a similarity transformation. Our merging procedure utilizes
the obtained afﬁne relationship in the previous step to merge
the reconstructions. Instead of solving for the transformation
between two reference frames, we solve for the transfor-
mation between the matching apple clusters and align them
individually.
Our novel pipeline for dense structure from motion has
three steps:
1) Keyframe selection and pairwise reconstruction
2) Alignment of reconstructed point-clouds using cluster-
wise transformation
3) Computation of overall camera motion and optional
bundle adjustment
We describe each of these steps in details in the following:
A. Keyframe Selection and Pairwise Reconstruction
To do precise reconstruction from an image sequence
we need to ensure that frames within a pair satisfy the
epipolar constraints, and have sufﬁcient parallax between
each other. Given the image sequence I1, I2, ..., In we choose
an arbitrary frame Im where m ∈{1, 2, ...n}, as the ﬁrst
frame. Then we ﬁnd another frame Im+i which is consistent
with frame m in terms of epipolar constraints. We perform
pairwise reconstruction in the following way:
1) As the correspondence problem has already been
solved in a previous step, we have dense feature
matches between the images. To ensure enough paral-
lax we compute both essential matrix E [19] and ho-
mography between the images and then check whether
they satisfy the Geometric Robust Information Cri-
terion (GRIC) deﬁned by Torr [20]. This criterion
CONFIDENTIAL. Limited circulation. For review only.
Preprint submitted to 12th Conference on Automation Science and Engineering.
Received March 28, 2016.

(a) Matching between contours.
(b) Afﬁne Map
(c) Dense matching between images
Fig. 2: Computation of dense matching through afﬁne transformation. For clarity only 10% of the matches are shown.
(a) A standard PnP based SfM pipeline
(b) Our piecewise incremental SfM pipeline
Fig. 3: Comparison of a common SfM pipeline and our pipeline. On Fig(a) we show a common structure from motion
pipeline. It operates by constructing an initial structure. Then it incrementally augments the structure by adding new points
from subsequent frames by solving the Perspective n Point (PnP) 2D to 3D correspondence problem. In the ﬁgure, matching
points p,q and their reconstruction X is shown. The next camera pose is determined by minimizing the reprojection of the
world point X to matching image point r. On Fig(b) we show Our SFM pipeline. Instead of aligning entire frames, we
align the apple clusters individually. The average scale factor of these individual alignments are used to align non-matching
clusters.
basically makes sure that the essential matrix is mod-
elling the relationship between the frames better than
homography. If the frames do not satisfy GRIC, we
skip the current frame and move to the next one.
2) We decompose E to ﬁnd the R and t between the
cameras as described in section 9.6.2 of [21].
CONFIDENTIAL. Limited circulation. For review only.
Preprint submitted to 12th Conference on Automation Science and Engineering.
Received March 28, 2016.

(a) Reference view to which we
align other views
(b) An image obtained by re-
projecting 3d points produced by
baseline incremental SfM
(c) An image obtained by re-
projecting 3d points produced by
baseline PnP based SfM
(d) Same image obtained from our
pipeline
Fig. 4: Failure of baseline incremental SfM and PnP based methods to align dense apple clusters. Fig(a) shows the reference
image to which we project all the 3D points from our reconstruction. Fig(b) shows a reprojected image frame from the
baseline incremental SfM reconstruction and Fig(c) shows a reprojected image frame from a PnP based reconstruction. Both
images contain same apples multiple times (some of them are shown in rectangular boxes) which shows the inability of
these methods to register the clusters successfully. In Fig(d) we show the same image in Fig. 4 obtained from our pipeline.
It solves the problem of multiple registration of the same apples observed while applying the baseline methods.
3) While decomposing E, if we ﬁnd that, determinant(E)
is not close to zero (we use determinant(E)< 1e−10),
or the two singular values (we use singular value ratio
<= .9) of E are not identical we reject the essential
matrix and go to step 6.
4) Decomposition of E yields four combinations of R
and t. We triangulate using each of these combinations
and check for the cheriality condition (we checked
whether 99% of the reconstructed points are in front of
the camera). If we ﬁnd a valid triangulation with low
average reprojection error (the threshold we use is 1.00
pixels), we reconstruct using the obtained projection
matrices.
5) We impose one additional constraint on the triangula-
tion angle to ensure the robustness of the reconstructed
structure. Triangulated points for which the triangula-
tion angle is within ﬁve to sixty degrees are kept and
the rest are discarded. This is done to protect against
parallel and vertical triangulation rays that lead to poor
structure [22].
6) If we do not ﬁnd a valid triangulation or we reject the
essential matrix because of not satisfying the criteria
in step 4, we discard the current frame and move to
the next one.
Following these steps we reconstruct using the matches
from the image pair, <
Im, Im+i
>. We assume our
world/reference frame is the ﬁrst camera frame. Next, we
look for a subsequent frame which is consistent with frame
Im+i using the same procedure described above and recon-
struct from the found pair. If none of the subsequent image
frames are consistent with frame Im+i, we discard one of the
initial frames (e.g discard Im+i and ﬁnd a new suitable frame
for pairwise reconstruction with frame Im and continue in
this way). As mentioned previously, the ﬁrst camera frame
used for reconstructing the initial pair acts as the frame of
reference. Proceeding this way, we have multiple pairwise
reconstructions, none of which are aligned. In the following
section, we describe how to align these reconstructed point-
clouds.
B. Alignment of reconstructed point-clouds using cluster-
wise transformation
The alignment proceeds by calculating the transformation
T Cm
i,j
between matching reconstructed apple cluster Cm
between reference frame i and j. Let
iCm denote the
reconstructed cluster in reference frame i and jCm denote
the reconstructed cluster in reference frame j. Here, the
reference frames also denote corresponding camera reference
frames. The reconstruction in reference frame i is obtained
from image pairs < Ii, Ij > and reconstruction in reference
frame j is obtained from pair < Ij, Ik >. So,
iCm =
iRj
jCm + λi
iTjorg
(3)
CONFIDENTIAL. Limited circulation. For review only.
Preprint submitted to 12th Conference on Automation Science and Engineering.
Received March 28, 2016.

Fig. 5: Dense reconstruction from our pipeline. We show
a sample reconstruction of three trees from our novel SfM
pipeline. The circles are shown for illustration purposes.
where iRj,i Tjorg is the rotation and translation mapping
reference frame j to i, λi is the lost scale factor while
extraction of translation from essential matrix. If i is our
base reference frame (i.e all other reconstructions will be
mapped to this frame), without loss of generality we can set
λi = 1. All other frames will be reconstructed up to the scale
of the initial reconstruction in base frame i. Moving onto the
next reconstruction of cluster Cm in reference frame j,
jCm =
jRk
kCm + λj
jTkorg
(4)
Replacing the value of jCm in equation (3) from equa-
tion (4) we obtain:
iCm =
iRj(jRk
kCm + λj
jTkorg) + λi
iTjorg
(5)
Using the correspondences from the cluster Cm in equa-
tion (5) we can solve for the scale factor λj. Then the points
in reconstruction of jCm in reference frame j which do not
correspond to any points in iCm can be aligned to base
frame i using the right side of equation (5). An illustration of
this procedure can be found in Figure 3(b). As equation (5)
uses only correspondences within a cluster Cm and therefore
the obtained scale is local with respect to the reconstructed
points in iCm. If we average all of these local scales, we
will obtain a scale consistent across the entire point-cloud.
This scale is used to align point-clouds of clusters that do
not have corresponding matching clusters in the previous
reconstruction.
C. Computation of overall camera motion and optional
bundle adjustment
The retained overall scale in the previous step deﬁnes the
additional camera pose up to a consistent scale. The pose
for camera k is, jTk =
h
jRk|λj
GTkorg
i
, where λG denote
the overall scale. In conventional incremental SfM, this step
is followed by a bundle adjustment [23]. The robustness of
the piecewise alignment enables us to skip this step. Figure 8
shows, even without bundle adjustment the reprojection error
is much lower than the baseline incremental and PnP based
methods. Nevertheless, we perform bundle adjustment as
the ﬁnal step of the reconstruction procedure. It helps to
remove small drifts in the camera motion resulting in robust
estimation of both structure and motion (Fig. 7).
VII. COUNTING AND DIAMETER ESTIMATION
Once we obtain the full structure from all the frames, we
are in a good position to estimate the count and diameter of
the apples.
For counting the number of apples, the counting method
in [13] is used. The method takes registered segmented apple
images as input. As we have already registered the apples in
3D space, it is trivial to generate the 2D registered images.
We divide our total structure into arbitrary portions and
project the 3D point-clouds of apple clusters to a camera
frame where they are visible.
As apple clusters are tricky to separate into individual
apples, we select only single apples for diameter estimation.
This is ensured by the counting method. To compute the
diameters, we use the diameter estimation method in [13].
This method essentially ﬁnds the pixel diameter and average
depth of the pixels within the apple. Then it projects the
pixel diameter to average depth to ﬁnd the metric diameter.
As our reconstruction is only up to a scale, the obtained
diameter is also deﬁned upto a scale. We ﬁx the diameter of
a random apple in metric unit to obtain the required scale
factor. This scale factor is used to convert our obtained up to
scale diameters to metric units. The metric diameter of the
random apple is a user input in our estimation system. In
the section, VIII-B we evaluate our counting and diameter
estimation procedures rigorously.
VIII. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
As outlined previously our main contribution in this paper,
is a novel sequential structure from motion pipeline for
reconstruction in orchard settings. Utilizing, this pipeline we
obtain a dense reconstruction of orchard rows and estimate
fruit counts and diameters. We collected many different data
sets using stereo (for ground truth of diameter data) and
monocular cameras. In this paper we have used two datasets:
• Dataset1 primarily contains red Apples. Total number
of images are 965. Sample images from the dataset are
shown in Fig. 6. These images covers a full row of an
orchard.
• Dataset2 contains a mixture of red and green apples.
Total number of images are 464. Sample images from
the dataset are shown in Fig. 6. This dataset covers one
block containing six trees.
We tested both our SfM pipeline and yield estimation
capabilities using these two data sets.
A. Evaluation of the novel SfM pipeline
Our SfM pipeline uses a piecewise incremental process
to recover camera motion and scene structure. The ﬁgures
CONFIDENTIAL. Limited circulation. For review only.
Preprint submitted to 12th Conference on Automation Science and Engineering.
Received March 28, 2016.

Fig. 6: Sample images from used datasets. The ﬁgure on left shows a sample image from Dataset1 primarily containing red
apples. The ﬁgure on right shows a sample image from Dataset2 containing a mixture of red and green apples.
(Fig. 7, 8) are produced from over 200 frames in Dataset2.
The ﬁgures show only the keyframes selected by our SfM
pipeline. Even without the aid of bundle adjustment the
reprojection error (Fig. 8) is very low. However, the camera
motion without bundle adjustments have small drifts as
shown in Fig. 7. The bundle adjustment procedure eliminates
these small drifts and corrects the camera motion and scene
structure.
Fig. 7: The computed camera motion with and without
bundle adjustment. Bundle adjustment removes the drifts in
camera motion.
We compare our method with the two popular base-
line methods: incremental SfM and PnP based SfM. Both
methods are implemented with full bundle adjustment after
addition of each new frame. The results show that even
without bundle adjustment our piecewise incremental method
has far lower reprojection error than the baseline methods
(Fig. 8).
B. Field results for apple count and diameter estimation
As discussed earlier, the full description of the counting
and diameter estimation algorithm is beyond the scope of this
paper. For details of these methods please see [13]. Field
Fig. 8: Reprojection error comparison. Our piecewise incre-
mental method performs better than both baseline methods
even without bundle adjustment. Bundle adjustment though
reduces the reprojection error further and helps to correct the
small drifts and smooth camera motion as shown in Fig. 7.
trials have shown that the counting accuracy for Dataset1
(containing red apples only) and Dataset2 (containing both
red and green apples) is 85.87% and 81.3492%.
For evaluating diameter estimation using monocular cam-
eras, we use stereo data as ground truth. The diameters from
our SfM reconstruction is only up to a scale. To ﬁx the
scale, we randomly choose an apple and ﬁnd the metric
value of its diameter. The ratio of the obtained diameter
from our pipeline and this metric value provides us with
the scale factor needed to scale our diameter data. Fig.
9
shows the histogram of obtained diameters from stereo and
single camera. We compared the diameters of hundred single
apples from the Datasets. The results show that the mean
difference between monocular and stereo diameter is +.90
centimeters(cm) and the standard deviation is ±2.9 cm. To
ﬁnd the dissimilarity between the two distributions more
rigorously, we used earth mover’s distance [24]. The found
dissimilarity between the two distribution is .65. In other
words, to morph one distribution into another, the average
distance per weight in the horizontal axis is less than one.
Using only one apple to scale up the scene can be
susceptible to noise. To get accurate estimates we may need
to choose multiple apples, ﬁnd their actual diameter and ﬁnd
CONFIDENTIAL. Limited circulation. For review only.
Preprint submitted to 12th Conference on Automation Science and Engineering.
Received March 28, 2016.

Fig. 9: Comparison of diameter estimation from Monocular
Camera (top-left) with Stereo (top-right). Middle row: The
scale can be estimated by measuring apples as ground
truth. The error as a function number of apples used to
estimate the scale. With four or more measurements, the
error drops below one centimeter. Bottom row: The scaled
diameter estimation from our method (left) and a side by
side comparison of obtained histograms (right).
the average scale factor. Figure 9 shows how the error in
the monocular estimate decreases with increasing number of
apples used for estimating scale. The results indicate that if
we use more than four ground truth apples, the error drops
below one cm.
IX. CONCLUSION
This paper presented ﬁrst results for a system which can
produce yield estimates from monocular images. The system
provides count information and a distribution of the relative
size. If the absolute size is required, the only input required
from the farmer would be the true size of a single measured
apple. From a technical viewpoint, our main contribution
is a method to reconstruct the structure of the fruit by
generating dense matches from contour correspondences.
The techniques described in this paper require cameras to be
calibrated. They are also executed ofﬂine after data collec-
tion. In future, we would like to extend these techniques for
non-calibrated cameras. We are also interested in real time
implementations (using GPU available on smartphones) so
that the application runs directly on the platform while data
is being collected.
X. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
The authors thank Professors Emily Hoover, Cindy Tong
and James Luby from Department of Horticultural Science,
University of Minnesota, for their expertise and help with
the experiments.
REFERENCES
[1] T. S. Huang and A. N. Netravali, “Motion and structure from feature
correspondences: A review,” Proceedings of the IEEE, vol. 82, no. 2,
pp. 252–268, 1994.
[2] H. Bay, T. Tuytelaars, and L. Van Gool, “Surf: Speeded up robust
features,” in Computer vision–ECCV 2006.
Springer, 2006, pp. 404–
417.
[3] D. G. Lowe, “Object recognition from local scale-invariant features,”
in Computer vision, 1999. The proceedings of the seventh IEEE
international conference on, vol. 2.
Ieee, 1999, pp. 1150–1157.
[4] D. Ball, P. Ross, A. English, T. Patten, B. Upcroft, R. Fitch,
S. Sukkarieh, G. Wyeth, and P. Corke, “Robotics for sustainable broad-
acre agriculture,” Proceedings of Field and Service Robotics (FSR
2013), pp. 1–14, 2013.
[5] M. Bergerman, S. Singh, and B. Hamner, “Results with autonomous
vehicles operating in specialty crops,” in IEEE International Confer-
ence on Robotics and Automation (ICRA).
IEEE, 2012, pp. 1829–
1835.
[6] M. Bergerman, E. Van Henten, J. Billingsley, J. Reid, and D. Ming-
cong, “Ieee robotics and automation society technical committee on
agricultural robotics and automation,” IEEE Robotics and Automation
Magazine, vol. 20, no. 2, pp. 20–23, 2013.
[7] Q. Wang, S. Nuske, M. Bergerman, and S. Singh, “Automated
crop yield estimation for apple orchards,” in Experimental Robotics,
ser. Springer Tracts in Advanced Robotics, J. P. Desai, G. Dudek,
O. Khatib, and V. Kumar, Eds.
Springer International Publishing,
2013, vol. 88, pp. 745–758.
[8] C. Hung, J. Underwood, J. Nieto, and S. Sukkarieh, “A feature learning
based approach for automated fruit yield estimation,” in Field and
Service Robotics.
Springer, 2015, pp. 485–498.
[9] J. Das, G. Cross, C. Qu, A. Makineni, P. Tokekar, Y. Mulgaonkar, and
V. Kumar, “Devices, systems, and methods for automated monitoring
enabling precision agriculture,” in Proceedings of IEEE Conference
on Automation Science and Engineering, 2015.
[10] A. Jimenez, R. Ceres, and J. Pons, “A survey of computer vision
methods for locating fruit on trees,” Transactions of the ASAE-
American Society of Agricultural Engineers, vol. 43, no. 6, pp. 1911–
1920, 2000.
[11] W. Mao, B. Jia, X. Zhang, and X. Hub, “Detection and position method
of apple tree image,” in Computer and Computing Technologies in
Agriculture II, Volume 2, ser. IFIP Advances in Information and
Communication Technology, D. Li and C. Zhao, Eds.
Springer US,
2009, vol. 294, pp. 1039–1048.
[12] R. Linker, O. Cohen, and A. Naor, “Determination of the number of
green apples in rgb images recorded in orchards,” Comput. Electron.
Agric., vol. 81, pp. 45–57, Feb. 2012.
[13] P. Roy, N. Stefas, C. Peng, H. Bayram, P. Tokekar, and V. Isler,
“Robotic surveying of apple orchards,” University of Minnesota,
Department of Computer Science, Tech. Rep., 07 2015.
[14] Z. Zhang, “A ﬂexible new technique for camera calibration,” Pattern
Analysis and Machine Intelligence, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 22,
no. 11, pp. 1330–1334, 2000.
[15] S. Baker and I. Matthews, “Lucas-kanade 20 years on: A unifying
framework,” International journal of computer vision, vol. 56, no. 3,
pp. 221–255, 2004.
[16] D. Scaramuzza and F. Fraundorfer, “Visual odometry [tutorial],”
Robotics & Automation Magazine, IEEE, vol. 18, no. 4, pp. 80–92,
2011.
[17] L. Quan and Z. Lan, “Linear n-point camera pose determination,”
Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, IEEE Transactions on,
vol. 21, no. 8, pp. 774–780, 1999.
[18] S. N. Sinha, D. E. Steedly, and R. S. Szeliski, “Multi-stage linear
structure from motion,” Sept. 16 2014, uS Patent 8,837,811.
[19] D. Nist´er, “An efﬁcient solution to the ﬁve-point relative pose prob-
lem,” Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, IEEE Transactions
on, vol. 26, no. 6, pp. 756–770, 2004.
[20] P. H. Torr, “An assessment of information criteria for motion model
selection,” in Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 1997. Pro-
ceedings., 1997 IEEE Computer Society Conference on.
IEEE, 1997,
pp. 47–52.
[21] R. Hartley and A. Zisserman, Multiple view geometry in computer
vision.
Cambridge university press, 2003.
[22] P. Parsonage, A. Hilton, and J. Starck, “Efﬁcient dense reconstruction
from video,” in Visual Media Production (CVMP), 2011 Conference
for.
IEEE, 2011, pp. 30–38.
[23] S. Agarwal, N. Snavely, S. M. Seitz, and R. Szeliski, “Bundle
adjustment in the large,” in Computer Vision–ECCV 2010.
Springer,
2010, pp. 29–42.
[24] Y. Rubner, C. Tomasi, and L. J. Guibas, “The earth mover’s distance
as a metric for image retrieval,” International journal of computer
vision, vol. 40, no. 2, pp. 99–121, 2000.
CONFIDENTIAL. Limited circulation. For review only.
Preprint submitted to 12th Conference on Automation Science and Engineering.
Received March 28, 2016.
