SLAM++: Simultaneous Localisation and Mapping at the Level of Objects
Renato F. Salas-Moreno1
Richard A. Newcombe2
Hauke Strasdat1
Paul H. J. Kelly1
Andrew J. Davison1
1Imperial College London
2University of Washington
Abstract
We present the major advantages of a new ‘object ori-
ented’ 3D SLAM paradigm, which takes full advantage
in the loop of prior knowledge that many scenes consist
of repeated, domain-speciﬁc objects and structures. As a
hand-held depth camera browses a cluttered scene, real-
time 3D object recognition and tracking provides 6DoF
camera-object constraints which feed into an explicit graph
of objects, continually reﬁned by efﬁcient pose-graph opti-
misation. This offers the descriptive and predictive power
of SLAM systems which perform dense surface reconstruc-
tion, but with a huge representation compression. The ob-
ject graph enables predictions for accurate ICP-based cam-
era to model tracking at each live frame, and efﬁcient ac-
tive search for new objects in currently undescribed image
regions. We demonstrate real-time incremental SLAM in
large, cluttered environments, including loop closure, relo-
calisation and the detection of moved objects, and of course
the generation of an object level scene description with the
potential to enable interaction.
1. Introduction
Most current real-time SLAM systems operate at the
level of low-level primitives (points, lines, patches or non-
parametric surface representations such as depth maps),
which must be robustly matched, geometrically transformed
and optimised over in order that maps represent the intrica-
cies of the real world. Modern processing hardware permits
ever-improving levels of detail and scale, and much inter-
est is now turning to semantic labelling of this geometry
in terms of the objects and regions that are known to exist
in the scene. However, some thought about this process re-
veals a huge amount of wasted computational effort; and the
potential for a much better way of taking account of domain
knowledge in the loop of SLAM operation itself.
We propose a paradigm for real-time localisation and
mapping which harnesses 3D object recognition to jump
over low level geometry processing and produce incremen-
Figure 1. (top) In SLAM++, a cluttered 3D scene is efﬁciently
tracked and mapped in real-time directly at the object level. (left)
A live view at the current camera pose and the synthetic rendered
objects. (right) We contrast a raw depth camera normal map with
the corresponding high quality prediction from our object graph,
used both for camera tracking and for masking object search.
tally built maps directly at the ‘object oriented’ level. As
a hand-held depth camera browses a cluttered scene, prior
knowledge of the objects likely to be repetitively present
enables real-time 3D recognition and the creation of a sim-
ple pose graph map of relative object locations. This graph
is continuously optimised as new measurements arrive, and
enables always up-to-date, dense and precise prediction of
the next camera measurement. These predictions are used
for robust camera tracking and the generation of active
search regions for further object detection.
Our approach is enabled by efﬁcient GPGPU parallel im-
1

plementation of recent advances in real-time 3D object de-
tection and 6DoF (Degree of Freedom) ICP-based pose re-
ﬁnement. We show that alongside the obvious beneﬁt of
an object-level scene description, this paradigm enables a
vast compression of map storage compared to a dense re-
construction system with similar predictive power; and that
it easily enables large scale loop closure, relocalisation and
great potential for the use of domain-speciﬁc priors.
2. Real-Time SLAM with Hand-Held Sensors
In SLAM (Simultaneous Localisation and Mapping),
building an internally consistent map in real-time from a
moving sensor enables drift-free localisation during arbi-
trarily long periods of motion. We have still not seen truly
‘pick up and play’ SLAM systems which can be embed-
ded in low-cost devices and used without concern or un-
derstanding by non-expert users, but there has been much
recent progress. Until recently, the best systems used ei-
ther monocular or stereo passive cameras. Sparse feature
ﬁltering methods like [5] were improved on by ‘keyframe
SLAM’ systems like PTAM [8] which used bundle adjust-
ment in parallel with tracking to enable high feature counts
and more accurate tracking.
Most recently, a breakthrough has been provided by
‘dense SLAM’ systems, which take advantage of GPGPU
processing hardware to reconstruct and track full surface
models, represented non-parametrically as meshes or im-
plicit surfaces. While this approach is possible with an RGB
camera [12], commodity depth cameras have now come to
the fore in high performance, robust indoor 3D mapping,
in particular via the KinectFusion algorithm [11]. New de-
velopments such as [18] have tackled scaling the method
via a sliding volume, sub-blocking or octrees; but a a truly
scalable, multi-resolution, loop closure capable dense non-
parametric surface representation remains elusive, and will
always be wasteful in environments with symmetry.
From sparse feature-based SLAM, where the world is
modelled as an unconnected point cloud, to dense SLAM
which assumes that scenes contain continuous surfaces, we
have seen an increase in the prior scene knowledge brought
to bear. In SLAM++ we step up to the even stronger as-
sumption that the world has intrinsic symmetry in the form
of repetitive objects. While we currently pre-deﬁne the ob-
jects expected in a scene, we intend that the paradigm per-
mits the objects in a scene to be identiﬁed and segmented
automatically as salient, repeated elements.
Object SLAM has many characteristics of a return
to feature-based SLAM methods.
Unlike dense non-
parametric approaches, the relatively few discrete entities
in the map makes it highly feasible to jointly optimise over
all object positions to make globally consistent maps. The
fact that the map entities are now objects rather than point
features, however, puts us in a stronger position than ever
before; tracking one object in 6DoF is enough to localise
a camera, and reliable relocalisation of a lost camera or
loop closure detection can be performed on the basis of
just a small number of object measurements due to their
high saliency.
Further, and crucially, instant recognition
of objects provides great efﬁciency and robustness beneﬁts
via the active approaches it permits to tracking and object
detection, guided entirely by the dense predictions we can
make of the positions of known objects.
SLAM++ relates strongly to the growing interest in se-
mantically labelling scene reconstructions and maps, in
both the computer vision and robotics communities, though
we stress the big difference between post-hoc labelling
of geometry and the closed loop, real-time algorithm we
present. Some of the most sophisticated recent work was
by Kim et al. [7]. A depth camera is ﬁrst used to scan a
scene, similar in scale and object content to the results we
demonstrate later, and all data is fused into a single large
point cloud. Off-line, learned object models, with a degree
of variation to cope with a range of real object types, are
then matched into the joint scan, optimising both similarity
and object conﬁguration constraints. The results are impres-
sive, though the emphasis is on labelling rather than aiding
mapping and we can see problems with missing data which
cannot be ﬁxed with non-interactive capture. Other good
work on labelling using RDB-D data was by Silberman [16]
as well as Ren et al. [14] who used kernel descriptors for
appearance and shape to label single depth camera images
with object and region identity.
Several published approaches use object detection, like
we do, with the aim of not just labelling but actually im-
proving reconstruction and tracking; but none of these have
taken the idea nearly as far as we have with the combina-
tion of real-time processing, full 3D operation, dense pre-
diction and a modern graph optimisation back-end. To give
a ﬂavour of this work, Castle et al. [4] incorporated pla-
nar object detection into sparse feature-based monocular
SLAM [5]. These objects, once recognized via SIFT de-
scriptors, improved the quality of SLAM due to their known
size and shape, though the objects were simple highly tex-
tured posters and the scene scale small. Also in an EKF
SLAM paradigm, Ramos et al. [13] demonstrated a 2D
laser/camera system which used object recognition to gen-
erate discrete entities to map (tree trunks) rather than using
raw measurements. Finally, the same idea that object recog-
nition aids reconstruction has been used in off-line structure
from motion. Bao et al. [3] represented a scene as a set of
points, objects and regions in two-view SfM, solving ex-
pensively and jointly in a graph optimisation for a labelling
and reconstruction solution taking account of interactions
between all scene entities.

Figure 2. Outline of the SLAM++ pipeline. Given a live depth map Dl, we ﬁrst compute a surface measurement in the form of a vertex and
normal map Nl providing input to the sequentially computed camera tracking and object detection pipelines. (1) We track the live camera
pose Twl with an iterative closest point approach using the dense multi-object scene prediction captured in the current SLAM graph G. (2)
Next we attempt to detect objects, previously stored in a database, that are present in the live frame, generating detection candidates with an
estimated pose in the scene. Candidates are ﬁrst reﬁned or rejected using a second ICP estimation initialised with the detected pose. (3) We
add successfully detected objects g into the SLAM graph in the form of a object-pose vertex connected to the live estimated camera-pose
vertex via a measurement edge. (4) Rendering objects from the SLAM graph produce a predicted depth Dr and normal map Nr into the
live estimated frame, enabling us to actively search only those pixels not described by current objects in the graph. We run an individual
ICP between each object and the live image resulting in the addition of a new camera-object constraint into the SLAM graph.
3. Method
SLAM++ is overviewed in Figure 2, and detailed below.
3.1. Creating an Object Database
Before live operation in a certain scene, we rapidly make
high quality 3D models of repeatedly occurring objects via
interactive scanning using KinectFusion [11] in a controlled
setting where the object can easily be circled without occlu-
sion. A mesh for the object is extracted from the truncated
signed distance volume obtained from KinectFusion using
marching cubes [10]. A small amount of manual editing
in a mesh tool is performed to separate the object from the
ground plane, and mark it up with a coordinate frame such
that domain-speciﬁc object constraints can be applied. The
reconstructed objects are then stored in a simple database.
3.2. SLAM Map Representation
Our representation of the world is a graph, where each
node stores either the estimated SE(3) pose (rotation and
translation relative to a ﬁxed world frame) Twoj of object
j, or Twi of the historical pose of the camera at timestep
i (see Figure 5).
Each object node is annotated with a
type from the object database. Each SE(3) measurement
of the pose of an object Zi,oj from the camera is stored in
the graph as a factor (constraint) which links one camera
pose and one object pose. Additional factors can option-
ally be added to the graph; between camera poses to rep-
resent camera-camera motion estimates (e.g. from ICP), or
domain-speciﬁc structural priors, e.g. that certain types of
objects must be grounded on the same plane. Details on
graph optimisation are given in Section 3.5.
3.3. Real-Time Object Recognition
We follow the approach of Drost et al. [6] for recognis-
ing the 6DoF pose of 3D objects, represented by meshes, in
a depth image. We give details of our parallel implemen-
tation, which achieves the real-time detection of multiple
instances of multiple objects we need by fully exploiting
the ﬁne-grained parallelism of GPUs.
As in the Generalised Hough Transform [2], in Drost et
al.’s method an object is detected and simultaneously lo-
calised via the accumulation of votes in a parameter space.
The basis of voting is the correspondence between Point-
Pair Features (PPFs); four-dimensional descriptors of the
relative position and normals of pairs of oriented points on
the surface of an object.
Points, with normal estimates,
are randomly sampled on a bilateral-ﬁltered image from the
depth camera. These samples are paired up in all possible
combinations to generate PPFs which vote for 6DoF model
conﬁgurations containing a similar PPF.
A global description for each object mesh is quickly gen-
erated on the GPU by discretising PPFs with similar values
and storing them in search data structures built using par-
allel primitive operations such as reduction, scan and sort
(see Algorithm 1), provided by modern GPU template li-
braries such as Bolt [1]. Similar structures are also built
from each live frame. This process typically takes <5ms
for 160K PPFs and could also be used in the future to de-
scribe new object classes on the ﬂy as they are automatically
segmented.
Matching similar features of the scene against the model
can be efﬁciently performed in parallel via a vectorised bi-
nary search, producing a vote for each match. Accumula-
tion of votes into a shared buffer can be prohibitively expen-
sive on the GPU, where many threads would require atomic
operations when incrementing a common memory location

Figure 3. Object recognition with active search. (top-left) Mea-
sured normal map from sensor. (top-right) Predicted view from
graph. (bottom-left) Undescribed regions to be searched are in
white. (bottom-right) Masked normal map used for recognition.
Algorithm 1: Build global description from PPFs
input : A set of N point-pair features (PPF)
output: Set of search data structures
1 // Encode the PPF index and hash key
2 codes ←new array;
3 foreach i ←0 to N - 1 in parallel do
4
Compute the hash key hk from PPF i;
5
codes[i] = hk ≪32 + i;
6 codes ←Sort(codes);
7 // Decode PPF index and hash key
8 key2ppfMap ←new array;
9 hashKeys ←new array;
10 foreach i ←0 to N - 1 in parallel do
11
key2ppfMap[i] = ∼(1 ≪32) & code[i];
12
hashKeys[i] = code[i] ≫32;
13 // Count PPF per hash key and remove
duplicate keys
14 hashKeys, ppfCount ←Reduce(hashKeys,
sumOp);
15 // Find the first PPF index of a block
of PPFs in key2ppfMap having equal
hash key
16 firstPPFIndex ←ExclScan(ppfCount);
17 return hashKeys, ppfCount, firstPPFIndex,
key2ppfMap;
to avoid race conditions. To overcome this, each vote is rep-
resented as a 64-bit integer code (Figure 4), which can then
be efﬁciently sorted and reduced in parallel.
Figure 4. Packed 64-bit integer vote code. The ﬁrst 6 bits encode
the alignment angle, followed by 26 bits for the model point and
32 bits for the scene reference point.
Sorting puts corresponding model points, scene refer-
ence points and alignment angles contiguously in memory.
This is followed by a parallel reduction with a sum opera-
tion to accumulate equal vote codes (Algorithm 2). After
peak ﬁnding, pose estimates for each scene reference point
are clustered on the CPU according to translation and rota-
tion thresholds as in [6].
Algorithm 2: Accumulate Votes
input : A set of M vote codes
output: Vote count per unique vote code
1 // Sort voteCodes in parallel
2 voteCodes ←Sort(voteCodes);
3 // Count votes with equal voteCode
4 voteCodes, voteCount ←Reduce(voteCodes,
sumOp);
5 return voteCodes, voteCount;
3.3.1
Active Object Search
Standard application of Drost et al.’s recognition algo-
rithm [6] in room scenes is highly successful when objects
occupy most of the camera’s ﬁeld of view, but poor for ob-
jects which are distant or partly occluded by other objects,
due to poor sample point coverage. It is here that we re-
alise one of the major beneﬁts of our in-the-loop SLAM++
approach. The view prediction capabilities of the system
mean that we can generate a mask in image space for depth
pixels which are not already described by projected known
objects. The measured depth images from the camera are
cropped using these masks and samples are only spread in
the undescribed regions (see Figure 3).
The result of object detection is often multiple cluster
peaks, and quantised localisation results. These must be
passed to ICP reﬁnement as explained in the next section.
3.4. Camera Tracking and Accurate Object Pose
Estimation using ICP
Camera-Model Tracking: In KinectFusion [11], the
up-to-date volumetric map is leveraged to compute a view
prediction into the previously estimated camera pose, en-
abling estimation of the live camera using a fast dense itera-
tive closest point (ICP) algorithm [15]. In SLAM++, in con-
trast to the relatively incomplete models available at early
stages of mapping with KinectFusion, we track against a
complete high quality multi-object model prediction. Fol-
lowing [11], we compute a reference view prediction of
the current scene geometry consisting of a depth map Dr
and normal map Nr rendered into the previously estimated
frames pose Twr representing the 6DoF rigid body trans-
form deﬁned as a member of the special Euclidean group

SE(3).
We update the live camera to world transform
Twl by estimating a sequence of m incremental updates
{ ˜
T n
rl}m
n=1 parametrised with a vector x ∈R6 deﬁning a
twist in SE(3), with ˜T n=0
rl
as the identity. We iteratively
minimise the whole depth image point-plane metric over all
available valid pixels u ∈Ωin the live depth map:
Ec(x) =
X
u∈Ω
ψ (e(u, x)) ,
(1)
e(u, x) = Nr(u′)⊤(exp(x)ˆvl(u) −vr(u′)) .
(2)
Here vr(u′) and Nr(u′) are the projectively data associated
predicted vertex and normal estimated at a pixel correspon-
dence u′ = π(Kˆvl(u)), computed by projecting the vertex
vl(u) at pixel u from the live depth map into the reference
frame with camera intrinsic matrix K and standard pin-hole
projection function π. The current live vertex is transformed
into the reference frame using the current incremental trans-
form ˜T n
rl:
ˆvl(u) = ˜T n
rlvl(u) ,
(3)
vl(u) = K−1 ˙uDl(u) ,
(4)
vr(u′) = K−1 ˙u′Dr(u′) .
(5)
We chose ψ as a robust Huber penalty function in place of
the explicit point compatibility check used in [11] which
enables a soft outlier down weighting. A Gauss-Newton
based gradient descent on Equation (1) results in solution
of the normal equations:
X
u∈Ω
J(u)⊤J(u)x =
X
u∈Ω
ψ
′(e)J(u) ,
(6)
where J(u) =
∂e(x,u)
∂x
is the Jacobian, and ψ′ computes
the robust penalty function derivative given the currently
estimated error. We solve the 6 × 6 linear system using
Cholesky decomposition. Taking the solution vector x to
an element in SE(3) via the exponential map, we compose
the computed incremental transform at iteration n + 1 onto
the previous estimated transform ˜T n
rl:
˜T n+1
rl
←exp(x) ˜T n
rl .
(7)
The estimated live camera pose Twl therefore results by
composing the ﬁnal incremental transform ˜T m
rl onto the pre-
vious frame pose:
Twl ←Twr ˜T m
rl .
(8)
Tracking Convergence: We use a maximum of m = 10 it-
erations and check for poor convergence of the optimisation
process using two simple criteria. First, we do not attempt
to track against the predicted model if its pixel coverage is
less than 1
8 of a full image. Second, after an optimisation
iteration has completed we compute the ratio of pixels in
the live image which have been correctly matched with the
predicted model ascertained by discounting pixels which in-
duce a point-plane error greater than a speciﬁed magnitude
ϵpp.
Tracking for Model Initialisation: We utilise the dense
ICP pose estimation and convergence check for two further
key components in SLAM++. First, we note that the real-
world objects we use as features are often ambiguous, and
not well discriminated given a single view. Therefore, given
a candidate object and detected pose, we run camera-model
ICP estimation on the detected object pose, and check for
convergence using the previously described criteria.
We
ﬁnd that for correctly detected objects, the pose estimates
from the detector are erroneous within ±30◦rotation, and
±50cm translation. This allows a more conservatively set
threshold ϵoi and early rejection of incorrect objects.
Camera-Object Pose Constraints: Given the active set
of objects that have been detected in SLAM++, we further
estimate relative camera-object pose parameters which are
used to induce constraints in the scene pose graph. To that
end, we run the dense ICP estimate between the live frame
and each model object currently visible in the frame. The
ability to compute an individual relative pose estimate in-
troduces the possibility to prune poorly initialised or incor-
rectly tracked objects from the pose graph at a later date. By
analysing the statistics of the camera-object pose estimate’s
convergence we can keep an inlier-outlier style count on the
inserted objects, and cull poorly performing ones.
3.5. Graph Optimisation
Figure 5. Example graph illustrating the pose of the moving cam-
era over four time steps Twi (red) as well as the poses of three
static objects in the world Twoj (blue). Observations of the object
oj at time i are shown as binary camera-object constraints Zi,oj
(yellow) while the relative ICP constraints between two cameras
are shown as Zi,i+1 (orange). We also apply unary structural con-
straints Po2,f, Po3,f encoding prior information.
We formulate the problem of estimating the historical
poses of the depth camera Twi at time i and the poses of
the static objects Twoj as graph optimisation. Zi,oj denotes
the 6DoF measurement of object j in frame i and Σ−1
i,oj its
inverse measurement covariance which can be estimated us-
ing the approximated Hessian Σ−1
i,oj = J⊤J (with J be-

ing the Jacobian from the ﬁnal iteration of the object ICP).
Zi,i+1 is the relative ICP constraint between camera i and
i+1, with Σ−1
i,i+1 the corresponding inverse covariance. The
absolute poses Twi and Twoj are variables which are mod-
iﬁed during the optimisation, while Zi,oj and Zi,i+1 are
measurements and therefore constants. All variables and
measurements have 6DoF and are represented as members
of SE(3). An example graph is shown in Figure 5.
We minimize the sum over all measurement constraints:
Em
=
X
Zi,oj
|| log(Z−1
i,oj · T −1
wi · Twoj)||Σi,oj
+
X
Zi,i+1
|| log(Z−1
i,i+1 · T −1
wi · Twi+1)||Σi,i+1(9)
with ||x||Σ := x⊤Σ−1x the Mahalanobis distance and
log(·) the logarithmic map of SE(3). This generalised least
squares problem is solved using Levenberg-Marquardt; the
underlying normal equation’s sparsity is exploited using
a sparse Cholesky solver [9]. The pose Jacobians are of
the form ± ∂
∂ϵi log(A · exp(ϵ) · B)|ϵ=0, approximated using
higher order Baker-Campell-Haussdorf expansions [17].
3.5.1
Including Structural Priors
Additional information can be incorporated in the graph in
order to improve the robustness and accuracy of the optimi-
sation problem. In our current implementation we apply a
structural planar prior that the objects are located on a com-
mon ground plane. The world reference frame w is deﬁned
in such that the x and z-axes lie within the ground plane
with the y-axis perpendicular into it. The ground plane is
implicitly detected from the initial observation Z1,o1 of the
ﬁrst object; its pose Twf remains ﬁxed during optimisation.
To penalize divergence of the objects from the ground plane,
we augment the energy,
Em&p = Em +
X
Poj ,f
|| log(P −1
oj,f · T −1
woj · Twf)||Σoj ,f , (10)
using a set of unary constraints Poj,f = exp((υ⊤, θ⊤)⊤)
with υ, θ ∈R3 (see Figure 5). In particular, we set the
translation along the y-axis, υ2 = 0, as well as the rotational
components about the x and z-axis to zero, θ1 = 0 and
θ3 = 0. We use the following inverse prior covariances:
Σ−1
oj,f = diag(0, wtrans, 0, wrot, 0, wrot) ,
(11)
with positive weights wtrans and wrot. Since the objects can
be located anywhere within the x−z plane and are not con-
strained in their rotation about the y-axis, the corresponding
weights are set to zero; the prior components υ1, υ3, θ2 do
not affect the energy and can be set to arbitrary values.
3.6. Other Priors
The ground plane constraint can have value beyond the
pose graph. We could guide point-pair feature sampling and
make votes for poses only in the unconstrained degrees of
freedom of objects. In the ICP method, again a prior could
be used as part of the energy minimisation procedure to pull
it always towards scene-consistent poses. While this is not
yet implemented we at least cull hypotheses of object posi-
tions far from the ground plane.
3.7. Relocalisation
When camera tracking is lost the system enters a relocal-
isation mode. Here a new local graph is created and tracked
from, and when it contains at least 3 objects it is matched
against the previously tracked long-term graph (see Figure
6). Graph matching is achieved by considering both the
local and long-term graphs as sets of oriented points in a
mesh that are fed into the same recognition procedure de-
scribed in Section 3.3. We use the position of the objects
as vertices and their x-axes as normals. The matched vertex
with highest vote in the long-term graph is used instead of
the currently observed vertex in the local graph and camera
tracking is resumed from it, discarding the local map.
Figure 6. Relocalisation procedure. When tracking is lost a lo-
cal graph (blue) is created and matched against a long-term graph
(red). (top) Scene with objects and camera frustum when tracking
is resumed a few frames after relocalisation. (bottom) Oriented
points extracted for matching. The connectivity depicts the detec-
tion sequence and is not used by the recognition procedure.

4. Results
The in-the-loop operation of our system is more effec-
tively demonstrated in our submitted video than on paper,
where the advantages of our method over off-line scene
labelling may not be immediately obvious.
We present
demonstrations of a new level of real-time localisation and
mapping performance, surpassing previous SLAM systems
in the quality and density of geometry description obtained
given the very small footprint of our representation; and ri-
valling off-line multi-view scene labelling systems in terms
of object identiﬁcation and conﬁguration description.
4.1. Loop Closure
Loop closure in SLAM occurs when a location is re-
visited after a period of neglect, and the arising drift cor-
rected. In SLAM++, small loops are regularly closed using
the standard ICP tracking mechanism. Larger loop closures
(see Figure 7), where the drift is too much to enable match-
ing via predictive ICP, are detected using a module on based
matching fragments within the main long-term graph in the
same manner as in relocalisation (Section 3.7).
4.2. Large Scale Mapping
We have run SLAM++ in environments including the
large common room shown in Figure 1 (size 15×10×3m),
with two types of chair and two types of round table, all con-
strained to a common ground plane. The real-time process
lasted around 10 minutes, including various loop closures,
relocalisations due to lost tracking. 34 objects were mapped
across the room. Figure 1 gives a good idea of mapping per-
formance. Note that there are no priors in the system con-
cerning the regular positioning of tables and chairs, only
that they sit on the ground plane.
4.3. Moved Object Detection
We demonstrate the ability to detect the movement of ob-
jects, which fail ICP gating due to inconsistency (Figure 8).
Figure 8. When a mapped object is largely inconsistent with good
measurements (green) it is marked as invalid (red) and observa-
tions from it are stopped to avoid corrupting the rest of the graph.
4.4. Augmented Reality with Objects
Finally, the ability to semantically predict complete sur-
face geometry from partial views allows novel context-
aware AR capabilities such as path ﬁnding, to gracefully
avoid obstacles while reaching target objects. We apply this
to command virtual characters to navigate the scene and ﬁnd
places to sit as soon as the system is started (without the
need to scan a whole room). (Figure 9).
Figure 9. Context-aware augmented reality: virtual characters nav-
igate the mapped scene and automatically ﬁnd sitting places.
4.5. System statistics
We present system settings for mapping the room in Fig-
ure 7 (10×6×3m) using a gaming laptop. We compare the
memory footprint of SLAM++ with KinectFusion [11] for
the same volume (assuming 4 Bytes/voxel, 128 voxels/m).
Framerate
20 fps
Camera Count
132
Object Count
35
Object Class Count
5
Edge Count
338
Graph Memory
350 KB
Database Memory
20 MB
KinectFusion Memory
1.4 GB
Approx. Compression Ratio
1/70
5. Conclusions and Future Work
In this paper we have shown that using high performance
3D object recognition in the loop permits a new approach to
real-time SLAM with large advantages in terms of efﬁcient
and semantic scene description. In particular we demon-
strate how the tight interaction of recognition, mapping and
tracking elements is mutually beneﬁcial to all. Currently
our approach is well suited to locations like the interiors
of public buildings with many repeated, identical elements,
but we believe is the ﬁrst step on a path to more generic
SLAM methods which take advantage of objects with low-
dimensional shape variability or in the long term which can
segment and deﬁne their own object classes.

Figure 7. Loop closure. (left) Open loop drift during exploration of a room; the two sets of objects shown in red were identiﬁed as
corresponding. The full SLAM++ graph is displayed with yellow lines for camera-object constraints and orange lines for camera-camera
constraints. (middle) Imposing the new correspondences and re-optimising the graph closes the loop and yields a more metric map. (right)
For visualisation purposes only (since raw scans are not normally saved in SLAM++), we show a coloured point cloud after loop closure.
Acknowledgements
Renato Salas-Moreno’s research was supported by a PhD
scholarship from AMD. We are grateful to Lee Howes for
useful discussions.
We also acknowledge support from
ERC Starting Grant 210346.
References
[1] Advanced Micro Devices Inc. Bolt C++ Template Library.
2012. 3
[2] D. H. Ballard. Generalizing the Hough Transform to De-
tect Arbitrary Shapes. Pattern Recognition, 12(2):111–122,
1981. 3
[3] S. Y. Bao, M. Bagra, Y.-W. Chao, and S. Savarese. Semantic
Structure From Motion with Points, Regions, and Objects.
In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2012. 2
[4] R. O. Castle, D. J. Gawley, G. Klein, and D. W. Murray.
Towards simultaneous recognition, localization and mapping
for hand-held and wearable cameras. In Proceedings of the
IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation
(ICRA), 2007. 2
[5] A. J. Davison.
Real-Time Simultaneous Localisation and
Mapping with a Single Camera. In Proceedings of the In-
ternational Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV), 2003.
2
[6] B. Drost, M. Ulrich, N. Navab, and S. Ilic. Model globally,
match locally: Efﬁcient and robust 3D object recognition.
In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2010. 3, 4
[7] Y. M. Kim, N. J. Mitra, D.-M. Yan, and L. Guibas. Acquiring
3D Indoor Environments with Variability and Repetition. In
SIGGRAPH Asia, 2012. 2
[8] G. Klein and D. W. Murray.
Parallel Tracking and Map-
ping for Small AR Workspaces. In Proceedings of the Inter-
national Symposium on Mixed and Augmented Reality (IS-
MAR), 2007. 2
[9] R. K¨ummerle, G. Grisetti, H. Strasdat, K. Konolige, and
W. Burgard. g2o: A General Framework for Graph Opti-
mization. In Proceedings of the IEEE International Confer-
ence on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2011. 6
[10] W. E. Lorensen and H. E. Cline. Marching Cubes: A high
resolution 3D surface construction algorithm. In Proceed-
ings of SIGGRAPH, 1987. 3
[11] R. A. Newcombe, S. Izadi, O. Hilliges, D. Molyneaux,
D. Kim, A. J. Davison, P. Kohli, J. Shotton, S. Hodges,
and A. Fitzgibbon.
KinectFusion: Real-Time Dense Sur-
face Mapping and Tracking.
In Proceedings of the Inter-
national Symposium on Mixed and Augmented Reality (IS-
MAR), 2011. 2, 3, 4, 5, 7
[12] R. A. Newcombe, S. Lovegrove, and A. J. Davison. DTAM:
Dense Tracking and Mapping in Real-Time. In Proceedings
of the International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV),
2011. 2
[13] F. T. Ramos, J. I. Nieto, and H. F. Durrant-Whyte. Combin-
ing object recognition and SLAM for extended map repre-
sentations. In Experimental Robotics, volume 39 of Springer
Tracts in Advanced Robotics, pages 55–64. Springer, 2008.
2
[14] X. Ren, L. Bo, and D. Fox. Indoor Scene Labeling using
RGB-D Data. In Workshop on RGB-D: Advanced Reasoning
with Depth Cameras, in conjunction with Robotics: Science
and Systems, 2012. 2
[15] S. Rusinkiewicz and M. Levoy. Efﬁcient Variants of the ICP
Algorithm. In Proceedings of the IEEE International Work-
shop on 3D Digital Imaging and Modeling (3DIM), 2001.
4
[16] N. Silberman and R. Fergus.
Indoor Scene Segmentation
using a Structured Light Sensor. In Workshop on 3D Repre-
sentation and Recognition, in conjunction with International
Conference on Computer Vision, 2011. 2
[17] H. Strasdat. Local Accuracy and Global Consistency for Ef-
ﬁcient Visual SLAM. PhD thesis, Imperial College London,
2012. 6
[18] T. Whelan, J. McDonald, M. Kaess, M. Fallon, H. Johanns-
son, and J. J. Leonard.
Kintinuous: Spatially Extended
KinectFusion. In Workshop on RGB-D: Advanced Reasoning
with Depth Cameras, in conjunction with Robotics: Science
and Systems, 2012. 2
