A PIPELINE FOR MULTIPLE ORANGE DETECTION AND TRACKING
WITH 3-D FRUIT RELOCALIZATION AND NEURAL-NET BASED
YIELD REGRESSION IN COMMERCIAL CITRUS ORCHARDS
A PREPRINT
Thiago T. Santos
Embrapa Digital Agriculture
thiago.santos@embrapa.br
Kleber X. S. de Souza
Embrapa Digital Agriculture
kleber.sampaio@embrapa.br
João Camargo Neto
Embrapa Digital Agriculture
joao.camargo@embrapa.br
Luciano V. Koenigkan
Embrapa Digital Agriculture
luciano.vieira@embrapa.br
Alécio S. Moreira
Embrapa Digital Agriculture
alecio.moreira@embrapa.br
Sônia Ternes
Embrapa Digital Agriculture
sonia.ternes@embrapa.br
December 29, 2023
ABSTRACT
Traditionally, sweet orange crop forecasting has involved manually counting fruits from numerous
trees, which is a labor-intensive process. Automatic systems for fruit counting based on proximal
imaging, computer vision, and machine learning, have been considered a promising alternative or
complement to manual counting. These systems require data association components that prevent
multiple counting of the same fruit observed in different images. However, there is a lack of work
evaluating the accuracy of multiple fruit counting, especially considering (i) occluded and re-entering
green fruits on leafy trees, and (ii) counting ground-truth data measured in the crop field. Here, we
propose a non-invasive alternative that utilizes fruit counting from videos, implemented as a pipeline.
Firstly, we employ convolutional neural networks for the detection of visible fruits. Inter-frame
association techniques are then applied to track the fruits across frames. To handle occluded and re-
appeared fruit, we introduce a relocalization component that employs 3-D estimation of fruit locations.
Finally, a neural network regressor is utilized to estimate the total number of fruit, integrating image-
based fruit counting with other tree data such as crop variety and tree size. The results demonstrate
that the performance of our approach is closely tied to the quality of the field-collected videos. By
ensuring that at least 30% of the fruit is accurately detected, tracked, and counted, our yield regressor
achieves an impressive coefficient of determination of 0.85. To the best of our knowledge, this study
represents one of the few endeavors in fruit estimation that incorporates manual fruit counting as a
reference point for evaluation. We also introduce annotated datasets for multiple orange tracking
(MORANGET) and orange detection (ORANDET), which are publicly available and aim to foster the
development of novel methods for image-based fruit counting.
Keywords Orange fruit detection · Orange fruit counting · Multiple-object tracking · Crop yield estimation · Deep
learning · Digital agriculture
1
Introduction
Accurate fruit yield estimation is important for making informed decisions about harvesting, storage, and marketing,
but such estimation can be a challenging task. Consider the major citrus belt in Brazil, which covers areas in two states
(São Paulo and Minas Gerais) and sums 461,921 hectares, 86% reserved to sweet orange production, according to the
Fund for Citrus Protection, Fundecitrus [2022]. The most used annual orange crop forecast process, performed by
Fundecitrus, is a laborious operation that involves manual fruit stripping (the advanced harvest of all fruit in the tree), in
arXiv:2312.16724v1  [cs.CV]  27 Dec 2023

A pipeline for MOT with 3-D relocalization and NN-based yield regression in citrus
A PREPRINT
samples of around 1,500 trees spread across this citrus belt. Such sampling and counting procedures are a usual way to
obtain pre-harvest fruit yield data [Wulfsohn et al., 2012, He et al., 2022a].
Computer vision-based methods have been considered as a prominent alternative for automatic, non-invasive fruit
counting, becoming parts of larger yield estimation systems. Earlier works employed feature engineering [Gongal
et al., 2015] to create fruit detectors, exploring low-level features in images derived from color and texture. An example
for citrus was presented by Maldonado and Barbosa [2016], that employed image processing techniques and support
vector machines to detect green oranges in field images. With the popularization of deep learning, convolutional neural
networks (CNNs) were adopted for automatic feature learning (representation learning) [LeCun et al., 2015]. The
work by Sa et al. [2016] is a turning point in the adoption of CNNs in fruits detection, and this passage from feature
engineering to representation learning is reviewed by Koirala et al. [2019b].
Despite significant progress in automated fruit detection using deep learning techniques, the counting stage of the
processing pipeline remains a challenging area that requires further development. Single images cannot provide reliable
estimates of fruit counting because of occluded fruit: a single standpoint keeps a significant part of the fruit out of
sight [Wang et al., 2019]. A natural alternative is to employ multiple images (or, equivalently, video sequences), to get
different views able to reach most of the targets and perform counting of the detected fruits. However, while single-view
fruit counting presents underestimation issues, a major limitation of multiple-view fruit counting is overestimation of
yield due to overlapping images, which must be properly managed to ensure accurate counting [Villacrés et al., 2023].
An approach being explored recently is to scan the orchards using cameras and to assign a unique identifier to each fruit
along the image sequence [de Jong et al., 2022, Villacrés et al., 2023]. Such approach, Multi Object Tracking (MOT),
involves detecting multiple objects in a sequence of images and linking them over time to identify individual objects
[Luiten et al., 2021]. This is a challenging task that requires precise detection, localization, and association of a same
object in different images. Essentially, the goal is to identify each object’s location, movement, and identity throughout
the entire sequence, avoiding multiple counting of the same object (a fruit). Fruit detection and tracking can also be
considered a component of semantic scene understanding systems1 for agricultural settings, allowing artificial agents to
extract semantic information about the objects in an orchard and interact usefully with its environment. Examples of
such interactions are crop monitoring, spraying and harvesting [Duckett et al., 2018].
Our objective is to contribute to crop forecast by providing estimates of the actual number of fruits on a tree. We start
with the challenging task of counting visible oranges on individual trees under real citrus farm conditions using video
inputs. Yield prediction is performed in earlier maturation stages of sweet orange, when the fruit is green (non-mature),
lacking the color contrast against green leaves observed in mature fruit [Gong et al., 2013]. The imaging is performed
on ground level, between trees rows, employing smartphone cameras. In such a setting, there is an issue: tall trees (up
to 5 meters height) cannot be fully imaged in a single frame. In other words, considering the available inter-row space,
the trees’ height and the absence of wide-angle optics, it is not possible to keep the entire tree in the camera’s field of
view (FOV). Even in the case of wide-angle optics availability, a single view of a tree cannot provide a full assessment
of the entire plant fruit set because of occlusions. Therefore, we need of a multiple-view counting system to solve this
issue. After fruit counting, we proceed to the yield estimation for each tree. This value differs from the counted fruit
by any computer vision system, since there are oranges located in the inner part of the plant canopy, not visible in the
images collected in the field even considering multiple views. We implement a neural net-based regressor to estimate
the actual number of fruit from the fruit counting, integrating other data as plant height, variety, and age. Although we
use a different set of methods, our work is similar to the one by Häni et al. [2020] in that they also propose a pipeline
comprising fruit detection, 3-D projection, fruit counting and yield estimation in apple orchards. However, our study
faces a more challenging scenario considering occlusions and fruit tracking.
The main contributions of this work are:
• a simple but effective annotation methodology for multiple object tracking in citrus, exploiting camera pose
data by structure from motion to estimate the fruits’ 3-D location and automate the generation of 2-D tracks
ground-truth;
• the introduction of MORANGET [Santos et al., 2023], a public MOT dataset for citrus composed by images
sequences (frames) recorded on citrus farms plus ground-truth tracking data in the MOT16 format [Milan
et al., 2016], whose annotation effort was performed by our team;
• a multiple fruit detection and tracking method based on convolutional networks for detection, on the Hungarian
algorithm [Kuhn, 1955] for inter-frame association, and a relocalization algorithm to treat occlusions and fruits
exiting/entering the camera’s field of view;
• an evaluation of the proposed method employing the multiple object tracking accuracy (MOTA) [Bernardin
and Stiefelhagen, 2008] and the higher order tracking accuracy (HOTA) [Luiten et al., 2021], and
1Or SpatialAI systems, as proposed by Davison [2018].
2

A pipeline for MOT with 3-D relocalization and NN-based yield regression in citrus
A PREPRINT
• proposition of a regressor based on artificial neural networks to estimate the number of fruit in a tree given the
number of fruit counted using MOT, validated using a set of 1,139 trees with real yield manually collected.
A useful property of the proposed tracking method is the fruit’s relative position in 3-D is also estimated, allowing
assessment of the spatial distribution of fruits in the tree.
This work is organized as follows. In Section 2 we provide a comprehensive overview of related works in the field
of fruit counting and yield estimation. We discuss the various methods employed for fruit detection and inter-frame
fruit association. Section 3 presents our proposed methodology, which encompasses the MORANGET dataset, a novel
annotation technique for MOT ground-truth, the methods employed for orange tracking, and tree yield estimation. The
results of our experiments are presented in Section 4, followed by a detailed discussion of the findings in Section 5.
Finally, in Section 6, we present our concluding remarks, summarizing the main contributions of this work and outlining
potential paths for future research. For a visual overview, a video showing our fruit counting results is available2.
2
Related work
After the raise of CNN-based methods for fruit detection, initiated by Sa et al. [2016], researchers have explored the
problem of fruit counting in multiple images, considering important challenges as fruit recounting and occlusions
[Wang et al., 2019, de Jong et al., 2022, Villacrés et al., 2023]. Most of these works add a data association procedure to
link detected oranges in different images, avoiding multiple counting, and commonly employing a tracking algorithm.
Some researchers extended their fruit counting systems to yield estimation [Liu et al., 2019, Häni et al., 2020, Koirala
et al., 2021], generally using (linear) regression.
Liu et al. [2019] proposed a fruit counting system tested on data from mangoes orchards. A dataset of 1, 500 images,
presenting a resolution of 500 × 500 pixels, was employed to train a Faster R-CNN detector [Ren et al., 2017]. The
mangoes’ tracking was performed by a method employing Kanade-Lucas-Tomasi algorithm (optical flow or KLT),
Kalman filters, and the Hungarian algorithm [Kuhn, 1955]. To deal with long-time occlusions and reappearing fruits,
they employed a relocalization procedure based on the fruit’s estimated 3-D position and reprojection on the current
frame. They used structure from motion (SfM) [Dellaert, 2021], using the mangoes as 3-D landmarks and their tracked
positions in images as measurements. In SfM, the three-dimensional positions of landmarks and the camera are
estimated from the measurements (2-D positions in each frame) using non-linear least squares [Hartley and Zisserman,
2004, Dellaert, 2021]. Liu et al. employed COLMAP [Schonberger and Frahm, 2016] as SfM implementation, getting
estimations for the mangoes locations in 3-D and the camera position in space at each frame. To avoid multiple counting,
mangoes/landmarks and Faster R-CNN detected bounding boxes are reassociated using the Hungarian algorithm and a
specially designed association cost function. Liu et al. achieved a coefficient of determination (R2) of 0.78 in a linear
regression model relating fruit count to yield after considering views from two different vantage points of two rows
facing opposite sides of the trees.
Concurrently, Wang et al. [2019] proposed another image-based counting system for mangoes. Using 10 fps video
sequences scaled to 1024 × 1024 pixels frames, they employed their MangoYOLO model, a 33-layers adaption of
YOLOv3 [Koirala et al., 2019a], to detect fruits. Kalman filter was employed on tracking, estimating the fruit positions
in the next frame. The Hungarian algorithm was used to assign predicted fruit positions to detections in the current
frame, using the fruits’ centroids distances on the cost function. Wang et al. adopted a threshold for lost trackers: after
15 frames without associations to MangoYOLO detections, the Kalman-based tracker is ended – if the fruit re-appear, it
is considered a new fruit, incrementing counting. In an experiment involving a row containing 21 trees, the authors
reported a root-mean-square error (RMSE) of 18 fruits/tree. However, reported results indicate a canceling occurring in
the mean error between overestimation by repeated counting and underestimation by missed fruits.
Gan et al. [2020] proposed a novel approach where a vehicle carrying nozzles applied a water mist to citrus trees.
The mist induced temperature contrast between fruits and leaves and a thermal camera, also embedded in the vehicle,
recorded video streams of thermal frames. Careful experimentation was conducted to find optimal parameters for
the amount of water and kind of nozzle, and the impact of ambient temperature and humidity considering the goal
of maximizing temperature contrast. A Faster R-CNN model was trained for orange detection in the thermal images,
reaching 87.2% average precision (AP). KLT tracking was employed to avoid multiple counting, but the data association
used by the authors for multiple fruit tracking is unclear. In a row containing 25 trees, their method was able to count
96% of the 747 manually counted fruits in the field. However, the thermal camera’s FOV was unable to cover the entire
canopy, so the manually collected ground-truth was restricted to the view area, marked using nylon strings.
Gao et al. [2022] have explored the modern fruiting-wall growing system for apples, where the apple tree canopy is thin,
making the fruits and trunks visible. Fruit detection and tree trunk detection were performed using the YOLOv4-tiny
2https://youtu.be/hOq42KMskLQ
3

A pipeline for MOT with 3-D relocalization and NN-based yield regression in citrus
A PREPRINT
architecture [Bochkovskiy et al., 2020], a fast neural network aimed for real-time applications. They assume a linear
movement of the camera (embedded in a vehicle), so their tracking is adapted to deal with horizontal movements
only. The CSR-DCF algorithm [Lukezic et al., 2017], a single target tracker, was employed on trunk tracking, and
the estimated horizontal movement guided the apples tracking. Inter-frame fruit assignment is guided by minimum
Euclidean distance between fruits’ centroids, but the employed assignment algorithm is not completely clear. The
counting system, evaluated using annotated videos (not the true yield or the manual counting on the field), reached
R2 = 0.98. However, the reported results show detection errors in a single frame (mainly false negatives) produce
immediate tracking errors.
The APPLE MOTS dataset was introduced by de Jong et al. [2022]. Two UAVs and a wearable device, where a
camera is embedded in a helmet, were employed to get video sequences in orchards presenting three different apple
varieties. The CVAT annotation tool was employed to produce almost 86,000 manually annotated masks associated
to 2,304 unique apple instances across 1,673 frames. The authors further evaluated two different MOT algorithms,
TrackR-CNN [Voigtlaender et al., 2019] and PointTrack [Xu et al., 2020]. The best results were produced by PointTrack,
that reached 52.9 in the multi-object tracking and segmentation accuracy (MOTSA) metric, a variation of the MOTA
metric [Milan et al., 2016] for segmented objects3. The authors call attention to the fact that multiple fruit tracking
involves homogeneous objects, i.e., objects very similar to each other. This differs from the people tracking, a popular
task in computer vision because of research on surveillance and autonomous vehicles. De Jong et al. consider if this
homogeneity in object appearance could impact methods developed originally for pedestrian tracking in different ways.
Another work employing a MOT formulation was presented by He et al. [2022b], again following a tracking by detection
framework: a YOLOv3 network [Redmon and Farhadi, 2018] was employed to find camellia fruit and apples, and
Kalman filters used on fruit tracking. The Mahalanobis distance and the Kalman-based predictions are employed to
define eligible associations between tracks and new detections in the current frame. Then a similarity function based on
appearance is employed on association by a nearest-neighbor algorithm. Such a combination of spatial filtering and
appearance similarity was named Cascade-SORT by the authors. He et al. [2022b], have reached MOTA values beyond
0.70 for most of their tests. However, their results are composed of just four short video sequences (one for camellia
and three for apples).
Zhang et al. [2022] proposed a multiple object tracking method for citrus in-field, composed of a detection component,
OrangeYOLO, and a tracking component, OrangeSORT, which are modified versions of the YOLOv3 network [Redmon
and Farhadi, 2018] and the SORT algorithm [Bewley et al., 2016], respectively. A wide-angle action camera4 was
adapted to a field rover, that performed a linear movement across orchards’ rows at 2 m/s. Zhang et al. carefully
selected three scales from YOLOv3’s backbone (Darknet53) after analyzing the receptive fields and the oranges’ sizes,
getting significant improvements in detection. OrangeYOLO also presents a channel-spatial attention mechanism, but
the ablation experiment results showed a marginal gain in detection by this extension to the architecture. OrangeSORT
computes the average motion displacement observed in the tracked fruits to update the state of lost trackers (Kalman
filters), i.e., trackers not associated to any OrangeYOLO’s detection at the current frame. In the six videos collected
in-field for testing, counting error varied from 0.61% (the best case) to 24.29% (worst case).
Villacrés et al. [2023] evaluated five different MOT algorithms for tracking apples in-field: (i) multiple Kalman filters
combined with the Hungarian algorithm; (ii) kernelized correlation filter; (iii) multiple hypothesis tracking (MHT)
[Kim et al., 2015]; (iv) SORT [Bewley et al., 2016] and (v) DeepSORT [Wojke et al., 2018]. They trained the employed
apple detectors, Faster R-CNN and YOLOv5, using public datasets as MinneApple [Hani et al., 2020] and Fuji-SfM
[Gené-Mola et al., 2020]. Nine videos recorded in-field using smartphones5 were employed on the apples tracking
evaluation. Annotations in the MOT format [Milan et al., 2016] for the videos were produced using the open-source
tool CVAT6. The authors conducted an interesting sensitivity analysis, employing the ground-truth bounding boxes as
input for the trackers, but degrading the detection probability from 100% (all boxes in the ground-truth) to 20%. MHT
and DeepSORT showed the best tracking performances, even at 60% detection rate. When considering detections from
the neural nets, YOLOv5 produced the best detections for tracking, while DeepSORT produced the best results: 20.1%
error on average for fruit counting.
What is the proper way to evaluate MOT trackers? According to Luiten et al. [2021], evaluation metrics serve two
primary purposes. Firstly, they allow for straightforward comparison between various methods to determine which ones
perform better than others. To achieve this objective, it is recommended to have a single metric that can be used to rank
and compare these methods. Secondly, evaluation metrics are essential for analyzing and comprehending the various
types of errors that algorithms make, identifying where they are likely to fall short when applied. The HOTA metric
3In the segmentation case, masks are provided as object segmentation ground-truth, not just the rectangular bounding boxes.
4A DJI Osmo Action camera, presenting 145° FOV.
5Smartphones iPhone 6S Plus and iPhone 13, Apple Inc.
6CVAT – http://cvat.ai.
4

A pipeline for MOT with 3-D relocalization and NN-based yield regression in citrus
A PREPRINT
[Luiten et al., 2021] was proposed with these two objectives in mind for the complex task of multiple object tracking.
As stated by its proponents:
HOTA measures how well the trajectories of matching detections align, and averages this over all
matching detections, while also penalizing detections that don’t match.
Few works have employed proper MOT metrics for multiple fruit tracking [de Jong et al., 2022, Villacrés et al., 2023],
most of them employing the multiple object tracking accuracy (MOTA) metric proposed by Bernardin and Stiefelhagen
[2008]. However, MOTA has been criticized because it tends to prioritize detection over association [Luiten et al.,
2021], while HOTA offers a balanced combination of detection and association scores.
Lost detections, caused by occlusions and the harsh light conditions in orchards, lead to fruit track breaks and yield
overestimation, as noted by He et al. [2022b] and observed in results by Gao et al. [2022]. We argue that a long-term
process, as relocalization, is needed for fruit counting, providing robustness to short-term detection association in
neighbor video frames. The same was speculated by Villacrés et al. [2023] while Liu et al. [2019] developed their
landmark-based re-association method to tackle this issue. The present work is closely related to [Liu et al., 2019]: the
3-D information is employed to, using geometrical restrictions, properly re-assigned lost fruits, and both works use SfM
to get 3-D information. However, Liu et al. [2019] use the fruits as landmarks, an interesting approach to reduce SfM
complexity, but it raises questions about SfM performance when only a few fruits (or none) are seen by the camera. In
such case, the SfM framework could not have landmarks to proper camera motion estimation. In our method, SfM is
performed to get the camera relative motion (ego-motion), and fruit localization in 3-D is performed as an independent
process. The tracking method presented in our work, however, is more similar to SORT-based methods, in the sense the
assignments are performed online if ego-motion data is available, differently from the offline SfM processing in Liu
et al. [2019]. Our approach is complementary to the method presented by He et al. [2022b], which assumed unknown
camera position (no ego-motion) and employed Kalman filter-based tracking to predict the trajectories of occluded or
misdetected fruits. Conversely, we explore relocalization for long-term tracking, based not on appearance, but on 3-D
localization estimated using ego-motion data.
The methods for yield estimation vary depending on the type of data collected or the crop. Wulfsohn et al. [2012]
sample trees from an orchard and select branches and segments of branches using a multi-stage systematic sampling
approach. They then apply statistical methods to propose a yield estimator. On the other hand, Häni et al. [2020] used
machine learning and tracking to provide a direct estimation of fruits. In their case, the structure of the plants makes
the fruit visible on the surface of the canopy, allowing direct counting. Direct estimation of fruits based on images
was also performed by Maldonado and Barbosa [2016]. In our problem, direct estimation is not viable because we
identified a large gap between the visible fruits and the total number of fruits obtained through manual harvesting. This
gap may result from the fact that some fruit is located inside the canopy. To address this issue, we propose a neural
network regressor for the yield that considers the number of identified fruits and other relevant variables, as detailed
in Section 3.4. A similar approach was used in estimating mango fruit load, where Koirala et al. [2019a] applied a
correction factor to estimate the fruit load per orchard. However, unlike the regressor we are proposing, this correction
factor is calculated per orchard based on the average ratio of the number of fruits identified in images to the manual
harvest count per tree in the field.
3
Materials and methods
Our pipeline takes video files that record both faces of a tree, one for each side of the row, in the field. It then generates
an estimation of the total yield for that tree, measured in the number of fruits. Figure 1 shows a pipeline overview.
Videos are recorded by field staff (Section 3.1.2), and ID numeric plates are displayed in the first frames to identify each
tree. The first step of the pipeline is to identify the plate and extract the tree ID t. The entire sequence of video frames
is extracted from the video file, and a frame sampling procedure (Section 3.1.3) selects a subset. As the recording is
performed by handheld cameras (smartphones), and the human camera operator slowly films the tree, several frames
can be very similar because of too slow camera motion: the frame selection employs the well-known framework
of feature detection and matching [Muja and Lowe, 2014] to select frames presenting distinguished changes, but
avoiding large movement that could prejudice ego-motion estimation and fruit tracking. The selected frames feed a
structure from motion procedure that estimates the camera parameters, including position and orientation, for each
frame (Section 3.1.4). The selected frames are also inputted to a fruit detection neural network, producing a set of
rectangular bounding boxes that mark the observed oranges in each frame (Section 3.2). Our fruit tracking procedure
(Section 3.3) takes the camera parameters and the detected boxes in each frame to track the oranges in the frame
sequence. A 3-D relocalization component deals with occlusions and fruits exiting and entering the camera FOV. The
bounding boxes are grouped in tracks, defining the path that every single orange performed in the frame sequence.
These tracks are not necessarily contiguous, properly dealing with long-term occlusions and fruit reappearance. The
5

A pipeline for MOT with 3-D relocalization and NN-based yield regression in citrus
A PREPRINT
5
Get tree ID
(a)
Extract frames
5, t
(b)
Ft = ⟨f1, f2, . . . , fN⟩
Frame
selection
(ORB + FLANN)
(c)
F′
t = ⟨f1, f2, . . . , fM⟩
Structure
from motion
(COLMAP)
(e)
Fruit detection
(CNN)
(d)
Tracker
(Hungarian +
re-localization)
Pi, i ∈[1, M]
bboxes
(f)
Tree yield
regressor
(NN)
num. visible fruits
(g)
height, age, variety, ...
yt
(tree yield)
Figure 1: Pipeline overview. In the input video (single face of a single tree), a marker identifying the tree t is visible
in the first frames. The tree is identified (a), and its frame sequence Ft is extracted (b). A frame selection procedure
removes redundant frames (few or no motion), producing a reduced sequence F′
t (c). Fruit detection by a CNN (d) and
Structure from motion by COLMAP (e) are performed for the frames in F′
t. The ego-motion (set of projective matrices
Pi) and the found bounding boxes feed the tracker (f). Finally, the number of found visible fruits and other tree data
(height, age, . ..) are employed by a regressor to estimate the total number of oranges in tree t (g).
number of tracks corresponds to the number of observed fruits in the video. Finally, this number is combined with the
value found for the other face of the tree and with additional data, such as tree variety, height, and plant age. Such data
is inputted to a yield regressor (Section 3.4), that produces a final estimation of the number of fruits yt in the tree t.
3.1
Dataset
The pipeline shown in Figure 1 was executed for a set with more than 1,500 sweet orange trees. However, the computer
vision-based components need annotated datasets for training and evaluation. Such annotation effort, although favored
6

A pipeline for MOT with 3-D relocalization and NN-based yield regression in citrus
A PREPRINT
by the new annotation tool presented in Section 3.1.5, could not be performed for the entire video set. A subset
of 12 videos was annotated for multiple object tracking evaluation, forming the MORANGET dataset. Part of these
annotations were combined to previously annotated images to form another dataset, ORANDET, built for orange
detection. Such data allowed the training and evaluation of the fruit detection and tracker modules in the pipeline.
Although it was not feasible to evaluate multiple object tracking with all 1,543 trees, the whole set was processed
through the pipeline and forwarded to the yield regressor. This last step, however, processed only 1,139 trees, which
satisfied the requirement of having at least a fruit counting for one of its sides, as well as other information considered
relevant, as one can see in Section 3.4.1. The following sections provide a more in-depth description of such data.
3.1.1
Orange Crop Forecast data
The Orange Crop Forecast, conducted by Fundecitrus [2022], utilized a stratified random sampling technique to select a
representative sample of 1,560 orange trees. The initial drawing involved 1,200 trees that were proportionally distributed
across the citrus belt, stratified based on their region, variety, and age. An additional drawing included 360 resets of
younger ages to replace trees lost due to diseases, and other causes. To obtain the sample, a fruit stripping method was
employed, involving the advanced harvest of all fruits from each tree. During the stripping process in the field, fruits
from different flowering periods and consequently, in different phenological stages were sampled: green fruit close to
the final size (classified as fruit from the 1st flowering period, F1); green fruit with a table tennis ball size (∼4.5 cm
diameter, classified as fruit from the 2nd flowering period, F2); and green fruit with a marble ball size (up to ∼3.0 cm
diameter, classified as from the 3rd period, F3) [Barbasso et al., 2005]. The fruit-stripping operation took place between
March 28 and May 11, 2022, and the harvested fruits were transported to a laboratory in Araraquara, SP, Brazil. At the
laboratory, the fruits were sorted into different bloom categories and quantified using automatic counting equipment
before being weighed. Fundecitrus provided the ground-truth for fruit counting, tree height, age, and fruit variety for
1,543 trees.
3.1.2
Video recording
The crop forecast staff was instructed to record video sequences for each tree before the manual fruit stripping.
Smartphones were employed to record videos presenting a resolution of 1940 × 1080 pixels. The staff was oriented to
record the videos in portrait orientation, maximizing the field of view in the vertical direction. Considering the trees’
density in commercial farms, it is not feasible to cover an entire tree canopy in a single pass, considering the employed
smartphones do not present wide-angle lenses. So, for each tree in the sample, the forecast staff recorded a video for
each side of that tree, i.e., the facade facing a row of the orchard. For each side, the staff member performed a trajectory,
recording first the bottom of the tree, then moving to the central part and, finally, recording the top of the canopy, all
contained in a single video take, as shown in Figure 2.
The staff works on a rigid schedule determined by the forecasting deadline, so the video sequences must be recorded
under the available light conditions at that moment. If the light conditions are not ideal, for example, when the sun is
behind the tree of interest, the staff member has to record the video anyway. This commonly produces frames presenting
direct sunlight over the camera for the higher parts of the canopy. For the same reason, the video set presents diverse
exposures, caused by different sunlight and shadows patterns in the trees.
3.1.3
Frame sampling
For each video (single tree side), all frames are initially extracted using the FFmpeg library7, producing a sequence
of frames F = ⟨f1, f2, . . . , fN⟩(see Figure 1). However, not all the N frames are needed for the fruit detection and
tracking: similar neighboring frames can be removed to reduce processing time. The method employed for frame
sampling is divided into two steps. Firstly, the ORB keypoint detector and descriptor [Rublee et al., 2011] is employed
to extract features for each frame. After the first frame f1 is added to the sample, the following procedure is iteratively
repeated. Let fi be the last frame in F included in the sample. Descriptors of the frame fi are compared to those of a
frame fj , j ∈[i + 1, N] using the FLANN algorithm [Muja and Lowe, 2014], that produces a set of matching features
between the two frames. If the number of corresponding descriptors is below a threshold, that indicates significant
differences between frames, and fj is included in the sample. Otherwise, the spatial coordinates are used to calculate
the average distance between matched keypoints. If this average distance exceeds a defined threshold (10 pixels), fj is
added to the sample. This process is repeated between the last selected frame and the subsequent frames until all the
original N frames are analyzed. After sampling, we have a sequence F′ = ⟨f1, f2, . . . , fM⟩, M < N (the remaining
frames are sequentially re-indexed). On average, this sampling procedure reduces the number of frames by 50 to 70
percent.
7FFmpeg – https://ffmpeg.org.
7

A pipeline for MOT with 3-D relocalization and NN-based yield regression in citrus
A PREPRINT
(a) Recording a 4.9 m height Valencia orange tree, camera
path in red.
(b) Detail: each red pyramid shows the camera’s projection
center position and orientation.
(c) Frame 100
(d) Frame 200
(e) Frame 300
(f) Frame 400
(g) Frame 500
Figure 2: The tree recording process. A smartphone is used to record a video, following the path showed in red (a).
The operator starts imaging the tree bottom, then following to the middle and top of the canopy, changing the camera
orientation as needed (b). A sample of five frames is also shown (c–g).
3.1.4
Camera matrix estimation
Both our annotation tool and our fruit relocalization procedure rely on knowledge about the camera projective matrix.
This matrix encodes all geometrical information needed to model the projective process, including the camera intrinsic
parameters (focal distance, for example) and the extrinsic parameters: the camera position and orientation in the
tridimensional space (ego-motion) [Hartley and Zisserman, 2004]. For each frame fi ∈F′, we need a 3 × 4 projective
matrix Pi such that:
xi = PiX,
(1)
where X is a tridimensional point in the scene and xi its projection on frame fi. The Pi matrices can be estimated from
image sequences by pose graph optimization (PGO), simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM), structure from
motion (SfM) [Dellaert, 2021] or visual-inertial navigation (VIN) [Huang, 2019]. In this work, we have employed
structure from motion, using the COLMAP tool proposed by Schonberger and Frahm [2016]. Figure 2a and Figure 2b
show an example of the camera position and orientation recovered by COLMAP for a frame sequence in the dataset,
and includes some tree structure: several points X in the scene that acted as landmarks in the SfM process [Dellaert,
2021]. The SfM results from COLMAP are also included in the public dataset.
8

A pipeline for MOT with 3-D relocalization and NN-based yield regression in citrus
A PREPRINT
Figure 3: The mosaic window from the custom annotation tool for orange tracks annotation. The sequence is composed
by 544 images (frames), represented by 544 squares in the mosaic. When the orange is in the FOV, a view extracted
from the corresponding frame is displayed in the mosaic. White marks mean occlusion, while the red ones means above
50% visibility (non-occluded). Best seen in digital format.
3.1.5
Annotation and the MORANGET dataset for fruit tracking
As pointed by de Jong et al. [2022], multiple fruit tracking involves homogeneous objects. Identifying fruits that have
been hidden from view for extended periods, either due to occlusions or being out of sight, is a challenging error-prone
task, even for humans. Even when the fruit is visible, registering a bounding box for an orange in each frame is a slow
and tedious work. Considering these issues, we have developed a new annotation tool that exploits the spherical shape
of oranges and employs camera position information estimated by structure from motion.
The developed tool lets the users in charge of annotations to draw square bounding boxes for an orange in a few frames.
Using the camera projective matrices Pi for each frame, the orange’s center and ray are estimated in the 3-D space.
The fruit is reprojected on all frames (using Equation 1), being the tool able to automatically check if the fruit is in the
FOV of each frame and, in the positive cases, draw a proper bounding box. The user can adjust every bounding box in
every frame and, if needed, re-estimate the spherical orange in 3-D and reproject it again, refining the fruit localization.
Nonetheless, the user is required to search for instances of occlusion where the orange is obstructed by leaves, branches,
or other fruits, even though it is within the camera’s view. This method has made the process of annotating orange
tracks faster and more reliable, especially when faced with challenging relocalization instances. The capability to
modify the orange’s ray in 3-D and then project it onto frames results in well-adjusted bounding boxes, which would
have otherwise required laborious efforts from annotators.
Figure 3 shows the mosaic window from the custom annotation tool. In this example, the tool is displaying the views of
a single orange in a 544 frame long sequence. Each square in the mosaic corresponds to the view of that orange in the
current frame, including part of its neighborhood. The orange’s center and bounding box are displayed in blue. Note
the same orange enters and exits the field of view three times, entering at frames 53, 218 and 446. Furthermore, three
occluded segments are observed: between frames 106–119, 218–227 (occlusion by other orange) and 508–528. We
have adopted two conventions: if more than 50% of the fruit is visible, it is considered non-occluded (marked in red in
Figure 3). Otherwise, the orange is considered occluded (marked in white). Moreover, if any part of the bounding box
is out FOV, the orange is considered non-visible, to avoid unfairly penalizing trackers in borderline cases.
9

A pipeline for MOT with 3-D relocalization and NN-based yield regression in citrus
A PREPRINT
Table 1: MORANGET frame sequences. Each sequence corresponds to one side of one tree from five different regions
in São Paulo state: Limeira (LIM), Duartina (DUA), Porto Ferreira (PFE), Brotas (BRO) and Avaré (AVA).
Sequence
Gimble
Region
Variety
Planting year
Height (cm)
Num. frames
Num. oranges
V01
No
LIM
Pera
2007
345
408
110
V02
Yes
LIM
Pera
2012
250
409
46
V03
Yes
DUA
Valencia
2005
490
634
90
V04
No
DUA
Valencia
2012
410
384
105
V05
No
PFE
Natal
2017
200
293
148
V06
Yes
BRO
Valencia
2009
400
447
122
V07
Yes
BRO
Valencia
2006
414
553
154
V08
Yes
DUA
Valencia
2013
320
544
192
V09
Yes
AVA
Hamlin
2019
183
222
16
V10
Yes
AVA
Hamlin
2019
183
244
13
V11
Yes
AVA
Hamlin
2008
380
268
87
V12
Yes
AVA
Hamlin
2008
380
307
115
Table 2: ORANDET, a dataset for orange detection. The set includes more than 220,000 bounding boxes annotated for
57,812 images (tiles).
Num. images
Num. bounding boxes
Training
20,662
89,318
Validation
3,434
11,198
Test
33,716
121,685
Total
57,812
222,201
The MORANGET [Santos et al., 2023] dataset is composed of 12 sequences, as shown in Table 1. Nine of them
were recorded by smartphones connected to a gimbal for stabilization (Zhiyun Smooth 4, Guilin Zhishen Information
Technology Co.). The set included trees of four orange varieties, Valencia, Natal, Pera, and Hamlin, presenting different
ages and heights, from four different regions in the São Paulo citrus belt. Although some mature fruits, most of
the oranges are green: the crop forecast program needs to perform the assessments at an early stage of the fruits’
development. Note that the MORANGET dataset is employed to evaluate multiple fruit tracking and the counting of
visible fruits in videos of single trees (single side), while the Orange Crop Forecast data is used for the evaluation of
yield prediction for the 1,543 trees set.
3.1.6
ORANDET dataset for fruit detection
Utilizing the camera’s pose information enables the annotation of an extensive array of bounding boxes within the
frames of videos in the MORANGET dataset. We have selected four sequences, V04, V05, V07 and V11 (Table 1) to
compose a training set for orange detection. Each frame underwent a process of extracting a set of tiles, each measuring
416 × 416 pixels, which were then incorporated into the training set. Given the relatively diminutive size of fruits
compared to frame dimensions, the application of tiling emerged as a straightforward yet efficacious strategy to mitigate
the risk of overlooking small objects. This process resulted in a compilation of 21,031 tiles extracted from these frame
sequences, with an additional 3,065 tiles incorporated from a previous study on orange detection [Camargo Neto et al.,
2019]. Subsequently, the dataset was partitioned into training and validation subsets. The eight remaining frame
sequences were exclusively designated for a test set, comprising 33,716 tiles. Table 2 outlines the definitive composition
of the orange detection dataset, denominated as ORANDET, with illustrative examples depicted in Figure 4.
Within the context of the pipeline illustrated in Figure 1, the ORANDET dataset [Santos et al., 2022] was instrumental
in both training and evaluating CNN-based fruit detection. Our orange tracker, depicted in Figure 1 (f) and expounded
upon in Section 3.2.2, does not use any learning-based component. Consequently, the MORANGET dataset was
exclusively employed to evaluate the tracking performance. Finally, the yield regression employs the Orange Crop
Forecast data and the fruit counting from tracking to train and evaluate the yield predictions, as seen in Figure 1 (g).
10

A pipeline for MOT with 3-D relocalization and NN-based yield regression in citrus
A PREPRINT
Figure 4: Examples in the ORANDET training set. Images present immature green fruits. Note the variety in light,
shadows, size, and blur.
3.2
Orange detection
We trained and evaluated six different architectures for orange detection: YOLOv3 [Redmon and Farhadi, 2018],
YOLOv6 [Li et al., 2022], YOLOv7 [Wang et al., 2022], EfficientDet [Tan et al., 2020], and the YOLOv5 and YOLOv8
models proposed by Ultralytics8. Nowadays, there are several neural network architectures for object detection,
based on CNNs [Arkin et al., 2023] and transformers [Shehzadi et al., 2023], and the selection of architectures is not
straightforward. Considering the extensive use of YOLO-based networks in fruit detection [Tian et al., 2019, Wang
et al., 2019], specially in citrus detection [Camargo Neto et al., 2019, Mirhaji et al., 2021, Xu et al., 2023], we have
selected YOLOv3, the last architecture proposed by Redmon and Farhadi [2018] (the authors that introduced YOLO),
8See https://docs.ultralytics.com/models.
11

A pipeline for MOT with 3-D relocalization and NN-based yield regression in citrus
A PREPRINT
and a few of recent YOLO-based approaches. To provide a comparative analysis, we have opted for EfficientDet as an
alternative approach.
We used the implementations available in MMYOLO9 and MMDetection [Chen et al., 2019]. All models were trained
using stochastic gradient descent (SGD) optimizer with momentum. Random flip augmentation was applied in the
training pipeline for all models, and the Mosaic augmentation, introduced after YOLOv3, was used during the training
of YOLOv5, YOLOv6, YOLOv7, and YOLOv8.
3.3
Multiple orange tracking
Our multiple fruit tracking method gets as input the bounding boxes set Bi from the orange detector and the projective
matrices Pi for each frame fi in the frame sequence F′
t (see Figure 1). The method is based on a few components,
described as follows.
3.3.1
Bounding box assignments
An essential component of the method is data association: bounding box assignment is performed between two box sets,
matching boxes in a set Bi to boxes in another set Bj. Such association is performed by a variant of the Hungarian
algorithm Kuhn [1955], using a cost function based on intersection over union (IoU):
cost(b(p)
i
, b(q)
j ) = 1 −IoU(b(p)
i
, b(q)
j ),
(2)
where b(p)
i
∈Bi, b(q)
j
∈Bj, and IoU is the Jaccard index defined over the intersection area and union area between
b(p)
i
and b(q)
j :
IoU(b(p)
i
, b(q)
j ) = J(b(p)
i
, b(q)
j ) =
|b(p)
i
∩b(q)
j |
|b(p)
i
∪b(q)
j |
.
(3)
Considering P bounding boxes in Bi and Q boxes in Bj, the assignment matrix A is a P × Q matrix where A[p, q] = 1
iff b(p)
i
and b(q)
j
are associated, otherwise A[p, q] = 0. Assume, without loss of generality, that P ≤Q. The association
problem is a 2-D rectangular assignment minimization problem [Crouse, 2016]:
A∗= arg min
A
P
X
p=1
Q
X
q=1
cost(b(p)
i
, b(q)
j )A[p, q],
(4)
subject to:
Q
X
q=1
A[p, q] = 1, ∀p
(5)
P
X
p=1
A[p, q] ≤1, ∀q.
(6)
Note that b(p)
i
refers to the p-th bounding box in Bi and b(q)
j
refers to the q-th bounding box in Bj. For this minimization,
we have employed a modified Jonker-Volgenant algorithm with no initialization [Crouse, 2016], a O(n3) variant of
the Hungarian algorithm. This implementation supports unbalanced assignments, so working in cases where P̸ = Q:
boxes in i not assigned (lost boxes) or boxes in j not assigned (novel boxes). As a post-processing step, we remove
assignments where IoU(b(p)
i
, b(q)
j ) = 0 eventually produced by the minimization algorithm. The assignment component
is repeatedly employed in this work:
• to perform data association between box sets Bi and Bi+1, corresponding to detected fruits in two neighboring
frames fi and fi+1;
• to perform relocalization, associating reprojected bounding boxes of previously seen oranges to boxes in Bi,
detected in the current frame fi, and
• to evaluate results, matching detected boxes to the ground-truth annotation set ˆBi for frame fi.
9https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmyolo
12

A pipeline for MOT with 3-D relocalization and NN-based yield regression in citrus
A PREPRINT
3.3.2
Orange 3-D localization
The association procedure, when applied to bounding boxes sets from neighboring frames fi and fi+1, produces
contiguous tracks in the form T = ⟨bi, bi+1, ..., bi+n⟩(here the upper script indexes are omitted to simplify the
notation). When a contiguous track is sufficiently long (we have adopted n ≥5), we employ the camera matrices
Pi, Pi+1, ..., Pi+n to estimate the three-dimensional position of the corresponding orange. Algorithm 1 takes as input a
track T and the corresponding sequence of camera matrices P to estimate the center of the orange in the 3-D space, X.
The algorithm is based on two concepts: reprojection error and random sample consensus. The reprojection error is the
distance between the bounding box center ci (line 4) and xi, the reprojection of X on the i-th frame (Equation 1). A
bounding box is considered an inlier iff this distance is within a threshold, the maximum reprojection error allowed
(lines 15–16). The RANdom SAmple Consensus (RANSAC) is a general framework for robust estimation algorithms
proposed by Fischler and Bolles [1981]: (i) a sample S is randomly selected to estimate the target; (ii) the points in the
full set within a distance threshold are defined as inliers (consensus); (iii) the target is re-estimated using all inliers, and
(iv) the process is iterated if the number of inliers is insufficient. In Algorithm 1, our sample S is a combination of three
bounding boxes in the track (line 6) and a target XS is estimated using the direct linear triangulation procedure (DLT)
[Hartley and Zisserman, 2004] (line 7). The reprojection is employed to define the set of inliers (lines 12–19) and, if the
number of inliers is sufficient (line 20), X is estimated from the consensus set, again using DLT. However, considering
consensus could not be achieved and the number of combinations of three boxes (line 6) can be massive, a maximum
number of iterations is defined (lines 24–27). If the maximum number of iterations is reached or if all samples were
considered with no consensus, the algorithm returns X as NIL and an empty inliers set (no success). In Algorithm 1,
INDEXES(·) returns the frame indexes i for the bounding boxes bi in the set (in a valid track, there is only one bounding
box per frame).
Algorithm 1 RANSAC-based triangulation
1: procedure RANSACTRIANGULATION(T , P)
2:
n_iters ←1
3:
for all bi ∈T do
4:
ci ←

bi.x+bi.width
2
, bi.y+bi.height
2
⊺
▷Bounding box centroid
5:
end for
6:
for all S ←COMBINATIONS(T , 3) do
▷RANSAC loop
7:
XS ←DLTTRIANGULATION((bj, Pj), j ∈INDEXES(S))
▷Direct Linear Transformation (DLT)
8:
if XS is NIL then
9:
continue
10:
end if
11:
I ←∅
12:
for all j ∈INDEXES(T ) do
13:
xj ←Pj · XS
▷Homogeneous form: xj = (x, y, z)⊺
14:
xj ←(x/z, y/z)⊺
15:
geom_error ←∥xj −cj∥
▷Reprojection error
16:
if geom_error ≤max_geom_error then
17:
I ←I ∪{bj}
18:
end if
19:
end for
20:
if |I|
|T | ≥inliers_ratio then
21:
X ←DLTTRIANGULATION((bj, Pj), j ∈INDEXES(I))
▷Re-estimate X using all inliers
22:
return X, I
23:
end if
24:
n_iters ←n_iters + 1
25:
if n_iters > max_iters then
▷Exceeds the maximum number of iterations allowed
26:
return NIL, ∅
27:
end if
28:
end for
29:
return NIL, ∅
▷It could not find an acceptable estimation
30: end procedure
Algorithm 2 models the orange as a sphere and estimates the fruit’s center X and ray r3D. The three-dimensional point
X and the inliers bounding boxes set I are computed using Algorithm 1. Then the ray is estimated using the dimensions
13

A pipeline for MOT with 3-D relocalization and NN-based yield regression in citrus
A PREPRINT
of the boxes in I and similar triangles’ ratio:
r3D ≈
rid
ffocal
(7)
where d is the distance between the camera center position Ci at frame fi and the orange center X (line 10), ffocal is
the camera focal distance, and ri the 2-D ray estimated from the bounding box bi dimensions (line 8). Each ri provides
an estimation for r3D (line 11), and we use the median of the estimations set R as our final estimation for the orange
three-dimensional ray. We have noted that the bounding boxes usually exceed the fruit boundaries10, overestimating the
ray, then we multiply the median by a constant c for a better fit (line 13, we have adopted c = 0.9). The camera center
Ci is easily computed from Pi (line 9) using:
Ci = −M−1p4,
(8)
where Pi = [M | p4], i.e., the M matrix is composed by the three first columns of Pi and p4 is the last column of Pi.
Algorithm 2 Estimate orange’s position and ray in 3-D
1: procedure ESTIMATEORANGE(T , P)
2:
X, I ←RANSACTRIANGULATION(T , P)
▷I is the set of inliers
3:
if X is NIL
4:
return NIL, NIL
5:
end if
6:
R ←∅
7:
for all bi ∈I do then
8:
ri ←max(bi.height, bi.width)/2
▷Estimate 2-D ray from bounding box dimensions
9:
Ci ←GETCAMERACENTER(Pi)
▷Camera projection center
10:
d ←∥X −Ci∥
▷Orange to camera distance
11:
R ←R ∪
n
d·ri
ffocal
o
12:
end for
13:
r3D ←c · median(R)
14:
return X, r3D
15: end procedure
In our MOT tracking for oranges, tracks can be discontinuous, meaning that the fruit is not visible at some frames
because it is occluded or out of view. Note that Algorithm 1 and Algorithm 2 have no need for continuous tracks:
they can operate on discontinuous ones as new bounding boxes are added to the tracks. Tracks can present one of two
possible states in our tracking system: LOST, if the track has no bounding box in the current frame fi, and ACTIVE, if the
track presents an observed box bi. When processing the current frame fi, our system starts performing relocalization,
using the Hungarian association to match LOST tracks to bounding boxes in Bi yet not associated to any track.
3.3.3
Relocalization
The LOST tracks have their fruits’ position and ray estimated by Algorithm 2: a center X and a ray r3D are available
for each track. Using Equation 1, we find the reprojection of the orange’s center ˜xi = PiX at frame fi. The ray r3D
and Equation 8 are employed to find the ray ˜ri for the orange on fi. Finally, the reprojected bounding box is defined as:
˜bi = [˜xi −˜ri, ˜yi −˜ri, 2˜ri, 2˜ri].
where ˜xi = (˜xi, ˜yi, 1)⊺(homogenous coordinates) and ˜bi is the reprojected bounding box for the track in frame fi (the
˜· notation is used to indicate the values came from the orange estimation, not from orange detection). Such boxes are
computed for all LOST tracks, producing a set of boxes ˜Bi. The Hungarian association (Equation 4) is employed to
match boxes from LOST tracks in ˜Bi to boxes in Bi yet not matched to any track. In the case of a track is successfully
associated to a box, its state is changed to ACTIVE .
3.3.4
Next frame association
After relocalization, the tracking system will employ the Hungarian association to match boxes b(p)
i
∈Bi to boxes
b(q)
i+1 ∈Bi+1. If the association algorithm matches b(p)
i
→b(q)
i+1, and b(p)
i
belongs to an ACTIVE track T , the box
10Note also Equation 7 is an approximation: even in the absence of noise, the equality would just hold if the sphere center was
perfectly projected in the image’s principal point [Hartley and Zisserman, 2004].
14

A pipeline for MOT with 3-D relocalization and NN-based yield regression in citrus
A PREPRINT
b(q)
i+1 is appended to T . Otherwise, a novel track T ′ = ⟨b(p)
i
, b(q)
i+1⟩is created. After association, tracks not matched
to any box b(q)
i+1 change to the LOST state, while all the remaining ACTIVE tracks presenting more than 5 bounding
boxes have their oranges re-estimated using Algorithm 2. The entire procedure (relocalization followed by next frame
association) is repeated for each frame until fM−1.
In summary, contiguous ACTIVE tracks presenting at least 5 boxes initialize 3-D spherical models for oranges,
parameterized by central point and ray. After this initialization, the fruit is passive of relocalization: if the bounding
boxes’ association fails by any reason, producing LOST tracks, the reprojection of the spherical model on the current
frame can be employed to relocalize the fruit, associating the reprojected box to a detected one. After relocalization,
the track is ACTIVE again and can be updated with new detected boxes. Such track is now discontinuous, registering
where (bounding box) and when (frame) the fruit is visible. Furthermore, the orange model (central point and ray) is
continuously refined as new detections are added to the track. Only the tracks with successfully estimated 3-D orange
models are considered for fruit counting.
3.3.5
Implementation
The tracker was implemented in Python 3. The 2-D rectangular assignment implementation employed is from SciPy’s
optimization module [Crouse, 2016]. The DLT algorithm was implemented using singular value decomposition [Golub
and van Loan, 2013] available in SciPy’s linear algebra module.
3.3.6
Tracking evaluation
Villacrés et al. [2023] presented a sensitivity analysis aimed to evaluate the performance of a fruit tracker under varying
probabilities of fruit detection. The analysis begins with perfect detection, from the ground-truth data, where all fruits
are identified accurately, and then progressively eliminates certain bounding boxes. Each bounding box in the ground
truth is treated as a random variable with a uniform distribution within the range [0, 1] for each bounding box in fi.
Based on the value, each bounding box is kept or removed from the detections set Bi. Specifically, if the random value
of a fruit is below or equal to a pre-defined threshold, it is considered detected; otherwise, it is discarded. Similarly to
Villacrés et al., in the present work we evaluated different values of the probability of detection, using 0.4, 0.6, 0.8,
and 1 as thresholds (a threshold of 1 equals to “perfect detection”, a copy of ground-truth bounding box data). The
tracker is also evaluated using the detections from the CNN-based orange detection module presented in Section 3.2.
The evaluation present values for HOTA [Luiten et al., 2021] and MOTA [Bernardin and Stiefelhagen, 2008]. We also
include in the evaluation two components of HOTA: DetA, the percentage of aligning detections, and AssA, the average
alignment between matched trajectories. Appendix A presents mathematical definitions for HOTA, DetA and AssA,
adapting the original Luiten et al. [2021] formulation to the notation adopted in this work.
3.4
Yield regressor
After the fruit detection and tracking stages, we have all the fruits in a tree identified and mapped in 3-D. However,
some fruits may have not been identified or tracked due to problems in video acquisition or because they are located
inside the canopy. To address this problem, we propose a regressor that takes the number of fruits on each side of
the plant as input and estimates the actual number of fruits on that plant. This estimator can be based on statistics, as
proposed in [Koirala et al., 2019a], in which the authors consider statistical differences in each orchard to propose a
correction factor. Alternatively, it can be implemented as a machine learning model. In our case, we use a machine
learning model that learns an implicit representation accounting for the impact of other variables, such as variety, group
of variety, dimensions of the plant, region, and sector, to propose an estimated number of fruits.
3.4.1
Data used for regression
Although we received raw data for 1,543 trees, only 1,197 trees could be successfully processed in the previous stages
of the pipeline. Trees with ill-recorded videos fail in the SfM part of the pipeline, and do not follow through the tracking
and the yield detection steps. Table 3 shows the first four lines of a regression data table. Tracking generated the last
two columns, CbyT-A and CbyT-B (counting by tracking), which correspond respectively to the fruits automatically
counted on sides A and B of the tree. These counting columns can change according to the tracker employed, for
example, a tracking using YOLOv3-based detections or counting results from a YOLOv5-based one. Such counting
values were aggregated to the original data to enrich the information provided to the regressor. However, not all 1,197
records could be used for training the regressor, as we had to exclude plants presenting missing data and those without
fruit counting from tracking for either side.
15

A pipeline for MOT with 3-D relocalization and NN-based yield regression in citrus
A PREPRINT
Table 3: Sample containing the first four lines of the dataset used for training and testing of the regressor. ID corresponds
to the plant identifier; Sector and Region are references for geographical location; VarG and Var refer to the variety
group and variety of the plant, respectively; AG is a classification for the age of the plant; F1, F2, F3 and F4 are
the number of fruits manually counted in sizes corresponding to the first to the fourth flowering; H, W and D are
the dimensions of the plant; CbyT-A and CbyT-B are the number of visible fruits automatically counted using the
vision-based pipeline for both sides of the plant.
ID
Sector
Region
VarG
Var.
AG
F1
F2
F3
F4
H
W
D
CbyT-A
CbyT-B
103
North
LIM
VT
Val.
1
0
5
26
1
280
280
300
15
1031
South
LIM
NT
Nat.
3
0
5
54
10
290
360
295
19
106
North
DUA
PRME
Pera
2
0
0
58
36
340
300
335
10
10
104
North
DUA
PRME
Pera
3
400
0
11
0
310
460
495
32
3.4.2
Data preprocessing
Before submitting data to the model, it is necessary to perform some operations to adequate these data to the dynamics
of the processing of the artificial neural network. The following operations were executed over the dataset:
Transformation of categorical variables: neural networks only accept numerical values as inputs to their neurons,
which means that categorical variables must be transformed into numerical values. For example, the value
Hamlin, which is one of the possible values for the variable VARIETY, has to be converted to a number. One
of the possible methods is using One Hot Bit Encoding [Géron, 2019], which creates a new column for each
possible value of the variable. The column Hamlin, for instance, receives value 1 for whenever a sample is
classified with that variety. This procedure is executed for all categorical variables.
Standardization of numerical values: to facilitate convergence to the optimal training point, numerical values should
be standardized. Variables with very discrepant scales, such as one ranging from [0–100,000] and another
from [-1.0–1.0], can cause problems because the gradients calculated during back propagation will have very
different effects when applied to different values. One solution for this problem is to apply standardization
using the formula ui = (vi −v)/σv, where vector ui contains the standardized values of vi, v is the mean
value of the vectors vi and σv its standard deviation.
3.4.3
Machine learning regression model
We have tried several machine learning algorithms for the regression problem, such as Support Vector Machines [Cortes
and Vapnik, 1995], Bagging [Breiman, 1996] and Gradient Boosting [Friedman, 2001]. None of them, however, had a
better performance than a multilayer feed-forward neural network [Goodfellow et al., 2017].
Neural networks are highly flexible in their assembly. For instance, one can create a neural network with just a single
layer, and it still is able to solve a problem. However, tasks such as image classification usually requires dozens
or even hundreds of layers. This flexibility is also a weakness, as it necessitates searching through a wide range of
configurations to find the most suitable one for a specific problem [Géron, 2019]. A common heuristic approach is to
gradually increase the number of layers and neurons and evaluate how the results converge towards the desired outcome.
Once the parameter range with the best results is identified, it can be further refined. In the case of the yield regressor,
the neural network should not be excessively complex due to the amount of data available. If a neural network has too
many parameters, it may suffer from overfitting, where it learns details in the training dataset and performs poorly with
the test data as compared to its training performance.
In our path to find the best network configuration, we relied on cross validation, a widely used technique in machine
learning, to statistically assess whether one computational experiment performs better than another [Kohavi, 1995].
Cross validation involves running the same algorithm multiple times, allowing for more reliable performance statistics
and a certain level of confidence. In our research, we divided the training dataset into ten parts, also known as folds.
The process entails training the algorithm on nine folds while reserving the tenth fold for evaluation. This process
repeats until all ten folds have been used as the test set. To determine the level of certainty regarding the superiority of a
model, we employed a statistical hypothesis test. Since we had ten folds, the assumption that the data follow a normal
distribution does not hold true. The normal distribution is typically reserved for datasets larger than 30 elements with
known variance [King and Zisserman, 2019]. Instead, we used the t-Student distribution for our set of ten performance
measurements. We set a p-value of 0.05 to ensure that we select a model with 95% confidence.
16

A pipeline for MOT with 3-D relocalization and NN-based yield regression in citrus
A PREPRINT
Table 4: Feed-forward neural network architecture employed on yield regression. B corresponds to the batch size, i.e.,
the number of data entries.
Layer (type)
Output Shape
Num. Params
dense_1 (Dense)
(B, 7)
294
batch_normalization_1
(B, 7)
28
dense_2 (Dense)
(B, 7)
56
dense_3 (Dense)
(B, 1)
8
Total params: 386
Trainable params: 372
Non-trainable params: 14
We conducted experiments with neural networks comprising one to six layers, and varying the number of neurons
per layer from seven to 28. The last layer of the regressor consists of a single neuron, which is responsible for the
calculation of the yield estimation. Among the tested architectures, the one presented in Table 4 demonstrated the best
results, as will be discussed in the next section. The model was implemented in Python, using the Keras API11, which is
built on top of the TensorFlow™platform.
4
Results
4.1
Tracking sensitivity to detection
In the sensitivity analysis, tracking is performed by the algorithms presented in Section 3.3, with no component based
on machine learning: all boxes come from the ground-truth, with random removal of some boxes to emulate detection
components presenting different detection rates. Table 5 shows HOTA, DetA12 and AssA results for four different rates.
The table also displays the MOTA metric for comparison, considering that a few works [de Jong et al., 2022, Villacrés
et al., 2023] employed that metric. The CbyT (counting by tracking) value is the fruit counting, corresponding exactly
to the number of (possibly discontinuous) tracks found by our MOT system, while CbyT-GT is the ground-truth value.
The last column displays the relative error: the ratio of absolute error to the ground-truth value.
Perfect fruit detection does not imply in perfect tracking and counting: association errors, as seen in Figure 13, induced
by occlusions, cause tracking errors. However, the tracking performance in high (HOTA and MOTA above 0.9),
resulting in accurate counting: 2.34% relative error in counting of visible fruits for a 100% detection rate (considering
individual trees, the median for the relative error is 1.23%). But accurate counting can be reached even under imperfect
detections: an 80% detection rate could reach a 3.01% relative error (median 2.20%). As expected, low detection rates
will severely damage counting: a 60% detection rate implied in a 14.44% error in counting (median 12.35%), while a
40% rate reached an error of 55.93% (median 55.77%).
Figure 5 shows tracking examples for two videos, V07 and V12. The tracking was performed assuming an 80%
detection rate. When the orange position and ray were estimated by Algorithm 2, the numeric ID for the track (fruit)
is displayed. Tracks not yet presenting a successful estimation are marked with a NIL label, otherwise. LOST tracks
are displayed as white, dashed boxes. Note as, at each frame, there is a significant number of LOST tracks, but the
system keeps projecting them on each frame at their expected locations. A relocalization example can be seen for
track 94 in V07: the track is lost at frames f260 and f265 because of occlusion, but the track became ACTIVE at f270.
Examples of new tracks creation and orange estimation can be seen for fruits 95, 96 and 97, again in video V07. The
three-dimensional positions estimated for each orange in V07 are shown in Figure 6.
The importance of relocalization is highlighted in Table 6, which presents sensitivity results for both 100% and 80%
detection rates, but without incorporating relocalization. In the case of multiple orange tracking, effectively managing
occlusions or re-entering fruits is crucial. Without proper handling of these scenarios, the generated counting becomes
unstable and unusable, as observed in the relative error column. A comparison between the results in Table 5 and Table 6
emphasizes the necessity of long-term tracking for accurate counting. Even a more advanced tracker that incorporates
motion estimation would struggle to handle occlusions and re-entering objects without a dedicated long-term association
component [Bewley et al., 2016].
11https://keras.io/about.
12Note that, for 100% detection rate, to see DetA values below 1.0 sounds counterintuitive: readers should consider that the
assignments between detections and ground-truth are defined by the association matrices ˆA(α) that maximize HOTA [Luiten et al.,
2021], so association errors could produce some false positives and false negatives in Equation 20, see Appendix A.
17

A pipeline for MOT with 3-D relocalization and NN-based yield regression in citrus
A PREPRINT
Table 5: Sensitivity analysis. The table shows how tracking (and fruit counting) degrades with detection performance.
Detection (%)
Sequence
HOTA
DetA
AssA
MOTA
CbyT
CbyT-GT
Relative error (%)
Median
100%
V01
0.90691
0.90390
0.91079
0.96139
103
110
6.36%
1.23%
V02
0.90277
0.90130
0.90683
0.97152
45
46
2.17%
V03
0.94512
0.94140
0.94907
0.97387
89
90
1.11%
V04
0.94159
0.94022
0.94306
0.98173
104
105
0.95%
V05
0.92378
0.93034
0.91765
0.95370
146
148
1.35%
V06
0.92984
0.92576
0.93423
0.97897
121
122
0.82%
V07
0.93595
0.92823
0.94428
0.97714
149
154
3.25%
V08
0.95137
0.94812
0.95515
0.99380
190
192
1.04%
V09
0.78204
0.62303
0.98163
0.63495
10
16
37.50%
V10
0.96471
0.96313
0.96640
0.99781
13
13
0.00%
V11
0.92858
0.90792
0.95016
0.95871
85
87
2.30%
V12
0.94809
0.94741
0.94898
0.99573
115
115
0.00%
All
0.93516
0.92761
0.94361
0.97308
1170
1198
2.34%
80%
V01
0.68845
0.68009
0.69767
0.71980
101
110
8.18%
2.20%
V02
0.69783
0.69759
0.70022
0.74322
47
46
2.17%
V03
0.72111
0.72464
0.71773
0.73939
88
90
2.22%
V04
0.72459
0.72899
0.72030
0.75362
104
105
0.95%
V05
0.67268
0.70495
0.64206
0.70454
147
148
0.68%
V06
0.72021
0.71768
0.72294
0.75514
119
122
2.46%
V07
0.71791
0.71040
0.72589
0.74529
144
154
6.49%
V08
0.72352
0.72368
0.72372
0.74971
189
192
1.56%
V09
0.63278
0.56457
0.70923
0.57254
12
16
25.00%
V10
0.76247
0.75657
0.76851
0.78134
13
13
0.00%
V11
0.69139
0.67515
0.70832
0.71356
82
87
5.75%
V12
0.72052
0.72119
0.72001
0.75194
116
115
0.87%
All
0.71210
0.71085
0.71386
0.73859
1162
1198
3.01%
60%
V01
0.42052
0.37871
0.46725
0.39628
77
110
30.00%
12.35%
V02
0.43747
0.42167
0.45582
0.44970
36
46
21.74%
V03
0.45983
0.46422
0.45555
0.46182
81
90
10.00%
V04
0.48905
0.49809
0.48025
0.49698
100
105
4.76%
V05
0.41860
0.43778
0.40030
0.41636
116
148
21.62%
V06
0.46982
0.45067
0.48991
0.46902
113
122
7.38%
V07
0.48637
0.47560
0.49763
0.49048
132
154
14.29%
V08
0.48001
0.47564
0.48464
0.48208
172
192
10.42%
V09
0.42851
0.38464
0.47741
0.38014
11
16
31.25%
V10
0.46489
0.48524
0.44543
0.47886
12
13
7.69%
V11
0.44513
0.41282
0.48018
0.42409
67
87
22.99%
V12
0.47738
0.47390
0.48098
0.48000
108
115
6.09%
All
0.46614
0.45801
0.47467
0.46427
1025
1198
14.44%
40%
V01
0.16977
0.10001
0.28839
0.10474
30
110
72.73%
55.77%
V02
0.16722
0.10682
0.26188
0.11438
15
46
67.39%
V03
0.19442
0.14486
0.26096
0.14433
42
90
53.33%
V04
0.20442
0.17707
0.23600
0.17250
56
105
46.67%
V05
0.16615
0.13389
0.20618
0.12626
57
148
61.49%
V06
0.19135
0.13771
0.26587
0.14189
51
122
58.20%
V07
0.21561
0.17215
0.27009
0.17652
75
154
51.30%
V08
0.21683
0.17808
0.26408
0.17686
101
192
47.40%
V09
0.18710
0.10897
0.32127
0.11076
4
16
75.00%
V10
0.25155
0.22578
0.28028
0.21137
8
13
38.46%
V11
0.18189
0.12892
0.25676
0.13379
32
87
63.22%
V12
0.19288
0.14647
0.25407
0.15039
57
115
50.43%
All
0.19832
0.15263
0.25773
0.15328
528
1198
55.93%
18

A pipeline for MOT with 3-D relocalization and NN-based yield regression in citrus
A PREPRINT
(a) V07, f260
(b) V07, f265
(c) V07, f270
(d) V07, f275
(e) V07, f280
(f) V07, f260 (detail)
(g) V07, f265 (detail)
(h) V07, f270 (detail)
(i) V07, f275 (detail)
(j) V07, f280 (detail)
(k) V12, f140
(l) V12, f145
(m) V12, f150
(n) V12, f155
(o) V12, f160
Figure 5: Tracking results for inputs presenting 80% fruit detection ratio. Tracks whose oranges’ 3-D models were
estimated present numerics IDs. New tracks whose oranges were not yet estimated successfully presents the marker
NIL. Tracks marked by dashed white lines are LOST tracks. (a-j) Frames from V07 (Valencia). (k-o) Frames from V12
(Hamlin). Best seen in digital format.
19

A pipeline for MOT with 3-D relocalization and NN-based yield regression in citrus
A PREPRINT
X
−10
−5
0
5
10
10.0
−7.5
−5.0
2.5
0.0
.5
.0
Z
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
X
−10
−5
0
5
10
−1
−7
−
−
0
2
5
Z
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
Oranges
Camera path
X
−10
−5
0
5
10
−10.0
−7.5
−5.0
−2.5
0.0
2.5
5.0
Z
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
X
−10
−5
0
5
10
Y
−10.0
−7.5
−5.0
−2.5
0.0
2.5
5.0
Z
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
Figure 6: Estimations for oranges’ 3-D localizations in V07. MOT was performed using an 80% detection rate. Scale is
arbitrary (SfM without metric scale calibration). The camera path is shown in red. The 145 found oranges are shown as
circles, the color scale representing the distance in the Z axis (depth). The four plots show different angles of the same
structure.
20

A pipeline for MOT with 3-D relocalization and NN-based yield regression in citrus
A PREPRINT
Table 6: Sensitivity analysis without relocalization. The table shows how tracking (and fruit counting) degrades with
detection performance if the tracker does not incorporate relocalization.
Detection (%)
Sequence
HOTA
DetA
AssA
MOTA
CbyT
CbyT-GT
Relative error (%)
100%
V01
0.34960
0.44284
0.27629
0.44890
244
110
121.82%
57.40%
V02
0.43208
0.54064
0.34543
0.55949
139
46
202.17%
V03
0.48072
0.50524
0.45741
0.51485
150
90
66.67%
V04
0.40903
0.42646
0.39232
0.43890
169
105
60.95%
V05
0.35899
0.55269
0.23319
0.52738
581
148
292.57%
V06
0.46115
0.45874
0.46365
0.47716
183
122
50.00%
V07
0.40752
0.40948
0.40565
0.42184
276
154
79.22%
V08
0.45201
0.44898
0.45514
0.46420
289
192
50.52%
V09
0.42806
0.31271
0.58611
0.31669
14
16
12.50%
V10
0.40208
0.42290
0.38235
0.43222
20
13
53.85%
V11
0.48725
0.44734
0.53124
0.46841
101
87
16.09%
V12
0.48120
0.50184
0.46146
0.51958
171
115
48.70%
All
0.43426
0.46100
0.40914
0.47157
2337
1198
95.08%
80%
V01
0.17219
0.24220
0.12258
0.23293
272
110
147.27%
238.31%
V02
0.16378
0.29666
0.09050
0.28548
176
46
282.61%
V03
0.13913
0.24712
0.07838
0.22648
328
90
264.44%
V04
0.13699
0.25693
0.07307
0.23968
436
105
315.24%
V05
0.17829
0.33577
0.09468
0.29965
575
148
288.51%
V06
0.15788
0.24045
0.10378
0.23092
368
122
201.64%
V07
0.13617
0.25015
0.07417
0.23541
609
154
295.45%
V08
0.13391
0.24435
0.07344
0.22780
766
192
298.96%
V09
0.12673
0.15943
0.10075
0.14665
37
16
131.25%
V10
0.14627
0.22291
0.09606
0.21137
36
13
176.92%
V11
0.16579
0.23478
0.11728
0.22643
214
87
145.98%
V12
0.15895
0.25511
0.09913
0.24286
359
115
212.17%
All
0.15013
0.25560
0.08826
0.23942
4176
1198
248.58%
4.2
Detection, tracking and counting
Table 7 shows the detection results for seven different orange models. The YOLOv5, YOLOv6, YOLOv7, and YOLOv8
networks can use different backbone sizes. We have tested the small and large versions of these networks, the latter
producing the best results, so only the large (l) models are shown. Two different backbone sizes are also tested for
EfficientDet: the B0 (baseline) and B3 backbones [Tan et al., 2020]. The results in Table 7 consider a minimum score
of 0.5 for the orange class and an IoU of 0.5 between predicted boxes and ground-truth. The values are not an average
over images in the test set: they were computed considering the entire set of 121,685 bounding boxes (oranges) in the
ORANDET test set, being an assessment of all fruit misses and false positives.
As shown in Table 7, YOLOv5l, YOLOv8l and YOLOv7 presented close results considering the F1-score, followed by
YOLOv3. However, there is a slight difference in their behavior: the YOLOv3 and YOLOv8l networks present better
precision, a lower number of false positives, while the YOLOv5l and YOLOv7l models show better recall, missing
fewer fruits. Note that the sensitivity test presented in Section 4.1 does not consider any level of false positives in the
detections, neither any misalignment between boxes in the ground-truth and in the predictions. The different false
positive rates of the detection models and their localization accuracy can affect the tracking.
Table 7: Detection results considering a ground-truth composed by 121,685 bounding boxes in ORANDET test set. The
displayed results correspond to a score threshold of 0.5 (orange class) and a minimum IoU of 0.5 between detection and
ground-truth. TP, FP, and FN correspond to true positives, false positives and false negatives, respectively.
Detections
TP (%)
FP (%)
FN (%)
Precision
Recall
F1-score
YOLOv5l
109,919
69.27
21.06
30.73
0.77
0.69
0.73
YOLOv8l
96,245
64.72
14.37
35.28
0.82
0.65
0.72
YOLOv7l
101,914
66.14
17.61
33.86
0.79
0.66
0.72
YOLOv3
80,092
57.68
8.14
42.32
0.88
0.58
0.70
YOLOv6l
85,997
57.50
13.17
42.50
0.81
0.58
0.67
EfficientDet B3
79,129
55.42
9.61
44.58
0.85
0.55
0.67
EfficientDet B0
70,760
50.66
7.49
49.34
0.87
0.51
0.64
Table 8 shows tracking results for different orange detection models. For each frame, tilling with overlap is employed:
the frame is split into 24 tiles with 416 × 416 pixels, presenting overlaps of 82 pixels. The tiles are stacked in a single
21

A pipeline for MOT with 3-D relocalization and NN-based yield regression in citrus
A PREPRINT
batch, and submitted to the fruit detection CNN. The detection results are merged (“untilling") and non-maximum
suppression (NMS) applied (we have adopted 0.2 as IoU threshold for NMS). We have also filtered detections by score,
testing three different score thresholds (0.5, 0.6 and 0.7). Table 8 displays the five best tracking results, considering
the score threshold that produced the best result for such detection model. The results for each frame sequence in
MORANGET for the two best models (YOLOv5l and YOLOv3) are shown in Table 9. It is noteworthy that when the
tracking results are integrated, i.e., when the 1,198 fruits/tracks are considered, the counting error rates are low.
Table 8: Tracking results, considering the ground-truth in MORANGET. The relative error is computed for the entire set
of tracks in the 12 frame sequences, summing 1,198 tracks. The value in the last column (Median) is computed by
evaluating the relative error for each video and getting the median (see Table 9).
HOTA
DetA
AssA
MOTA
CbyT
Relative error (%)
Median
YOLOv5l (score > 0.7)
0.56039
0.48968
0.64591
0.58540
1,183
1.25%
6.95%
YOLOv3 (score > 0.5)
0.51003
0.43885
0.59608
0.54786
1,153
3.76%
8.45%
YOLOv8l (score > 0.6)
0.54216
0.46512
0.63690
0.56415
1,128
5.84%
9.40%
YOLOv7l (score > 0.6)
0.52306
0.45016
0.61086
0.53131
1,140
4.84%
10.24%
EfficientDet B3 (score > 0.5)
0.55564
0.47085
0.66561
0.56775
1,086
9.34%
11.82%
Figure 7 shows tracking examples for two videos, V07 and V12, the same previously seen in Figure 5 for comparison.
The tracking was performed using detections from the YOLOv5l model. Again, when the orange position and ray were
estimated by Algorithm 2, the numeric ID for the track (fruit) is displayed, and tracks not yet presenting a successful
estimation are marked with a NIL label. LOST tracks are displayed as white, dashed boxes. A relocalization example
can be seen for track 111 in V07: the track is lost at frames f260 and f265, but the track became ACTIVE at f270. A
compilation of the results in a video demonstration is available on-line13.
Perfect tracking implies exact counting and a HOTA value equal to 1. As seen in Table 5, high HOTA (or MOTA)
values are associated with low errors in counting. However, we can observe low errors in counting even for mediocre
values of HOTA (or MOTA), around 0.5, as seen in Table 8. Actually, multiple fruit tracking is a harder problem
than fruit counting assessment. If the pipeline can track the fruit in part of its trajectory and does not merge tracks of
different fruits, it can reach accurate counting values. But losing parts of the fruit’ trajectories will severely penalize the
tracking quality measures. If the tracker is losing part of the trajectories, it is missing the orange appearances in some
frames. Figure 8 shows histograms for four frame sequences in MORANGET, considering the number of appearances
for each fruit in the ground-truth (orange colored histogram) and in the tracker results (blue colored histogram). More
“mass” in bins on the right side means the fruits are observed non-occluded in more frames. Comparing the ground-truth
against the tracking results (using YOLOv5l detection in this example), we can see that our pipeline missed parts of
the tracks, even considering accurate counting: the relative counting errors are 0.91%, 3.81%, 3.65% and 0.87% for
V01, V04, V08 and V12, respectively, but the missed appearances will degrade HOTA and MOTA values. Our pipeline
can keep fruits in the LOST state, passive of relocalization, so the oranges, even missed in some frames, are properly
accounted. Figure 9 shows an example where motion blur jeopardized detection: the fruits are kept in the LOST state,
but HOTA and MOTA values decrease because ground-truth consider them visible oranges (note as part fruits are
properly relocalized in the next frame).
4.3
Yield regressor results
The sample analyzed consisted of the 1,197 plants that resulted from the previous steps of the pipeline. However, some
plants had to be excluded due to missing plant dimensions (W, H or D in Table 3) or lack of automatic fruit counting,
resulting in a reduced set of 1,139 plants. The regressor was specifically designed to estimate the sum of fruits from the
first to the third flowering, namely F1 + F2 + F3, as the fruits from the fourth flowering are too small to be detected
in the previous stages of the pipeline.
Consider the counting from our tracking system fed by YOLOv3 orange detections. Out of the 1,139 fruits, 911 were
used for training of the neural network regressor, and the remaining 228 for testing were reserved for testing. The
results are presented in Figure 10, where we can observe a significant dispersion of points in the graph. This dispersion
affected the overall performance, resulting in a R2 value of 0.61. Notably, there is an isolated point in the lower part of
the graph where the regressor estimated around 50 fruits, while the ground truth falls within the range of 1,250 to 1,500.
Conversely, there are two isolated points at the top of the graph where the regressor overestimated the values. For these
points, the regressor estimated values between 1,500 and 1,750, while the actual values are around 700 for the left point
and around 1,200 for the right point.
13https://youtu.be/hOq42KMskLQ
22

A pipeline for MOT with 3-D relocalization and NN-based yield regression in citrus
A PREPRINT
(a) V07, f260
(b) V07, f265
(c) V07, f270
(d) V07, f275
(e) V07, f280
(f) V07, f260 (detail)
(g) V07, f265 (detail)
(h) V07, f270 (detail)
(i) V07, f275 (detail)
(j) V07, f280 (detail)
(k) V12, f140
(l) V12, f145
(m) V12, f150
(n) V12, f155
(o) V12, f160
Figure 7: Tracking results for detection inputs from YOLOv5l. Tracks whose oranges’ 3-D models were estimated
present numerics IDs. New tracks whose oranges were not yet estimated successfully presents the marker NIL. Tracks
marked by dashed white lines are LOST tracks. (a-j) Frames from V07 (Valencia). (k-o) Frames from V12 (Hamlin).
Best seen in digital format.
23

A pipeline for MOT with 3-D relocalization and NN-based yield regression in citrus
A PREPRINT
Table 9: Tracking results per frame sequence in MORANGET for the two best detection models: YOLOv5l and
YOLOv3.
Model
Sequence
HOTA
DetA
AssA
MOTA
CbyT
CbyT-GT
Relative error (%)
Median
YOLOv5l
V01
0.37662
0.32271
0.47037
0.06078
111
110
0.91%
6.95%
V02
0.34375
0.24189
0.48938
0.17777
34
46
26.09%
V03
0.43321
0.31249
0.60213
0.34024
81
90
10.00%
V04
0.71576
0.69602
0.73719
0.84919
109
105
3.81%
V05
0.60224
0.60302
0.60454
0.72446
151
148
2.03%
V06
0.51853
0.45734
0.59217
0.55306
146
122
19.67%
V07
0.66271
0.63850
0.68908
0.78735
148
154
3.90%
V08
0.55260
0.48412
0.63734
0.62637
185
192
3.65%
V09
0.36263
0.22681
0.58042
0.28029
10
16
37.50%
V10
0.23916
0.12979
0.44391
-0.02332
15
13
15.38%
V11
0.52879
0.45788
0.61570
0.58926
77
87
11.49%
V12
0.53879
0.46801
0.62259
0.59311
116
115
0.87%
All
0.56039
0.48968
0.64591
0.58540
1183
1198
1.25%
YOLOv3
V01
0.33805
0.27482
0.42379
0.20005
95
110
13.64%
8.45%
V02
0.36436
0.25440
0.52319
0.27699
33
46
28.26%
V03
0.41799
0.32480
0.53953
0.34516
94
90
4.44%
V04
0.59680
0.55379
0.64500
0.71497
111
105
5.71%
V05
0.58442
0.56636
0.60592
0.73024
152
148
2.70%
V06
0.52529
0.46520
0.59506
0.56571
139
122
13.93%
V07
0.53014
0.48528
0.58142
0.64985
136
154
11.69%
V08
0.50786
0.43300
0.60138
0.56000
175
192
8.85%
V09
0.31171
0.16878
0.57590
0.18565
7
16
56.25%
V10
0.30117
0.18895
0.48078
0.05758
14
13
7.69%
V11
0.50065
0.41959
0.60027
0.52388
80
87
8.05%
V12
0.54416
0.47418
0.62598
0.60044
117
115
1.74%
All
0.51003
0.43885
0.59609
0.54786
1153
1198
3.76%
0
25
50
75
100
125
150
175
Number of frames where fruit is visible
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
Number of tracks
V01
YOLOv5l-based tracking (mass: 6696)
Ground-truth (mass: 7840)
0
50
100
150
200
250
Number of frames where fruit is visible
0
2
4
6
8
10
Number of tracks
V04
YOLOv5l-based tracking (mass: 12974)
Ground-truth (mass: 13693)
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Number of frames where fruit is visible
0.0
2.5
5.0
7.5
10.0
12.5
15.0
17.5
20.0
Number of tracks
V08
YOLOv5l-based tracking (mass: 19165)
Ground-truth (mass: 24385)
0
50
100
150
200
Number of frames where fruit is visible
0.0
2.5
5.0
7.5
10.0
12.5
15.0
17.5
Number of tracks
V12
YOLOv5l-based tracking (mass: 8664)
Ground-truth (mass: 11700)
Figure 8: Histograms showing the accumulated number of oranges appearances, contrasting the ground-truth (orange
histograms) and the pipeline tracking results (blue histograms) for four frame sequences in MORANGET. More mass in
the histograms means more appearances of fruits.
24

A pipeline for MOT with 3-D relocalization and NN-based yield regression in citrus
A PREPRINT
Figure 9: Fruits in LOST state during tracking (dashed white boxes) in frame 108 from V01. The misdetections are
caused by the motion blur in the frame. Our tracking module follows the tracks, keeping them in LOST (non-visible)
state, while ground-truth data considers such tracks visible fruits. Part of the tracks are relocalized in the next frame 109.
Best seen in digital format.
Figure 10: Processing results considering the entire dataset, achieving performance of R2 = 0.61.
25

A pipeline for MOT with 3-D relocalization and NN-based yield regression in citrus
A PREPRINT
(a) 20% threshold, 148 trees, R2 = 0.79.
(b) 30% threshold, 98 trees, R2 = 0.85.
Figure 11: Yield regression, subject to different thresholds for fruit counting. (a) Ensuring at least 20% of the ground
truth identified by counting (148 trees in the test set), R2 = 0.79. (b) Ensuring at least 30% of the ground truth identified
by counting (98 trees in the test set), R2 = 0.85. The counting was performed by tracking from YOLOv3.
During our analysis of the full dataset, which includes the fruit counting from videos captured on each side of the plant
(CbyT-A + CbyT-B), the ground truth (F1 + F2 + F3), and the yield estimated by the regressor, we observed that a
significant number of samples had a much lower number of counted visible fruits (CbyT-A + CbyT-B) compared to the
sum F1 + F2 + F3. In fact, most of these samples lie below the 40% detection rate mentioned in Table 5.
This analysis led us to develop the hypothesis that implementing an acceptance threshold for the videos, based on the
ratio between detected versus ground truth fruits, could potentially improve the results of the regressor. To test this
hypothesis, we established thresholds for the acquisition process. Initially, we considered only videos with a minimum
identification rate of 20% of the ground truth fruits. This new experiment reduced the dataset to 741 plants, with 148
plants reserved for testing purposes.
The results of this experiment showed a significant improvement, with the R2 value increasing to 0.79, as illustrated in
Figure 11a. We can also observe a reduced dispersion around the diagonal line, indicating better performance. This
improved value of the R2 suggests that our neural network regressor was able to explain a greater portion of the variance
in yield estimation when considering this reduced dataset.
Furthermore, when we raised the threshold to require the detection of at least 30% of the ground truth (still below the
40% in Table 5), the R2 value further improved to 0.85, as shown in Figure 11b. This new experiment reduced the
dataset to 558 trees, with 98 plants reserved for testing purposes, seen in Figure 11b. These results clearly indicate
the performance of the regressor is closely tied to the quality of the machine learning identification and fruit counting
results. It is important to acknowledge that it is not possible to identify 100% of the fruits through an automatic counting
process, as some fruits are located inside the canopies, not visible by camera in any pose.
We observe the same behavior when considering the counting produced using tracking from YOLOv5l detections. In
this case, requiring detection of at least 30% of the ground truth, we got a set of 668 trees. Of these, 557 were chosen
for training the regressor, resulting in a R2 value of 0.82 for the test set, which comprised the remaining 111 trees. A
scatter plot of this result is seen in Figure 12.
5
Discussion
The complex nature of the natural environment, coupled with the variability in fruit farming practices, continues to
pose significant challenges for automating both monitoring and harvesting. As noted by He et al. [2022a], achieving
automated operations in complex agricultural fields requires a synergistic approach that combines engineering and
standardization of agricultural management practices. Such integration is crucial to enable future automated operations
and management. It is essential that breeders and agronomists adapt the plants for automated operation. For example,
the results by Gao et al. [2022] show the clear advantages of systems like fruiting wall on automated counting and yield
estimation. Our pipeline reached significant results in a diverse set of orchard management, using hand-held video
streams recorded by smartphones. We expect even better results in more controlled settings, like fruiting walls and
artificial lightning at night operations, and employing improved hardware like wide-angle lenses, and visual-inertial
26

A pipeline for MOT with 3-D relocalization and NN-based yield regression in citrus
A PREPRINT
Figure 12: Yield regression for a test set of 111 trees, subject to a threshold of at least 30% of the ground truth
identified by counting. The counting was performed by tracking from YOLOv5l detections. The yield regression
reached R2 = 0.82.
cameras. The image capture procedure employed in this work is coupled to the distributed nature of the Fundecitrus’
Orange Crop Forecast, performed by 30 field agents covering a large territory. Video recordings by smartphones were
a practical, cheap solution, after other designs involving UAVs and cameras arrays being considered, and prior tests
performed on field.
The Crop Forecast employs a well-established methodology [Fundecitrus, 2022], relying on a large set of individual
trees rather than the scanning of entire rows or plots. One challenge arising from this tree-based approach is the
difficulty in visually defining the boundaries of neighboring trees, leading to branches from one tree entering the canopy
of another. While the Crop Forecast team can manage this issue through manual fruit stripping, enabling accurate
attribution of oranges to the correct tree (albeit a laborious task for the forecast staff), a vision-based system would
find error-free fruit-to-tree assignment impractical. Other approaches, such as those integrating row-level or plot-level
data and utilizing vehicle-mounted cameras, as demonstrated by Zhang et al. [2022], could be considered. In row-level
counting, exact fruit-to-tree attribution would not pose an issue.
Besides the large number of works on fruit detection and impressive results reached by neural networks-based systems,
fruit detection is still challenging. Considering large datasets containing a representative set of images, and presenting
diversity in light conditions, sensors, noise, crop varieties and phenological stage, detection performance can yet be
significantly improved. However, accurate detection is necessary but not sufficient for accurate fruit counting, mainly
because of occlusion issues. Better detection models depend on large annotated datasets for training and evaluation,
but the scarcity of such datasets remains a key bottleneck in developing the next-generation of intelligent systems for
precision agriculture, as pointed by Lu and Young [2020]. We hope that MORANGET and ORANDET be significant
contributions in this regard.
Kalman filter-based trackers [Bewley et al., 2016] can be considered an alternative to handle short-term fruit lost,
but it is not as efficient as relocalization for long occlusion periods and changes in the movement direction. Our
relocalization module can be considered an alternative to the motion displacement estimation proposed by Zhang et al.
[2022], specially useful for non-linear movements and non-planar fruit spatial distributions. Zhang et al. [2022] argues
that SORT-like tracking [Bewley et al., 2016, Wojke et al., 2018] cannot handle dense fruit spatial distribution in space
and heavy overlap. We have shown that relocalization based on 3-D is a viable alternative to complement inter-frame
fruit tracking by data association algorithms. Full 3-D reconstruction is not needed, just ego-motion, which can be
obtained by other methods like visual-inertial odometry, benefiting of new odometry-capable camera hardware that
recently became commercially available.
As seen in Table 9, some sequences present large relative errors. Consider sequences V09 and V10, that show two faces
of the same small orange tree under a challenging setting: wind is shaking the branches, occlusion by leaves is severe,
and oranges are in a more mature stage than the examples in the training set. Considering less than 20 oranges are visible,
a few missing oranges in these examples represents a large relative error. In this challenge setting, both the short-term
tracking component, inter-frame association, and the long-term tracking component, 3-D relocalization, are jeopardized.
Noteworthy that when the tracking results are integrated, i.e., when the 1,198 fruits/tracks are considered, the counting
error rates are low. This is specially important considering that a yield prediction system must integrate several trees for
accuracy. Despite large errors regarding single trees, the results point to tracker stability when considering a larger
number of oranges.
27

A pipeline for MOT with 3-D relocalization and NN-based yield regression in citrus
A PREPRINT
Multiple fruit tracking is a harder problem than fruit counting. Seeking for fruits in images, accurately identifying them,
and evaluating when they are visible/reachable and when not is a challenge. Our reported values for HOTA and MOTA,
and the results reported by de Jong et al. [2022] and Villacrés et al. [2023] indicate MOT in orchards research still needs
significant improvements to achieve high tracking rates, above 0.9. However, accurate fruit counting could be achieved
before highly accurate MOT. It is noteworthy that fruit tracking on the field is a challenging task even for humans.
Our yield regression confronts a significant challenge: understanding the relationship between observable and unobserv-
able fruits. Koirala et al. [2021] delved into a similar aspect concerning mango trees. Initially, our yield regression
displayed a modest prediction capability, with R2 = 0.61. However, ensuring that a minimum of 30% of the fruits
were accurately identified by the computer vision-based counting system elevated the R2 values beyond 0.80. Yet, the
validity of assuming that at least 30% of the yield is visible in the canopy, amenable to vision-based counting, warrants
scrutiny. Is this assumption realistically grounded? We anticipate that sweet orange trees predominantly bear fruit in the
outer or upper regions of the canopy due to enhanced sunlight exposure.
Upon scrutinizing the MORANGET dataset, compiled from high-quality video recordings, it became evident that in
most sequences the oranges identified by annotators corresponded to 30 to 50% of the true yield (F1 + F2 + F3)
obtained through fruit stripping. An exception was noted in sequence V03, where only 12.5% of the fruits were
discerned by annotators. This serves as evidence that low-quality video input significantly contributed to errors, and
accurate regression from visible fruits holds promise. Moreover, this underscores the need for advancements in image
acquisition systems, potentially incorporating solutions like artificial lighting during night operations and employing
high dynamic range image sensors.
6
Conclusion
This work proposes a complete pipeline for yield estimation in citrus trees, comprising imaging methodology for fruit
detection, multiple orange tracking and yield regression integrating fruit counting to other tree data as size and age.
Exploiting ego-motion data, i.e., camera pose information, we were able to create (i) a practical process for ground-truth
annotation, and (ii) a relocalization module for multiple fruit tracking, able to deal with long-term occlusions and fruit
entering and exiting the camera’s field of view. Framed as a multiple object tracking (MOT) problem, fruit counting
was developed and evaluated utilizing established MOT metrics such as MOTA and HOTA. A useful intermediary result
is the 3-D fruit localization that could be employed in other tasks and analysis, as robotic harvesting. Orange trees
under standard crop management practices will present non-visible fruit, hidden in the deeper parts of the canopy. A
yield regressor, that takes to account tree size and age besides crop variety, in addition to image-based fruit counting
data, was developed and validated considering a large set of trees (> 1,000) from a real crop forecast effort in one of the
largest sweet orange production sites in the world. In this challenging scenario, our pipeline was able to reach an R2 up
to 0.85 to true yield from fruit stripping. Even higher values for R2 could be reached for better quality video input.
Future prospects for this research involve adapting the pipeline for deployment in vehicles and exploring contemporary
deep learning-based models tailored for object tracking in image sequences.
CRediT authorship contribution statement
Thiago T. Santos: Methodology, Software, Validation, Formal Analysis, Investigation, Data Curation, Writing
– Original Draft, Visualization. Kleber X. S. de Souza: Methodology, Software, Validation, Formal Analysis,
Investigation, Data Curation, Writing – Original Draft, Visualization. João Camargo Neto: Methodology, Software,
Formal Analysis, Investigation, Data Curation, Writing – Review. Luciano V. Koenigkan: Methodology, Software,
Formal Analysis, Investigation, Data Curation, Writing – Review. Alécio S. Moreira: Data Curation, Writing – Review
and Editing. Sônia Ternes: Project administration, Methodology, Investigation, Validation, Data Curation, Writing –
Review and Editing.
Acknowledgments
This work was supported by the Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation (Embrapa) under grant 10.18.03.016.00.00.
T. T. Santos is partially funded by FAPESP (grants 2017/19282-7 and 2022/09319-9). We thank the PES/Fundecitrus
team for providing video, counting ground-truth and other plant data.
28

A pipeline for MOT with 3-D relocalization and NN-based yield regression in citrus
A PREPRINT
References
Ershat Arkin, Nurbiya Yadikar, Xuebin Xu, Alimjan Aysa, and Kurban Ubul. A survey: object detection meth-
ods from CNN to transformer. Multimedia Tools and Applications, 82:21353–21383, 6 2023. ISSN 15737721.
doi:10.1007/S11042-022-13801-3.
Danilo Valério Barbasso, Mário José Pedro Júnior, and Rose Mary Pio. Caracterização fenológica de variedades do
tipo murcott em três porta-enxertos. Revista Brasileira de Fruticultura, 27(3):399–403, Dec 2005. ISSN 0100-2945.
doi:10.1590/S0100-29452005000300015.
Keni Bernardin and Rainer Stiefelhagen. Evaluating Multiple Object Tracking Performance: The CLEAR MOT Metrics.
EURASIP Journal on Image and Video Processing, 2008:1–10, 2008.
Alex Bewley, Zongyuan Ge, Lionel Ott, Fabio Ramos, and Ben Upcroft.
Simple online and realtime
tracking.
In 2016 IEEE International Conference on Image Processing (ICIP), pages 3464–3468, 2016.
doi:10.1109/ICIP.2016.7533003.
Alexey Bochkovskiy, Chien-Yao Wang, and Hong-Yuan Mark Liao. YOLOv4: Optimal Speed and Accuracy of Object
Detection. arXiv preprint, 2020. doi:10.48550/arXiv.2004.10934.
Leo Breiman. Bagging predictors. Machine learning, 24:123–140, 1996.
João Camargo Neto, Sônia Ternes, Kleber Xavier Sampaio de Souza, Inácio Henrique Yano, and Leonardo Ribeiro
Queiros. Uso de redes neurais convolucionais para detecção de laranjas no campo. In In: Congresso Brasileiro de
Agroinformática, 12., 2019, Indaiatuba. Anais, 2019.
Kai Chen, Jiaqi Wang, Jiangmiao Pang, Yuhang Cao, Yu Xiong, Xiaoxiao Li, Shuyang Sun, Wansen Feng, Ziwei Liu,
Jiarui Xu, Zheng Zhang, Dazhi Cheng, Chenchen Zhu, Tianheng Cheng, Qijie Zhao, Buyu Li, Xin Lu, Rui Zhu, Yue
Wu, Jifeng Dai, Jingdong Wang, Jianping Shi, Wanli Ouyang, Chen Change Loy, and Dahua Lin. MMDetection:
Open MMLab Detection Toolbox and Benchmark. arXiv preprint arXiv:1906.07155, 2019.
Corinna Cortes and Vladimir Vapnik. Support-vector networks. Machine learning, 20(3):273–297, 1995.
David F. Crouse. On implementing 2d rectangular assignment algorithms. IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and
Electronic Systems, 52(4):1679–1696, 2016. doi:10.1109/TAES.2016.140952.
Andrew J. Davison. FutureMapping: The Computational Structure of Spatial AI Systems. arXiv preprint, 2018.
doi:10.48550/ARXIV.1803.11288.
Stefan de Jong, Hilmy Baja, Karsjen Tamminga, and Joao Valente. APPLE MOTS: Detection, Segmentation and
Tracking of Homogeneous Objects Using MOTS. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 7:11418–11425, 10 2022.
ISSN 23773766. doi:10.1109/LRA.2022.3199026.
Frank Dellaert. Factor Graphs: Exploiting Structure in Robotics. Annual Review of Control, Robotics, and Autonomous
Systems, 4:141–166, 5 2021. ISSN 2573-5144. doi:10.1146/annurev-control-061520-010504.
Tom Duckett et al. Agricultural Robotics: The Future of Robotic Agriculture. arXiv preprint, UK-RAS Network White
Papers, 2018. ISSN 2398-4414. doi:10.48550/ARXIV.1806.06762.
Martin A. Fischler and Robert C. Bolles. Random sample consensus: A paradigm for model fitting with applications
to image analysis and automated cartography.
Commun. ACM, 24(6):381–395, jun 1981.
ISSN 0001-0782.
doi:10.1145/358669.358692.
Jerome H. Friedman. Greedy function approximation: A gradient boosting machine. The Annals of Statistics, 29(5),
October 2001.
Fundecitrus. Relatório de atividades: junho 2021/maio 2022. Technical report, Fundo de Defesa da Citricultura (Fund
for Citrus Protection) – Fundecitrus, 2022. URL https://www.fundecitrus.com.br/pdf/relatorios/2022.
pdf.
Fundecitrus. 2022-2023 Orange Crop Forecast for the São Paulo and West-Southwest Minas Gerais Citrus Belt: May
Forecast. Technical report, Fundo de Defesa da Citricultura (Fund for Citrus Protection) – Fundecitrus, Araraquara,
SP, 2022. URL https://www.fundecitrus.com.br/pdf/pes_relatorios/2022_07_01_Tree_Inventory_
and_Orange_Crop_Forecast_2022-2023.pdf.
Hao Gan,
Won S. Lee,
Victor Alchanatis,
and A. Abd-Elrahman.
Active thermal imaging for im-
mature citrus fruit detection.
Biosystems Engineering,
198:291–303,
10 2020.
ISSN 1537-5110.
doi:10.1016/J.BIOSYSTEMSENG.2020.08.015.
Fangfang Gao, Wentai Fang, Xiaoming Sun, Zhenchao Wu, Guanao Zhao, Guo Li, Rui Li, Longsheng Fu, and
Qin Zhang. A novel apple fruit detection and counting methodology based on deep learning and trunk track-
ing in modern orchard.
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 197:107000, 6 2022.
ISSN 0168-1699.
doi:10.1016/J.COMPAG.2022.107000.
29

A pipeline for MOT with 3-D relocalization and NN-based yield regression in citrus
A PREPRINT
Jordi Gené-Mola, Ricardo Sanz-Cortiella, Joan R Rosell-Polo, Josep-Ramon Morros, Javier Ruiz-Hidalgo, Verónica
Vilaplana, and Eduard Gregorio. Fuji-sfm dataset: A collection of annotated images and point clouds for fuji
apple detection and location using structure-from-motion photogrammetry.
Data in brief, 30:105591, 2020.
doi:10.1016/j.dib.2020.105591.
Aurélien Géron. Hands-on Machine Learning with Scikit-Learn, Keras, and TensorFlow: Concepts, Tools, and
Techniques to Build Intelligent Systems. O’Reilly Media, Incorporated, 2019. ISBN 9781492032649. URL
https://books.google.com.br/books?id=OCS1twEACAAJ.
Gene H. Golub and Charles F. van Loan. Matrix Computations. JHU Press, fourth edition, 2013. ISBN 1421407949
9781421407944.
Aiping Gong, Junlin Yu, Yong He, and Zhenjun Qiu.
Citrus yield estimation based on images pro-
cessed by an android mobile phone.
Biosystems Engineering, 115:162–170, 6 2013.
ISSN 1537-5110.
doi:10.1016/J.BIOSYSTEMSENG.2013.03.009.
Aleana Gongal, Suraj Amatya, Manoj Karkee, Qin Zhang, and Karen Lewis. Sensors and systems for fruit detec-
tion and localization: A review. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 116:8–19, 2015. ISSN 0168-1699.
doi:10.1016/j.compag.2015.05.021.
Ian Goodfellow, Yoshua Bengio, and Aaron Courville. Deep Learning. MIT Press, 2017.
Nicolai Hani, Pravakar Roy, and Volkan Isler. Minneapple: A benchmark dataset for apple detection and segmentation.
IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, pages 1–1, 1 2020. ISSN 23773766. doi:10.1109/lra.2020.2965061.
Richard Hartley and Andrew Zisserman. Multiple View Geometry in Computer Vision. Cambridge University Press, 2
edition, 2004. doi:10.1017/CBO9780511811685.
Leilei He, Wentai Fang, Guanao Zhao, Zhenchao Wu, Longsheng Fu, Rui Li, Yaqoob Majeed, and Jaspreet Dhu-
pia. Fruit yield prediction and estimation in orchards: A state-of-the-art comprehensive review for both direct
and indirect methods.
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 195:106812, 4 2022a.
ISSN 0168-1699.
doi:10.1016/J.COMPAG.2022.106812.
Leiying He, Fangdong Wu, Xiaoqiang Du, and Guofeng Zhang. Cascade-SORT: A robust fruit counting approach
using multiple features cascade matching. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 200:107223, 9 2022b. ISSN
0168-1699. doi:10.1016/J.COMPAG.2022.107223.
Guoquan Huang. Visual-inertial navigation: A concise review. In 2019 International Conference on Robotics and
Automation (ICRA), pages 9572–9582, 2019. doi:10.1109/ICRA.2019.8793604.
Nicolai Häni, Pravakar Roy, and Volkan Isler. A comparative study of fruit detection and counting methods for yield
mapping in apple orchards. Journal of Field Robotics, 37(2):263–282, 2020. doi:10.1002/rob.21902.
Chanho Kim, Fuxin Li, Arridhana Ciptadi, and James M. Rehg. Multiple hypothesis tracking revisited. In 2015 IEEE
International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV), pages 4696–4704, 2015. doi:10.1109/ICCV.2015.533.
Andrew P. King and Andrew Zisserman. Statistics for Biomedical Engineers and Scientists. Academic Press, 1 edition,
2019. doi:10.1016/C2018-0-02241-0.
Ron Kohavi. A Study of Cross-Validation and Bootstrap for Accuracy Estimation and Model Selection. In Proceedings
of the International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI’95), pages 1137–1143, 1995.
Anand Koirala, KB Walsh, Zhenglin Wang, and C McCarthy. Deep learning for real-time fruit detection and orchard fruit
load estimation: Benchmarking of ‘MangoYOLO’. Precision Agriculture, 20:1107–1135, 2019a. doi:10.1007/s11119-
019-09642-0.
Anand Koirala, Kerry B. Walsh, Zhenglin Wang, and Cheryl McCarthy. Deep learning – method overview and review
of use for fruit detection and yield estimation. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 162:219–234, 2019b. ISSN
0168-1699. doi:10.1016/j.compag.2019.04.017.
Anand Koirala, Kerry B Walsh, Zhenglin Wang, and Jung Eek Son. Attempting to Estimate the Unseen—Correction
for Occluded Fruit in Tree Fruit Load Estimation by Machine Vision with Deep Learning. Agronomy 2021, Vol. 11,
Page 347, 11:347, 2 2021. ISSN 2073-4395. doi:10.3390/AGRONOMY11020347.
Harold W. Kuhn. The Hungarian method for the assignment problem. Naval research logistics quarterly, 2(1-2):83–97,
1955.
Yann LeCun, Yoshua Bengio, and Geoffrey Hinton. Deep learning. Nature, 521(7553):436–444, 2015.
Chuyi Li, Lulu Li, Hongliang Jiang, Kaiheng Weng, Yifei Geng, Liang Li, Zaidan Ke, Qingyuan Li, Meng Cheng,
Weiqiang Nie, Yiduo Li, Bo Zhang, Yufei Liang, Linyuan Zhou, Xiaoming Xu, Xiangxiang Chu, Xiaoming Wei, and
Xiaolin Wei. Yolov6: A single-stage object detection framework for industrial applications, 2022.
30

A pipeline for MOT with 3-D relocalization and NN-based yield regression in citrus
A PREPRINT
Xu Liu, Steven W. Chen, Chenhao Liu, Shreyas S. Shivakumar, Jnaneshwar Das, Camillo J. Taylor, James Underwood,
and Vijay Kumar. Monocular camera based fruit counting and mapping with semantic data association. IEEE
Robotics and Automation Letters, 4:2296–2303, 7 2019. ISSN 2377-3766. doi:10.1109/LRA.2019.2901987.
Yuzhen Lu and Sierra Young.
A survey of public datasets for computer vision tasks in preci-
sion agriculture.
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 178:105760, 2020.
ISSN 0168-1699.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2020.105760.
Jonathon Luiten, Aljo˘sa O˘sep, , Patrick Dendorfer, Philip Torr, Andreas Geiger, Laura Leal-Taixé, and Bastian Leibe.
HOTA: A higher order metric for evaluating multi-object tracking. International Journal of Computer Vision, 129:
548–578, 2021. doi:10.1007/s11263-020-01375-2.
Alan Lukezic, Tomas Vojir, Luka Cehovin Zajc, Jiri Matas, and Matej Kristan. Discriminative correlation filter with
channel and spatial reliability. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR), July 2017.
Walter Maldonado and José Carlos Barbosa. Automatic green fruit counting in orange trees using digital images.
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 127:572–581, 2016. ISSN 0168-1699. doi:10.1016/j.compag.2016.07.023.
Anton Milan, Laura Leal-Taixe, Ian Reid, Stefan Roth, and Konrad Schindler. MOT16: A benchmark for multi-object
tracking. arXiv preprint, 2016. doi:10.48550/ARXIV.1603.00831.
Hamzeh Mirhaji, Mohsen Soleymani, Abbas Asakereh, and Saman Abdanan Mehdizadeh.
Fruit detection and
load estimation of an orange orchard using the yolo models through simple approaches in different imaging
and illumination conditions. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 191:106533, 2021. ISSN 0168-1699.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2021.106533.
Marius Muja and David G. Lowe. Scalable nearest neighbor algorithms for high dimensional data. IEEE Transactions
on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, 36(11):2227–2240, 2014. doi:10.1109/TPAMI.2014.2321376.
Joseph Redmon and Ali Farhadi.
YOLOv3:
An Incremental Improvement.
arXiv preprint,
2018.
doi:10.48550/ARXIV.1804.02767.
Shaoqing Ren, Kaiming He, Ross Girshick, and Jian Sun. Faster R-CNN: Towards Real-Time Object Detection with
Region Proposal Networks. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, 39:1137–1149, 6 2017.
ISSN 01628828. doi:10.1109/TPAMI.2016.2577031.
Ethan Rublee, Vincent Rabaud, Kurt Konolige, and Gary Bradski. ORB: An efficient alternative to SIFT or SURF. In
2011 International Conference on Computer Vision, pages 2564–2571, 2011. doi:10.1109/ICCV.2011.6126544.
Inkyu Sa, Zongyuan Ge, Feras Dayoub, Ben Upcroft, Tristan Perez, and Chris McCool. Deepfruits: A fruit detection
system using deep neural networks. Sensors, 16:1222, 8 2016. ISSN 1424-8220. doi:10.3390/s16081222.
Thiago T. Santos, João Camargo Neto, Luciano V. Koenigkan, Wilson L. V. Nakano, Kleber X. S. de Souza, Inácio H.
Yano, Leonardo R. Queiros, and Sônia Ternes. eContaFruto OranDet: dataset for image-based orange detection,
2022. URL https://doi.org/10.48432/IG6VIQ.
Thiago T. Santos, João Camargo Neto, Luciano V. Koenigkan, Wilson L. V. Nakano, Kleber X. S. de Souza, and
Sônia Ternes. eContaFruto MOrangeT: dataset for image-based orange tracking, 2023. URL https://doi.org/
10.48432/OI7BFG.
Johannes L. Schonberger and Jan-Michael Frahm. Structure-from-motion revisited. In Proceedings of the IEEE
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), June 2016.
Tahira Shehzadi, Khurram Azeem Hashmi, Didier Stricker, and Muhammad Zeshan Afzal. Object detection with
transformers: A review, 2023.
Mingxing Tan, Ruoming Pang, and Quoc V. Le.
Efficientdet: Scalable and efficient object detection.
In
2020 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pages 10778–10787, 2020.
doi:10.1109/CVPR42600.2020.01079.
Yunong Tian, Guodong Yang, Zhe Wang, Hao Wang, En Li, and Zize Liang. Apple detection during different growth
stages in orchards using the improved yolo-v3 model. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 157:417–426, 2019.
ISSN 0168-1699. doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2019.01.012.
Juan Villacrés, Michelle Viscaino, José Delpiano, Stavros Vougioukas, and Fernando Auat Cheein. Apple orchard
production estimation using deep learning strategies: A comparison of tracking-by-detection algorithms. Computers
and Electronics in Agriculture, 204:107513, 1 2023. ISSN 0168-1699. doi:10.1016/J.COMPAG.2022.107513.
Paul Voigtlaender, Michael Krause, Aljosa Osep, Jonathon Luiten, Berin Balachandar Gnana Sekar, Andreas Geiger,
and Bastian Leibe. Mots: Multi-object tracking and segmentation. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), June 2019.
31

A pipeline for MOT with 3-D relocalization and NN-based yield regression in citrus
A PREPRINT
Chien-Yao Wang, Alexey Bochkovskiy, and Hong-Yuan Mark Liao. Yolov7: Trainable bag-of-freebies sets new
state-of-the-art for real-time object detectors, 2022.
Zhenglin Wang, Kerry Walsh, and Anand Koirala. Mango Fruit Load Estimation Using a Video Based MangoY-
OLO—Kalman Filter—Hungarian Algorithm Method. Sensors 2019, Vol. 19, Page 2742, 19:2742, 6 2019. ISSN
1424-8220. doi:10.3390/S19122742.
Nicolai Wojke, Alex Bewley, and Dietrich Paulus. Simple online and realtime tracking with a deep association metric.
Proceedings - International Conference on Image Processing, ICIP, 2017-September:3645–3649, 2 2018. ISSN
15224880. doi:10.1109/ICIP.2017.8296962.
Dvoralai Wulfsohn, Felipe Aravena Zamora, Camilla Potin Téllez, Inés Zamora Lagos, and Marta García-Fiñana.
Multilevel systematic sampling to estimate total fruit number for yield forecasts. Precision Agriculture, 13:256–275,
4 2012. ISSN 13852256. doi:10.1007/s11119-011-9245-2.
Lijia Xu, Yihan Wang, Xiaoshi Shi, Zuoliang Tang, Xinyuan Chen, Yuchao Wang, Zhiyong Zou, Peng Huang, Bi Liu,
Ning Yang, Zhiwei Lu, Yong He, and Yongpeng Zhao. Real-time and accurate detection of citrus in complex
scenes based on hpl-yolov4. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 205:107590, 2023. ISSN 0168-1699.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2022.107590.
Zhenbo Xu, Wei Zhang, Xiao Tan, Wei Yang, Xiangbo Su, Yuchen Yuan, Hongwu Zhang, Shilei Wen, Errui Ding, and
Liusheng Huang. Pointtrack++ for effective online multi-object tracking and segmentation. arXiv preprint, 2020.
doi:10.48550/ARXIV.2007.01549.
Wenli Zhang, Jiaqi Wang, Yuxin Liu, Kaizhen Chen, Huibin Li, Yulin Duan, Wenbin Wu, Yun Shi, and Wei Guo.
Deep-learning-based in-field citrus fruit detection and tracking. Horticulture Research, 9, 1 2022. ISSN 20527276.
doi:10.1093/HR/UHAC003.
A
HOTA
Consider an assignment matrix ˆA(α)
i
[p, q] that matches bounding boxes b(p)
i
∈Bi to ground-truth boxes ˆb(q)
i
∈ˆBi, the
set of annotated bounding boxes for frame fi, ensuring that IoU(b(p)
i
, ˆb(q)
i ) ≥α. The assignments are one-to-one: a box
b(p)
i
can be assigned to at most one box ˆb(q)
i
in the ground-truth and vice versa. As seen in Section 3.3, ˆA(α)
i
[p, q] = 1
in the case of assignment and zero otherwise. Let m(p,q)
i
= ⟨b(p)
i
, ˆb(q)
i ⟩be a compact representation for an assignment.
The set of true positives TP(α)
i
for frame fi is defined as:
TP(α)
i
= {m(p,q)
i
= ⟨b(p)
i
, ˆb(q)
i ⟩| ˆA(α)
i
[p, q] = 1}
(9)
Integrating the true positives for all M frames, we have the set TP(α):
TP(α) =
M
[
i=1
TP(α)
i
(10)
Similarly, the false negatives set FN(α)
i
for fi and the set of all false negatives FN(α) are defined as:
FN(α)
i
= {ˆb(q)
i
|
X
p
ˆA(α)
i
[p, q] = 0}
(11)
(bounding boxes in the ground-truth not matched to any detected box) and
FN(α) =
M
[
i=1
FN(α)
i
(12)
Finally, the false positive set FP(α)
i
for fi and the set of all false positives FP(α) are defined as:
FP(α)
i
= {b(p)
i
|
X
q
ˆA(α)
i
[p, q] = 0}
(13)
(detected boxes not assigned to any box in the ground-truth) and
FP(α) =
M
[
i=1
FP(α)
i
(14)
32

A pipeline for MOT with 3-D relocalization and NN-based yield regression in citrus
A PREPRINT
b(p)
i
TPA(α)
TPA(α)
FPA(α)
FPA(α)
ˆb(q)
i
FNA(α)
ground-truth boxes
detected boxes
fi−2
fi−1
fi
fi+1
fi+2
fi+3
fi+4
fi+5
fi+6
Figure 13: The three association sets in HOTA: true positive association (TPA(α)), composed by pairs (matches) of
detected and ground truth boxes (marked in dashed black lines); false negative association (FNA(α)) composed by
false negatives and matches with a different detection ID (red dashed lines), and false positive association (FPA(α)),
composed by false positives and matches with different ground-truth ID (orange dashed lines). Ground-truth boxes are
displayed as circles for visualization purposes. The colors represent the different IDs for ground-truth and detected
boxes. Based on Figure 2 in Luiten et al. [2021].
Assume gid(·) : S
i ˆBi →N a function that maps boxes in the ground-truth to numeric identifiers, and pid(·) : S
i Bi →
N a function that does the same for detected boxes. To evaluate tracking in HOTA, Luiten et al. [2021] proposed three
novel concepts. For a matching m(p,q)
i
, the true positive associations set TPA(α) is composed of all true positives
m(r,s)
j
that present the same IDs for prediction and ground-truth as m(p,q)
i
:
TPA(α)(m(p,q)
i
) = {m(r,s)
j
∈TP(α) | pid(b(p)
i
) = pid(b(r)
j ) ∧gid(ˆb(q)
i ) = gid(ˆb(s)
j )}
(15)
The false negative associations set FNA(α) is composed of matches that present the same ground-truth identifier
gid(ˆb(q)
i ) that m(p,q)
i
, but detections attributed to different IDs, plus the set of false negatives also identified by
gid(ˆb(q)
i ):
FNA(α)(m(p,q)
i
) = {m(r,s)
j
∈TP(α) | pid(b(p)
i
)̸ = pid(b(r)
j ) ∧gid(ˆb(q)
i ) = gid(ˆb(s)
j )
∪{ˆb(s)
j
∈FN(α) | gid(ˆb(q)
i ) = gid(ˆb(s)
j )}
(16)
The last concept is the false positive associations set FPA(α), composed of matches that present the same detected
identifier pid(b(p)
i
), but whose ground-truth presents different identifiers, plus all false positives also identified by
pid(b(p)
i
):
FPA(α)(m(p,q)
i
) = {m(r,s)
j
∈TP(α) | pid(b(p)
i
) = pid(b(r)
j ) ∧gid(ˆb(q)
i )̸ = gid(ˆb(s)
j )
∪{b(r)
j
∈FP(α) | pid(b(p)
i
) = pid(b(r)
j )}
(17)
Figure 13 illustrates the three kinds of association sets. Finally, HOTAα can be defined as
HOTAα =
v
u
u
t
P
m(p,q)
i
∈TP(α) A(m(p,q)
i
)
|TP(α)| + |FN(α)| + |FP(α)|
(18)
where A(m(p,q)
i
) measures the alignment between predicted and ground-truth tracks:
A(m(p,q)
i
) =
|TPA(α)(m(p,q)
i
)|
|TPA(α)(m(p,q)
i
)| + |FNA(α)(m(p,q)
i
)| + |FPA(α)(m(p,q)
i
)|
(19)
33

A pipeline for MOT with 3-D relocalization and NN-based yield regression in citrus
A PREPRINT
Luiten et al. call this a double Jaccard formulation: the Jaccard metric is employed on the evaluation of detection, with
the matches m(p,q)
i
∈TP(α) being weighted by the association score A(m(p,q)
i
), which also is a Jaccard metric. The
proponents also argue that the metric is the geometric mean of a detection score and an association score, considering
that
DetAα =
|TP(α)|
|TP(α)| + |FN(α)| + |FP(α)|
(20)
AssAα =
1
|TP(α)|
X
m(p,q)
i
∈TP(α)
A(m(p,q)
i
)
(21)
HOTAα =
v
u
u
t
P
m(p,q)
i
∈TP(α) A(m(p,q)
i
)
|TP(α)| + |FN(α)| + |FP(α)|
=
p
DetAα · AssAα
(22)
HOTAα evaluates detection and association, but not the localization accuracy for the matches, i.e., the spatial fit
between boxes’ areas. Localization is evaluated by the final HOTA score, that integrates HOTAα for different values of
α:
HOTA =
Z 1
0
HOTAαdα ≈1
19
X
α∈[0.05,0.1,...,0.9,0.95]
HOTAα
(23)
Equations 15 to 23 correspond to Luiten et al. [2021] formulations, rewritten to employ the notations adopted in the
present work. It is important to note that, like in MOTA [Bernardin and Stiefelhagen, 2008], the employed assignments
ˆA(α)
i
[p, q] are the ones that maximize the final HOTA score (see Luiten et al. [2021] for details about the matching
optimization procedure). Here, we will employ HOTA for the evaluation of our multiple orange tracking, and DetA and
AssA scores to decompose tracking assessment into its detection and association components (note that DetA and AssA
metrics are computed from DetAα and AssAα integrating different α thresholds, as seen for HOTA in Equation 23).
We have employed the original code from HOTA authors14.
14https://github.com/JonathonLuiten/TrackEval.git.
34
