Schneider et al 
73 
 
Towards Predicting Vine Yield: 
Conceptualization of 3D Grape 
Models and Derivation of Reliable 
Physical and Morphological 
Parameters 
 
GI_Forum 2020, Issue 1  
Page: 73 - 88  
Full Paper 
Corresponding Author: 
t.schneider@fh-kaernten.at 
DOI: 10.1553/giscience2020_01_s73 
 
Thomas Schneider1, Gernot Paulus1 and Karl-Heinrich Anders1 
1Carinthia University of Applied Sciences (FH Kärnten), Austria 
Abstract 
In viticulture, yield prediction plays an important role, helping winegrowers to predict the 
start of the next growth stage of vines and to improve vineyard management decision-
making. To predict a vineyard’s yield, it is necessary to gather accurate local information 
about the vine’s phenology and morphology, such as the volume of individual grapes. 
Traditional collection of these data and yield prediction rely on resource- and time-intensive 
direct visual and manual in-field work by viticulturists. Thus, only limited sampling in the 
vineyards is possible, carried out by humans. Automated procedures utilizing sensor-based 
systems reduce the data acquisition time and enable the collection of high-resolution data 
from the entire vineyard. Large-scale 3D models of vineyards can be generated from these 
data and used to analyse, for example, the vineyard’s yield or the vegetative stage of 
individual vines.  
We propose a concept for a 3D model that uses close-range photogrammetry. In a 
laboratory experiment, we tested the acquisition of multi-view image datasets from grapes 
using close-range photogrammetry and derived physical and morphological parameters 
from 3D grape models. The results could contribute to the design and implementation of a 
large-scale in-field experiment. 
Keywords: 
precision viticulture, vine, 3D grape model, physical parameters, morphological 
parameters  
1 
Introduction  
Vines play an important role in the lives of many, and their connection to mankind can be 
traced back to ancient times (Poupin et al., 2011). About 28.4 million litres of wine were 
produced in 2015, an increase of 3.5% since 2014 (Wine Institute, 2019). Due to the constantly 
increasing consumption and demand for high-quality wines, winegrowers need to find efficient 
approaches to guarantee effective vine-growing and high-quality grapes. To facilitate efficient 
and high-quality viticulture, vineyard managers record phenological data of their vines on a 
weekly basis (Westover, 2018). The knowledge gained through analysis of phenological data 

Schneider et al 
74 
 
helps them to execute vineyard management practices at the right time and to determine the 
beginning of the next growth phase of the plants (Westover, 2018). Furthermore, estimated 
crop yields derived from phenological information is also helpful for wineries so that they can 
predict better the size of their crops and how much wine they will produce (Moyer and Komm, 
2015). However, phenological data collection is traditionally performed manually (Moyer and 
Komm, 2015), is time-consuming (Nuske et al., 2014), and can be prone to human error (Rose 
et al., 2016). The application of sensor-based systems to collect and analyse phenological data 
can help to avoid gaps in phenological datasets (Westover, 2018), reduce human error and data 
collection time, make yield prediction more reliable, and reduce labour costs (Rose et al., 2016).  
This preliminary study deals with the conceptualization of 3D models of harvest-ripe grapes 
using close-range photogrammetry and the derivation of physical and morphological 
parameters from the models. It was conducted in the form of a laboratory experiment.  
The knowledge from this study could be utilized for the design and implementation of in-field 
experiments at vineyard scale. Furthermore, the information obtained helps to evaluate how 
well empirical physical and morphological measurements of the phenological stages of vines 
(in this case from harvest-ripe grapes) compare to model-based measurements. Our study also 
provides data on the image resolution required to create 3D high-density point clouds of 
individual grapes from images taken by unmanned aircraft system (UAS) flight missions.  
2 
Precision Viticulture, Phenological Stages of Vines and Yield 
Prediction 
2.1 Precision Viticulture 
Scientists and viticulturists strive constantly to find new approaches to improve the efficiency 
of vineyard management and to increase the quality of grapevines. Rapid advances in the 20th 
and 21st centuries have provided new digital and spatial technologies and enabled new sciences 
with a focus on viticulture, including precision viticulture. Nowadays, sensor-based systems 
are often used in viticulture, for example to derive phenological data from vineyards (Rose et 
al., 2016) or to predict a vineyard’s yield (Nuske et al., 2014).  
Precision viticulture is defined as the application of geospatial technologies, devices and tools 
which exploit spatial location to collect, store, manipulate, analyse and visualize environmental 
data from vineyards. Technologies and systems developed through precision viticulture give 
winegrowers and viticulturists the opportunity to collect data from their vineyards in real-time 
with accurate positional information (Goldammer, 2015).  
Thus, the application of precision viticulture technologies has a wide range of advantages for 
viticulture experts. The foremost advantage is the improvement of viticulture management, 
including not only the enhancement of management techniques but also the ability to improve 
decisions on when to apply particular techniques. Deploying vineyard-related practices in 
timely fashion, such as the adjustment of canopy and nutrients, or the detection and 
elimination of diseases and insects, leads to an increased yield, yield quality and yield security. 

Schneider et al 
75 
 
Furthermore, it helps to reduce operating costs and the use of chemicals, and to improve the 
quality of soil and groundwater around a vine (Maniak, 2004). 
2.2 Phenological Stages of Vines  
In the context of viticulture management and yield prediction, the topic of “phenology” plays 
an important role. Phenology is the science which focuses on the natural changes and 
development of organisms and their relationship with seasonal variations in climatic 
parameters (Centinari, 2018; Westover, 2018; Hellman, 2003). It gives winegrowers crucial 
information about the health and condition of their plants. An important phenological 
characteristic of vines are their vegetative changes and developments over the course of a 
season. The weekly collection of phenological data such as plant growth information is 
recommended in order to avoid gaps in the datasets (Westover, 2018). One difficulty in trying 
to measure a vine’s phenology is that plant growth is an ongoing process, and individual vines 
have their own natural growth patterns which are influenced by many different factors. Thus 
it is difficult to divide the seasonal growth of vines into exact, discrete, phases.  
Various scales and classification systems support winegrowers and scientists by dividing the 
growth process into several phenological stages. A frequently used phenological classification 
for vines is the Modified Eichhorn-Lorenz (E-L) system. This system was originally designed 
by Dr. K. W. Eichhorn and Dr. D. H. Lorenz in 1977, revised in 1995 by B. G. Coombe, and 
modified further in 2004 by Coombe and P. Dry, becoming known as the Modified Eichhorn-
Lorenz system (Westover, 2018). The modifications of the original E-L system concern 
changes in the classification of bud growth, since the visual characteristics in the early stages 
of bud growth vary among grapevine varieties (Centinari, 2018). 
The Modified E-L system classifies the annual growth of vines into 47 vegetative stages, to 
each of which is assigned a specific E-L number. The system highlights eight of these as major 
stages: Bud Burst (E-L 4), Shoots 10 cm (E-L 12), Flowering begins (E-L 19), Flowering (E-L 
23), Setting (E-L 27), Berries pea-size (E-L 31), Véraison (E-L 35) and Harvest (E-L 38). In 
the context of precision viticulture, these key phenological stages and their corresponding 
characteristics are used as benchmarks by winegrowers and scientists to check the condition 
of vines, carry out necessary practices, monitor nutrients, and reduce pests and diseases. 
Furthermore, tracking and collecting phenotypical data of vines during the major stages is 
useful to estimate a vineyard’s yield (Goldammer, 2015). 
This research project focuses on the last key phenological stage, “Harvest” (E-L 38), which is 
characterized by ripened grapes having reached their potential berry size and adopted their 
variety’s typical berry colour (Westover, 2018). Although the grapes are already ripe, the precise 
date of the harvest depends on their intended use and the vine-grower’s desired ripeness 
parameters (Hellman, 2003). The aim of the paper is to model harvest-ripe grapes in 3D and 
to derive physical and morphological parameters, such as volume (which correlates to berry 
size), from these models.  
 
 

Schneider et al 
76 
 
2.3 Yield Prediction 
Yield is another vital topic in viticulture. It is measured in tons of grapes over a vine block or 
other spatial unit. In specific applications, yield is also referred to as the amount of fruit on a 
single vine (Moyer and Komm, 2015).   
Information on a vineyard’s current anticipated yield enables winegrowers to check whether 
the yearly yield and quality goals are likely to be achieved. Yield prediction is necessary to assess 
when to utilize specific vineyard practices or to determine when grapes will be ready for harvest 
(Nuske et al., 2011). Data about physical and morphological features of grapes, such as their 
weight or volume, are valuable for vine experts as they help to predict yield (Hemming, 2016). 
Yield-prediction approaches include the in-season cluster counting method and dormant 
winter bud dissection (Moyer and Komm, 2015). To obtain reliable yield prediction results, 
yield prediction must be carried out throughout several blocks of a vineyard and throughout 
the seasons (Dunn, 2010). Traditionally, samples used for yield prediction are collected 
manually by winegrowers in the field (Nuske et al., 2014). A feature that is common to these 
traditional non-sensor-based approaches is their reliance on direct visual and manual in-field 
measurements. These traditional methods are thus very labour-intensive and allow the 
collection of only a limited number of samples. 
The application of sensor-based technologies, such as photogrammetric approaches in 
combination with UAS, overcome some of these challenges as they provide a high adaptability 
to geographical extent and can produce highly detailed point clouds covering an entire vineyard 
(Rose et al., 2016). This preliminary photogrammetric study focuses on digital data and image 
collection associated with yield prediction. It looks at the possibility of reducing time-intensive 
and expensive labour, decreasing human error, and preventing destructive sampling. It takes 
the form of a laboratory experiment for the modelling of harvest-ripe grapes as digital 3D 
models based on close-range photogrammetry. The approach also allows the derivation of 
reliable physical and morphological parameters such as grape weight and volume.  
3 
Data Acquisition and Data-Modelling Methodology 
The workflow of the laboratory experiment for the derivation of morphological parameters of 
harvest-ripe grapes is illustrated in Figure 1. The first step is to assemble the necessary 
equipment for data-capture. The subsequent data-capture procedure involves close-range 
photogrammetry to record multi-view image datasets of grapes and the manual measurement 
of grape features such as length, width and weight of individual grapes, which are utilized for 
data validation. The image datasets acquired are utilized in a multi-view 3D photogrammetric 
analysis to generate high-density 3D grape models. Next, the RANSAC shape-detection tool 
is used to derive the structure of individual grapes and parameters, such as berry diameter, 
from the 3D grape models. Characteristics such as the length, width, volume and weight of 
the digital grape clusters and of individual digital grapes are determined based on the 
parameters derived from the 3D model. The final step is a validation process, which involves 
comparing the calculated morphological parameters of the digital grapes and the manually 
measured parameters.  

Schneider et al 
77 
 
 
 
Figure 1: The laboratory experiment workflow 
3.1  Laboratory Experiment Setup and Data Acquisition Process   
Setting up the laboratory experiment requires gathering and installing the necessary equipment 
for the data capture. The equipment and objects used in the data acquisition process are:  
1. Camera  
• 
A Sony Alpha 7r3 (Sony, 2018) was used. Relevant technical details of the 
camera are: 
i. 42.4megapixels 
ii. Sensor size of 35.9 times 24.0mm 
iii. Pixel dimension of 7953 times 5304pixel 
2. Tripod 
3. Flashers 
4. Metal bars 
5. Strings 

Schneider et al 
78 
 
6. Metal plate with holes 
7. Weighing scale 
8. Calliper ruler  
9. Table to record measurements 
10. Commercially available green and red grapes (which represent grapes from vines at 
the harvest stage). 
The camera was used with a wide-angle lens and mounted on a tripod. The focal length of the 
camera was set to 90mm and the aperture to 22 for image capturing. These settings proved to 
provide the best results. No camera calibration was applied as the calibration is automatically 
estimated in the 3D modelling software.  
The data-capturing construction is a framework consisting of three metal bars (see Figure 2, 
which illustrates the final version of the construction). The grapes are attached with strings, 
tape and a metal plate to the middle of the horizontal bar in such a way that they can be rotated 
while the tripod with the camera remains fixed. The tripod and camera are placed 1 metre 
away, in front of the grapes. No position marks are used in this setup, as only the relative 
position of the camera to the grapes is of interest, and there is a very high overlap between the 
images.  
 
Figure 2: Data capture construction: 1. Camera, 2. Tripod, 3. Flashers, 4. Bars, 10. Grapes 
The processing steps of the data-capturing procedure are shown in Figure 3. The procedure 
consists of two principal parts:  
1. The image-capturing process applies close-range photogrammetry to generate high-
resolution images of the grapes from multiple points of view. During this process, 
after an image is created, the grapes are rotated by a few degrees, which changes the 
1. 
2. 
3. 
3. 
4. 
10.
4. 
4. 

Schneider et al 
79 
 
relative viewing angle of the camera on the grapes without moving the tripod. This 
ensures that images of the grapes from different points of view are recorded. The 
multi-view image dataset thus generated is used in the data-modelling process to create 
the 3D grape models.  
2. The manual measurement is carried out using a calliper ruler, a weighing scale, and a 
table to record the measurements. First, the total weight of the grape cluster is 
measured and noted. Then, each grape is carefully removed from the cluster, and its 
length, width and weight are recorded. Figure 4 shows how the length and width of 
the grapes are measured. Finally, the grapes are counted and the number of grapes 
from the individual grape clusters are recorded in a table. Figure 5 shows the various 
elements required for the manual measurement of a grape cluster. 
 
Figure 3: Workflow of the data capture process 
 
 

Schneider et al 
80 
 
 
Figure 4: Measuring length and 
width of grapes 
Figure 5: Material for manual measurement of grapes 
3.2 Multi-View 3D Photogrammetric Analysis   
The next phase of the study deals with a multi-view 3D photogrammetric analysis of the 
captured grape images. This multi-step procedure produces high-density photogrammetric 3D 
point clouds that are used to generate 3D grape models. The program Agisoft Photocan 
Professional© 1.4.3 (build 6529) is used (Agisoft, 2019). Figure 6 illustrates the workflow for 
the multi-view 3D photogrammetric analysis.  
 

Schneider et al 
81 
 
 
Figure 6: Workflow of the multi-view 3D photogrammetric analysis 
First, the high-resolution grape images are loaded into the program. Then, using the “magic 
wand” tool within Agisoft Photoscan, masks are created for each image to hide such things as 
the bars, unnatural distortions, or white pixels representing the wall. The masking results in 
the 3D grape models being more precise because the modelling will only use unmasked parts 
of images for the calculation of the point clouds and the 3D models. The data-modelling 
process was tested with unmasked images, and although the resulting 3D models showed 
generally good results, some grapes showed 3D distortions and unnatural white strips.  
Next, the images are aligned in an image-matching process. Image-matching is a prerequisite 
for 3D modelling of structures as it extracts 3D information from multiple overlapping images. 
The 3D information thus acquired can be applied to construct 3D models of the surveyed 
object or scene (Zhang, Xiong and Hao, 2011). The image-matching procedure uses extracted 
3D information to align the images and to compute the camera positions, image orientation, 
and a sparse point cloud. Next, a dense point cloud is generated based on the 3D information 
contained in the sparse point cloud, the matched images, and the camera parameters that have 
been calculated. By executing a meshing algorithm, the dense clouds are meshed to 3D grape 
models.  
Finally, a texturing process adds textures from the photographs to the corresponding parts in 
the previously generated 3D grape models, resulting in the final 3D models of the grapes 
(Figure 7, green grapes; Figure 9, red grapes). To illustrate the quality of the modelled grapes, 
photos of the actual grapes are also shown in Figures 8 and 10. 

Schneider et al 
82 
 
 
Figure 7: 3D model of the green grapes 
 
Figure 8: Photo of the actual green grapes 
 
Figure 9: 3D model of the red grapes 
 
Figure 10: Photo of the actual red grapes 
 

Schneider et al 
83 
 
3.3 Derivation of Morphological Parameters from 3D Grape Models 
The next step of the methodology is to identify the shapes of the individual grapes in the 3D 
models and to derive the physical and morphological parameters of single grapes and of grape 
clusters. Data such as their weight and volume are important for winegrowers and wineries as 
they can be utilized to predict yield (Hemming, 2016).  
In order to identify the shapes of individual grapes, the RANSAC shape detection plugin 
(Schnabel, Wahl and Klein, 2007) of the program CloudCompare (CC) version v2.10-alpha 
[64-bit] (CloudCompare, 2019) is deployed to fit spherical shapes into detected grapes in the 
3D models. If a sphere-like shape is found in a 3D model, the corresponding part of the model 
is separated, colour-coded, and a sphere is placed at that location. The grapes detected in the 
3D models are shown in Figures 11 (green grape model) and 12 (red grape model). The grapes 
in these figures are shown in different hues to allow easier visual distinction between single 
grapes.  
The CC plugin also calculates parameters of these shapes, such as the radius. The radius (r) of 
an identified digital grape is, by definition, half the grape’s width. Thus the width (b) of a 3D 
grape is derived from its radius. Next, the length (a) of each modelled grape is determined 
using its width and the length–width ratio (c) of the actual grape. The volume of the digital 
grapes is calculated using the volume formula for oblate ellipsoids (Eq. 1):  
Eq. 1: Ellipsoid volume formula 
V = 4
3 ∗π ∗൬b
2൰
2
∗ቀa
2ቁ= 4
3 ∗π ∗𝑟𝑟2 ∗(𝑟𝑟∗𝑐𝑐) 
Variable “V” is the volume, and the variables “a” and “b” represent the length and width, 
respectively. We assume that 
𝑏𝑏
2 = 𝑟𝑟 and 
𝑎𝑎
2 = 𝑟𝑟∗𝑐𝑐 where r is the radius calculated by the tool, 
b is the grape width (i.e. the small semi-axis of the ellipsoid), a is the large semi-axis or the 
grape length, and c is the mean ratio of length and width measured manually on actual grapes.  
In the next step, the mean length and width, length variance and width variance, mean volume 
and volume variance of the grapes, and total volume of the 3D grape clusters are determined. 
To validate these derived morphological parameters of the digital grapes, the same parameters 
are calculated for the actual grapes using the manual measurements. Since the weight of the 
actual grapes was also measured in the data acquisition process, the density of these grapes can 
be calculated using the formula (Eq. 2):  
Eq. 2: Density formula 
ϱ = W
V 
where "ϱ" (Rho) is the density, “W” is the weight, and “V” is the volume. The mean density 
of the green and red grapes is determined. Now, the weight, mean weight and weight variance 
of the modelled grapes are calculated using the mean density values of the actual grapes. The 
results of these calculations are given in Table 1. The values in brackets in Table 1 are the total 
volume and weight of the digital red grapes, as if all 62 grapes had been detected. For the 

Schneider et al 
84 
 
missing grapes, the mean volume and weight values of the other 3D modelled red grapes were 
used as proxies.  
 
Figure 11: Shapes of the detected green grapes 
 
Figure 12: Shapes of the detected red grapes 
 
 
Table 1: Calculated morphological parameters of actual and digitally derived green and red grapes. * 
Values in brackets are the total values, as if all actual grapes had been detected 
Parameter [unit] 
Green grapes 
Red grapes 
Actual grapes 
Digital grapes 
Actual grapes 
Digital 
grapes 
Number of grapes [-] 
29 
29 
62 
55 
Mean Length [mm] 
21.18 
21.18 
24.11 
24.11 
Length Variance [mm] 
1.46 
1.07 
3.81 
1.22 
Mean Width [mm] 
18.75 
18.75 
18.41 
18.41 
Width Variance [mm] 
1.04 
0.94 
2.06 
0.93 
Total Volume [mm³] 
115,444.02 
115,005.25 
269,494.7 
239,288.22 
(269,743.08)* 
Mean Volume [mm³] 
3,980.83 
3,981.05 
4,346.69 
4,350.69 
Volume Variance [mm³] 
639.16 
556.33 
1,565.36 
684.93 
Total Weight [g] 
138.00 
137.48 
346.00 
307.22 
(346.32)* 
Mean Weight [g] 
4.76 
4.74 
5.58 
5.59 
Weight Variance [g] 
0.76 
0.67 
2.01 
0.88 
Mean Density [g/mm³] 
0.001195 
- 
0.001284 
- 

Schneider et al 
85 
 
4 
Results and Discussion 
The laboratory experiment was performed three times. The setup and methodology described 
in this paper were followed in experiments 2 and 3 (the setup for experiment 1 was smaller), 
and the quantification was carried out only in the third experiment. In total, 6 grape clusters, 
one green and one red grape cluster per experiment, were examined. The final 3D grape 
models are illustrated in Figure 7 and Figure 9, and the quantification results are shown in 
Table 1.  
The results of the approach demonstrate the reconstruction of 3D grape models under 
laboratory conditions. The visual comparison of the models shown in Figure 7 and Figure 9 
with the actual grapes in Figure 8 and Figure 10 shows that the modelled digital grapes are very 
similar to their actual counterparts. However, the comparison also reveals that some digital 
grapes were not correctly reconstructed, which can be seen in certain deformations in the 
digital grapes. It can be concluded that the process used in this laboratory experiment worked 
well for detecting grapes: the results of the shape-detection illustrated in Figure 11, Figure 12, 
and row 2 “Number of grapes [-]” in Table 1 show that all 29 green grapes were detected. In 
addition, 55 of the 62 red grapes were correctly identified, an accuracy of 88%. However, the 
shape-detection procedure shows difficulties in identifying strongly elliptical grapes, such as 
the 7 undetected red grapes. Furthermore, the methodology is reliable for the derivation of 
physical and morphological parameters from 3D grape models. The calculated total weight, 
displayed in row "Total Weight [g]" in Table 1, of the digital green grape cluster (137.48g) 
differs by just 0.52g (0.4%) from the weight of the actual green grape cluster (138.0g). The 
estimated total weight of the digital red grape cluster (346.32g) differs by just 0.32g from its 
actual counterpart (346.0g).  
The results of this work can be compared with the measurements of Coetzee and Lombard 
(2013), who examined 300 berries from 37 grape clusters to determine specific grape 
parameters. They calculated an average grape cluster weight of 101.3g, which differs 
significantly from the estimated total grape cluster weights presented in this paper (138.0g for 
the digital green grape cluster; 346.0g for the digital red grape cluster). The average grape 
densities (1,130kg/m³ in Coetzee and Lombard (2013); 1,195kg/m³ (green grapes) and 
1284kg/m³ (red grapes) in this study) are also significantly different. These disparities can be 
attributed to the use of differently sized grapes in the two studies. Coetzee and Lombard (2013) 
calculated an average grape length of 14.6mm and grape width of 12.5mm, whereas the mean 
grape lengths in this work were 21.18mm (green grapes) and 24.11mm (red grapes), and the 
mean grape widths were 18.75mm (green grapes) and 18.41mm (red grapes).  
Some of our results were inconclusive. The calculated variance values differ greatly between 
the various parameters measured for the digital and the actual grapes. An example is the large 
difference in length variance, which is 0.39mm for the digital green grapes and the actual 
grapes, and 2.59mm for the red grapes. The large variance between the digital and the actual 
grapes is thought to be caused by the shape detection method we applied, which utilized 
spheres to approximate the grape shapes. We also experimented with using cylinders to detect 
grapes, but this proved inadequate as it resulted in a model of just 10 grapes. 
 

Schneider et al 
86 
 
Several problems and limitations were identified. The approach showed difficulties with the 
accurate reconstruction of misshapen or strongly elliptical grapes. Examples are highlighted 
by red circles in Figure 13 and Figure 14. These grapes could be correctly detected with the 
use of LiDAR-based systems. Another technology which can be applied to analyse the shape 
of any grape is described in American Society for Horticultural Science (2009). An advantage 
of the SigmaScan®-based approach described there over the method presented in this paper 
is the grapes’ independency from geometry and spatial position through the measurement of 
grapes based on difference in colour between the surveyed grape and the background. 
Additional errors such as holes in parts of stems were found because adequate point density 
cannot always be achieved for the modelling of thin structures. Another limitation is the 
immobility of the data-capture setup. It took several attempts to find an appropriate procedure 
and settings. Furthermore, a new construction would need to be built if an entire row of vines 
was to be simulated and modelled.  
The results of our preliminary laboratory experiment indicate that close-range 
photogrammetry can be applied to generate 3D grape models and that parameters such as the 
volume of the grape can be derived from these digital models.  
 
Figure 13: Difficulties detecting misshapen grapes 
 
Figure 14: Incorrectly identified elliptical 
grapes 
 
 

Schneider et al 
87 
 
5 
Conclusions and Future Work  
In this paper we conceptualized and modelled 3D grapes and used these models to derive 
physical and morphological parameters. In the laboratory experiment, a special data-capture 
setup was constructed to record multi-view high-resolution image datasets of commercially 
available green and red grapes, representing grapes at harvest stage (E-L 38). The data-
modelling process focused on the generation of high-resolution 3D grape models, the 
derivation of parameters from them, and the comparison of the parameters for 3D grape 
models and actual grapes. The approach shows that close-range photogrammetry can be 
applied in a lab to create high-resolution 3D grape models and to derive reliable physical and 
morphological parameters. 
In a future project, a similar approach could be applied in-field by, for example, creating a 
system of multiple cameras mounted on an unmanned autonomously moving vehicle, such as 
a UAS, which generates close-range multi-view image datasets. These datasets could then be 
utilized to generate 3D models of grapes on the vines, which in turn could be used to derive 
parameters such as grape volume to estimate the yield of the grapes. 
Acknowledgments 
The authors would like to thank the three anonymous reviewers and editor Mary Rigby for 
their valuable input into the content of this paper, which certainly improved the quality of it.  
References 
Agisoft. (2019). Professional Edition. Retrieved from https://www.agisoft.com/features/professional-
edition/  
American Society for Horticultural Science. (2009). Grape shapes. Retrieved from 
 
https://www.eurekalert.org/pub_releases/2009-02/asfh-gs021709.php  
Centinari, M. (2018). Grapevine Bud Break 101 [Blog post]. Retrieved from 
 
https://psuwineandgrapes.wordpress.com/2018/05/14/grapevine-bud-break-101/  
CloudCompare (version 2.10-alpha) [GPL software]. (2019). CloudCompare - Open Source project. 
Retrieved from http://www.cloudcompare.org/  
Coetzee, C. and Lombard, S. (2013). The destemming of grapes: Experiments and discrete element 
modelling. Biosystems Engineering. 114(3), 232-248. 
Dunn, G. M. (2010). Yield Forecasting [Fact sheet]. Retrieved from 
https://www.wineaustralia.com/getmedia/5304c16d-23b3-4a6f-ad53-
b3d4419cc979/201006_Yield-Forecasting.pdf  
Goldammer, T. (2015). The grape grower's handbook. 2nd edition. USA: Apex Publishers. 
Hellman, E. W. (2003). Grapevine Structure and Function. Retrieved from 
 
https://www.growables.org/information/LowChillFruit/documents/GrapeExtOrg.pdf   
Hemming, R. (2016). Wine by numbers: viticulture, part one. Retrieved from 
https://www.jancisrobinson.com/articles/wine-by-numbers-part-one  
 

Schneider et al 
88 
 
Maniak, S. (2004). Datenaustausch in geographischen Informationssystemen. [Data exchange in geographic 
information systems]. Düren, Germany: Shaker, 5-14. 
Moyer, M. M. & Komm, B. (2015). Vineyard Yield Estimation. Washington State University Extension. 
Retrieved from 
 
https://www.vineyardteam.org/files/resources/Vineyard%20Yield%20Estimation-%20WSU.pdf  
Nuske, S., Achar, S., Bates, T., Narasimhan, S. G. & Singh, S. (2011). Yield estimation in vineyards by 
visual grape detection. IEEE International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems. 2352-2358. 
doi:10.1109/IROS.2011.6095069. 
Nuske, S., Wilshusen, K., Achar, S., Yoder, L., Narasimhan, S. & Singh, S. (2014). Automated Visual 
Yield Estimation in Vineyards. Journal of Field Robotics, 31(5), 837-860. 
Poupin, M. J., Matus, J. T., Leiva-Ampuero, A. & Arce-Johnson, P. (2011). The Flowering Process and its 
Control in Plants: Gene Expression and Hormone Interaction. 1st edition. Kerala, India: Research Signpost, 
173-197.  
Rose, J., Kicherer, A., Wieland, M., Klingbeil, L., Töpfer, R. & Kuhlmann, H. (2016). Towards 
Automated Large-Scale 3D Phenotyping of Vineyards under Field Conditions. Sensors, 16(12), 1-7. 
Schnabel, R., Wahl, R. and Klein, R. (2007). Efficient RANSAC for Point-Cloud Shape Detection. 
Computer Graphics Forum, 26(2), 214-226. 
Sony (2018). Sony α7R III 35 mm full-frame camera with autofocus. Retrieved from 
https://www.sony.co.in/electronics/interchangeable-lens-cameras/ilce-7rm3/specifications  
Westover, F. (2018). Grapevine Phenology Revisited. Retrieved from 
 https://www.winesandvines.com/features/article/196082/Grapevine-Phenology-Revisited  
Wine Institute (2019). World Wine Production by Country. Retrieved from 
 
https://personalpages.manchester.ac.uk/staff/fumie.costen/pastwork/grapes/XiaoWenyu.pdf   
Zhang, Y., Xiong, J., & Hao, L. (2011). Photogrammetric processing of low-altitude images acquired by 
unpiloted aerial vehicles. Photogrammetric Record. 26(134), 190-211. 
 
