1
Pattern Recognition Letters
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com
A Survey of Recent Advances in CNN-based Single Image Crowd Counting and Density
Estimation
Vishwanath A. Sindagia,∗∗, Vishal M. Patelb
aDept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 94 Brett Road, Piscataway, NJ 08854, USA
bDept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 94 Brett Road, Piscataway, NJ 08854, USA
ABSTRACT
Estimating count and density maps from crowd images has a wide range of applications such as video
surveillance, traﬃc monitoring, public safety and urban planning. In addition, techniques developed
for crowd counting can be applied to related tasks in other ﬁelds of study such as cell microscopy,
vehicle counting and environmental survey. The task of crowd counting and density map estimation
is riddled with many challenges such as occlusions, non-uniform density, intra-scene and inter-scene
variations in scale and perspective. Nevertheless, over the last few years, crowd count analysis has
evolved from earlier methods that are often limited to small variations in crowd density and scales to
the current state-of-the-art methods that have developed the ability to perform successfully on a wide
range of scenarios. The success of crowd counting methods in the recent years can be largely attributed
to deep learning and publications of challenging datasets. In this paper, we provide a comprehensive
survey of recent Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) based approaches that have demonstrated sig-
niﬁcant improvements over earlier methods that rely largely on hand-crafted representations. First, we
brieﬂy review the pioneering methods that use hand-crafted representations and then we delve in detail
into the deep learning-based approaches and recently published datasets. Furthermore, we discuss the
merits and drawbacks of existing CNN-based approaches and identify promising avenues of research
in this rapidly evolving ﬁeld.
c⃝2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
1. Introduction
Crowd counting aims to count the number of people in a
crowded scene where as density estimation aims to map an in-
put crowd image to it’s corresponding density map which indi-
cates the number of people per pixel present in the image (as
illustrated in Fig. 1) and the two problems have been jointly
addressed by researchers. The problem of crowd counting and
density estimation is of paramount importance and it is essen-
tial for building higher level cognitive abilities in crowded sce-
narios such as crowd monitoring [15] and scene understand-
ing [87, 115]. Crowd analysis has attracted signiﬁcant attention
from researchers in the recent past due to a variety of reasons.
Exponential growth in the world population and the resulting
urbanization has led to an increased number of activities such
∗∗Corresponding author:
e-mail: vishwanath.sindagi@rutgers.edu (Vishwanath A. Sindagi)
as sporting events, political rallies, public demonstrations etc.
(shown in Fig. 2), thereby resulting in more frequent crowd
gatherings in the recent years. In such scenarios, it is essential
to analyze crowd behavior for better management, safety and
security.
Like any other computer vision problem, crowd analysis
comes with many challenges such as occlusions, high clutter,
non-uniform distribution of people, non-uniform illumination,
intra-scene and inter-scene variations in appearance, scale and
perspective making the problem extremely diﬃcult. Some of
these challenges are illustrated in Fig. 2. The complexity of
the problem together with the wide range of applications for
crowd analysis has led to an increased focus by researchers in
the recent past.
Crowd analysis is an inherently inter-disciplinary research
topic with researchers from diﬀerent communities (such as so-
ciology [68, 10], psychology [5], physics [13, 38], biology
[72, 110], computer vision and public safety) have addressed
arXiv:1707.01202v1  [cs.CV]  5 Jul 2017

2
(a)
(b)
Fig. 1: Illustration of density map estimation. (a) Input image (b)
Corresponding density map with count.
the issue from diﬀerent viewpoints. Crowd analysis has a vari-
ety of critical applications of inter-disciplinarian nature:
Safety monitoring: The widespread usage of video surveil-
lance cameras for security and safety purposes in places such as
sports stadiums, tourist spots, shopping malls and airports has
enabled easier monitoring of crowd in such scenarios. How-
ever, traditional surveillance algorithms may break down as
they are unable to process high density crowds due to limita-
tions in their design. In such scenarios, we can leverage the
results of algorithms specially designed for crowd analysis re-
lated tasks such as behavior analysis [83, 48], congestion anal-
ysis [114, 40], anomaly detection [56, 14] and event detection
[8].
Disaster management: Many scenarios involving crowd gath-
erings such as sports events, music concerts, public demonstra-
tions and political rallies face the risk of crowd related disas-
ters such as stampedes which can be life threatening. In such
cases, crowd analysis can be used as an eﬀective tool for early
overcrowding detection and appropriate management of crowd,
hence, eventual aversion of any disaster [1, 3].
Design of public spaces: Crowd analysis on existing public
spots such as airport terminals, train stations, shopping malls
and other public buildings [23, 90] can reveal important design
shortcomings from crowd safety and convenience point of view.
These studies can be used for design of public spaces that are
optimized for better safety and crowd movement [62, 2].
Intelligence gathering and analysis:
Crowd counting tech-
niques can be used to gather intelligence for further analysis
and inference. For instance, in retail sector, crowd counting can
be used to gauge people’s interest in a product in a store and
this information can be used for appropriate product placement
[58, 67]. Similarly, crowd counting can be used to measure
queue lengths to optimize staﬀnumbers at diﬀerent times of
the day. Furthermore, crowd counting can be used to analyze
pedestrian ﬂow at signals at diﬀerent times of the day and this
information can be used for optimizing signal-wait times [9].
Virtual environments: Crowd analysis methods can be used to
understand the underlying phenomenon thereby enabling us to
establish mathematical models that can provide accurate sim-
ulations. These mathematical models can be further used for
simulation of crowd phenomena for various applications such
as computer games, inserting visual eﬀects in ﬁlm scenes and
designing evacuation plans [36, 74].
Forensic search: Crowd analysis can be used to search for sus-
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
Fig. 2: Illustration of various crowded scenes and the associated chal-
lenges. (a) Parade (b) Musical concert (c) Public demonstration (d)
Sports stadium. High clutter, overlapping of subjects, variation in scale
and perspective can be observed across images.
pects and victims in events such as bombing, shooting or acci-
dents in large gatherings. Traditional face detection and recog-
nition algorithms can be speeded up using crowd analysis tech-
niques which are more adept at handling such scenarios [47, 7].
These variety of applications has motivated researchers
across various ﬁelds to develop sophisticated methods for
crowd analysis and related tasks such as counting [15, 16, 20,
41, 17, 85, 35, 41], density estimation [52, 19, 111, 107, 75, 99,
11], segmentation [46, 27], behaviour analysis [6, 86, 22, 115,
114, 103], tracking [77, 116], scene understanding [87, 115]
and anomaly detection [63, 56]. Among these, crowd count-
ing and density estimation are a set of fundamental tasks and
they form basic building blocks for various other applications
discussed earlier. Additionally, methods developed for crowd
counting can be easily extended to counting tasks in other ﬁelds
such as cell microscopy [99, 97, 52, 20], vehicle counting [70],
environmental survey [31, 105], etc.
Over the last few years, researchers have attempted to ad-
dress the issue of crowd counting and density estimation us-
ing a variety of approaches such as detection-based counting,
clustering-based counting and regression-based counting [61].
The initial work on regression-based methods mainly use hand-
crafted features and the more recent works use Convolutional
Neural Network (CNN) based approaches.
The CNN-based
approaches have demonstrated signiﬁcant improvements over
previous hand-crafted feature-based methods, thus, motivating
more researchers to explore CNN-based approaches further for
related crowd analysis problems. In this paper, we review vari-
ous single image crowd counting and density estimation meth-
ods with a speciﬁc focus on recent CNN-based approaches.
Researchers have attempted to provide a comprehensive sur-
vey and evaluation of existing techniques for various aspects of

3
crowd analysis [105, 30, 44, 55, 117]. Zhan et al. [105] and
Junior et al. [44] were among the ﬁrst ones to study and review
existing methods for general crowd analysis. Li et al. [55] sur-
veyed diﬀerent methods for crowded scene analysis tasks such
as crowd motion pattern learning, crowd behavior, activity anal-
ysis and anomaly detection in crowds. More recently, Zitouni et
al. [117] evaluated existing methods across diﬀerent research
disciplines by inferring key statistical evidence from existing
literature and provided suggestions towards the general aspects
of techniques rather than any speciﬁc algorithm. While these
works focussed on the general aspects of crowd analysis, re-
searchers have studied in detail crowd counting and density es-
timation methods speciﬁcally [61, 81, 79]. Loy et al. [61] pro-
vided a detailed description and comparison of video imagery-
based crowd counting and evaluation of diﬀerent methods us-
ing the same protocol.
They also analyzed each processing
module to identify potential bottlenecks to provide new direc-
tions for further research. In another work, Ryan et al. [79]
presented an evaluation of regression-based methods for crowd
counting across multiple datasets and provided a detailed anal-
ysis of performance of various hand-crafted features. Recently,
Saleh et al. [81] surveyed two main approaches which are di-
rect approach (i.e., object based target detection) and indirect
approach (e.g. pixel-based, texture-based, and corner points
based analysis).
Though existing surveys analyze various methods for crowd
analysis and counting, they however cover only traditional
methods that use hand-crafted features and do not take into ac-
count the recent advancements driven primarily by CNN-based
approaches [87, 39, 113, 11, 85, 97, 4, 98, 111, 107, 70, 88]
and creation of new challenging crowd datasets [106, 107, 111].
While CNN-based approaches have achieved drastically lower
error rates, the creation of new datasets has enabled learning of
more generalized models. To keep up with the rapidly advanc-
ing research in crowd counting, we believe it is necessary to an-
alyze these methods in detail in order to understand the trends.
Hence, in this paper, we provide a survey of recent state-of-
the-art CNN-based approaches for crowd counting and density
estimation for single images.
Rest of the paper is organized as follows: Section 2 brieﬂy
reviews the traditional crowd counting and density estimation
approaches with an emphasis on the most recent methods. This
is followed by a detailed survey on CNN-based methods along
with a discussion on their merits and drawbacks in Section 3.
In Section 5, recently published challenging datasets for crowd
counting are discussed in detail along with results of the state-
of-the-art methods. We discuss several promising avenues for
achieving further progress in Section 6. Finally, concluding re-
marks are made in Section 7.
2. Review of traditional approaches
Various approaches have been proposed to tackle the prob-
lem of crowd counting in images [41, 19, 52, 107, 111] and
videos [12, 35, 77, 21].
Loy et al.
[61] broadly classi-
ﬁed traditional crowd counting methods based on the approach
into the following categories: (1) Detection-based approaches,
(2) Regression-based approaches, and (3) Density estimation-
based approaches.
Since the focus of this work is on CNN-based approaches,
in this section, we brieﬂy review the detection and regression-
based approaches using hand-crafted features for the sake of
completeness. In addition, we present a review of the recent
traditional methods [41, 52, 75, 99, 102] that have not been an-
alyzed in earlier surveys.
2.1. Detection-based approaches
Most of the initial research was focussed on detection style
framework, where a sliding window detector is used to detect
people in the scene [26] and this information is used to count
the number of people [54]. Detection is usually performed ei-
ther in the monolithic style or parts-based detection. Mono-
lithic detection approaches [25, 51, 94, 28] typically are tra-
ditional pedestrian detection methods which train a classiﬁer
using features (such as Haar wavelets [95], histogram oriented
gradients [25], edgelet [100] and shapelet [80]) extracted from
a full body. Various learning approaches such as Support Vec-
tor Machines, boosting [96] and random forest [34] have been
used with varying degree of success.
Though successful in
low density crowd scenes, these methods are adversely aﬀected
by the presence of high density crowds. Researchers have at-
tempted to address this issue by adopting part-based detection
methods [29, 57, 101], where one constructs boosted classiﬁers
for speciﬁc body parts such as the head and shoulder to esti-
mate the people counts in a designated area [54]. In another
approach using shape learning, Zhao et al. [112] modelled hu-
mans using 3D shapes composed of ellipsoids, and employed a
stochastic process to estimate the number and shape conﬁgura-
tion that best explains a given foreground mask in a scene. Ge
and Collins [35] further extended the idea by using ﬂexible and
practical shape models.
2.2. Regression-based approaches
Though parts-based and shape-based detectors were used to
mitigate the issues of occlusion, these methods were not suc-
cessful in the presence of extremely dense crowds and high
background clutter. To overcome these issues, researchers at-
tempted to count by regression where they learn a mapping
between features extracted from local image patches to their
counts [16, 78, 20]. By counting using regression, these meth-
ods avoid dependency on learning detectors which is a rela-
tively complex task. These methods have two major compo-
nents: low-level feature extraction and regression modelling.
A variety of features such as foreground features, edge fea-
tures, texture and gradient features have been used for encoding
low-level information. Foreground features are extracted from
foreground segments in a video using standard background sub-
traction techniques. Blob-based holistic features such as area,
perimeter, perimeter-area ration, etc. have demonstrated en-
couraging results [15, 20, 78]. While these methods capture
global properties of the scene, local features such as edges and
texture/gradient features such as local binary pattern (LBP), his-
togram oriented gradients (HOG), gray level co-occurrence ma-
trices (GLCM) have been used to further improve the results.

4
Once these global and local features are extracted, diﬀerent re-
gression techniques such as linear regression [71], piecewise
linear regression [15], ridge regression [20], Gaussian process
regression and neural network [64] are used to learn a mapping
from low-level feature to the crowd count.
In a recent approach, Idrees et al. [41] identiﬁed that no sin-
gle feature or detection method is reliable enough to provide
suﬃcient information for accurate counting in the presence of
high density crowds due to various reasons such as low reso-
lution, severe occlusion, foreshortening and perspective. Ad-
ditionally, they observed that there exists a spatial relationship
that can be used to constrain the count estimates in neighboring
local regions. With these observations in mind, they proposed
to extract features using diﬀerent methods that capture diﬀerent
information. By treating densely packed crowds of individu-
als as irregular and non-homogeneous texture, they employed
Fourier analysis along with head detections and SIFT interest-
point based counting in local neighborhoods. The count es-
timates from this localized multi-scale analysis are then ag-
gregated subject to global consistency constraints. The three
sources, i.e., Fourier, interest points and head detection are then
combined with their respective conﬁdences and counts at local-
ized patches are computed independently. These local counts
are then globally constrained in a multi-scale Markov Random
Field (MRF) framework to get an estimate of count for the en-
tire image. The authors also introduced an annotated dataset
(UCF CC 50) of 50 images containing 64000 humans.
Chen et al. [19] introduced a novel cumulative attribute con-
cept for learning a regression model when only sparse and im-
balanced data are available. Considering that the challenges
of inconsistent features along with sparse and imbalanced (en-
countered during learning a regression function) are related, cu-
mulative attribute-based representation for learning a regression
model is proposed. Speciﬁcally, features extracted from sparse
and imbalanced image samples are mapped onto a cumulative
attribute space. The method is based on the notion of discrim-
inative attributes used for addressing sparse training data. This
method is inherently capable of handling imbalanced data.
2.3. Density estimation-based approaches
While the earlier methods were successful in addressing the
issues of occlusion and clutter, most of them ignored impor-
tant spatial information as they were regressing on the global
count. In contrast, Lempitsky et al. [52] proposed to learn a
linear mapping between local patch features and correspond-
ing object density maps, thereby incorporating spatial infor-
mation in the learning process. In doing so, they avoided the
hard task of learning to detect and localize individual object
instances by introducing a new approach of estimating image
density whose integral over any region in the density map gives
the count of objects within that region. The problem of learning
density maps is formulated as a minimization of a regularized
risk quadratic cost function. A new loss function appropriate
for learning density maps is introduced. The entire problem
is posed as a convex optimization task which they solve using
cutting-plane optimization.
Observing that it is diﬃcult to learn a linear mapping, Pham
et al. [75] proposed to learn a non-linear mapping between lo-
cal patch features and density maps. They used random forest
regression from multiple image patches to vote for densities of
multiple target objects to learn a non-linear mapping. In addi-
tion, they tackled the problem of large variation in appearance
and shape between crowded image patches and non-crowded
ones by proposing a crowdedness prior and they trained two
diﬀerent forests corresponding to this prior. Furthermore, they
were able to successfully speed up the estimation process for
real-time performance by proposing an eﬀective forest reduc-
tion that uses permutation of decision trees. Apart from achiev-
ing real-time performance, another advantage of their method
is that it requires relatively less memory to build and store the
forest.
Similar to the above approach, Wang and Zou [99] identi-
ﬁed that though existing methods are eﬀective, they were in-
eﬃcient from computational complexity point of view.
To
this eﬀect, they proposed a fast method for density estima-
tion based on subspace learning. Instead of learning a map-
ping between dense features and their corresponding density
maps, they learned to compute the embedding of each subspace
formed by image patches. Essentially, they exploited the rela-
tionship between images and their corresponding density maps
in the respective feature spaces. The feature space of image
patches are clustered and examples of each subspace are col-
lected to learn its embedding. Their assumption that local im-
age patches and their corresponding density maps share similar
local geometry enables them to learn locally linear embedding
using which the density map of an image patch can be estimated
by preserving the geometry. Since, implementing locally lin-
ear embedding (LLE) is time-consuming, they divided the fea-
ture spaces of image patches and their counterpart density maps
into subspaces, and computed the embedding of each subspace
formed by image patches. The density map of input patch is
then estimated by simple classiﬁcation and mapping with the
corresponding embedding matrix.
In a more recent approach, Xu and Qiu [102] observed that
the existing crowd density estimation methods used a smaller
set of features thereby limiting their ability to perform better.
Inspired by the ability of high-dimensional features in other
domains such as face recognition, they proposed to boost the
performances of crowd density estimation by using a much ex-
tensive and richer set of features. However, since the regression
techniques used by earlier methods (based on Gaussian process
regression or Ridge regression) are computationally complex
and are unable to process very high-dimensional features, they
used random forest as the regression model whose tree structure
is intrinsically fast and scalable. Unlike traditional approaches
to random forest construction, they embedded random projec-
tion in the tree nodes to combat the curse of dimensionality and
to introduce randomness in the tree construction.
3. CNN-based methods
The success of CNNs in numerous computer vision tasks has
inspired researchers to exploit their abilities for learning non-
linear functions from crowd images to their corresponding den-
sity maps or corresponding counts. A variety of CNN-based

5
Fig. 3: Categorization of existing CNN-based approaches.
methods have been proposed in the literature. We broadly cat-
egorize these methods based on property of the networks and
training approach as shown in Fig. 3. Based on the property
of the networks, we classify the approaches into the following
categories:
• Basic CNNs: Approaches that involve basic CNN layers
in their networks fall into this category. These methods are
amongst initial deep learning approaches for crowd count-
ing and density estimation.
• Scale-aware models: The basic CNN-based approaches
evolved into more sophisticated models that were ro-
bust to variations in scale. This robustness is achieved
through diﬀerent techniques such as multi-column or
multi-resolution architectures.
• Context-aware models: Another set of approaches at-
tempted to incorporate local and global contextual infor-
mation present in the image into the CNN framework for
achieving lower estimation errors.
• Multi-task frameworks: Motivated by the success of
multi-task learning for various computer vision tasks, var-
ious approaches have been developed to combine crowd
counting and estimation along with other tasks such as
foreground-background subtraction and crowd velocity es-
timation.
In an yet another categorization, we classify the CNN-based
approaches based on the inference methodology into the fol-
lowing two categories:
• Patch-based inference: In this approach, the CNNs are
trained using patches cropped from the input images. Dif-
ferent methods use diﬀerent crop sizes. During the pre-
diction phase, a sliding window is run over the test image
and predictions are obtained for each window and ﬁnally
aggregated to obtain total count in the image.
• Whole image-based inference: Methods in this category
perform a whole-image based inference. These methods
avoid computationally expensive sliding windows.
Table 1 presents a categorization of various CNN-based crowd
counting methods based on their network property and infer-
ence process.
3.1. Survey of CNN-based methods
In this section, we review various CNN-based crowd count-
ing and density estimation methods along with their merits and
Table 1: Categorization of existing CNN-based approaches.
Category
Method
Network
property
Inference
process
Fu et al. [33]
Basic
Patch-based
Wang et al. [98]
Basic
Patch-based
Zhang et al. [107]
Multi-task
Patch-based
Boominathan et al. [11]
Scale-aware
Patch-based
Zhang et al. [111]
Scale-aware
Whole image-based
Walach and Wolf [97]
Basic
Patch-based
Onoro et al. [70]
Scale-aware
Patch-based
Shang et al. [85]
Context-aware
Whole image-based
Sheng et al. [89]
Context-aware
Whole image-based
Kumagai et al. [50]
Scale-aware
Patch-based
Marsden et al. [65]
Scale-aware
Whole image-based
Mundhenk et al. [69]
Basic
Patch-based
Artetta et al. [4]
Multi-task
Patch-based
Zhao et al. [113]
Multi-task
Patch-based
Sindagi et al. [92]
Multi-task
Whole image-based
Sam et al. [82]
Scale-aware
Patch-based
Kang et al. [113]
Basic
Patch-based
drawbacks.
Wang et al. [98] and Fu et al. [33] were among the ﬁrst ones
to apply CNNs for the task of crowd density estimation. Wang
et al. proposed an end-to-end deep CNN regression model for
counting people from images in extremely dense crowds. They
adopted AlexNet network [49] in their architecture where the
ﬁnal fully connected layer of 4096 neurons is replaced with a
single neuron layer for predicting the count. Besides, in order
to reduce false responses background like buildings and trees
in the images, training data is augmented with additional neg-
ative samples whose ground truth count is set as zero. In a
diﬀerent approach, Fu et al. proposed to classify the image
into one of the ﬁve classes: very high density, high density,
medium density, low density and very low density instead of
estimating density maps. Multi-stage ConvNet from the works
of Sermanet et al. [84] was adopted for better shift, scale and
distortion invariance. In addition, they used a cascade of two
classiﬁers to achieve boosting in which the ﬁrst one speciﬁcally
samples misclassiﬁed images whereas the second one reclassi-
ﬁes rejected samples.
Zhang et al. [107] analyzed existing methods to identify that
their performance reduces drastically when applied to a new
scene that is diﬀerent from the training dataset. To overcome
this issue, they proposed to learn a mapping from images to
crowd counts and to adapt this mapping to new target scenes
for cross-scene counting. To achieve this, they ﬁrst learned
their network by alternatively training on two objective func-
tions: crowd count and density estimation which are related ob-
jectives. By alternatively optimizing over these objective func-
tions one is able to obtain better local optima. In order to adapt
this network to a new scene, the network is ﬁne-tuned using
training samples that are similar to the target scene. It is im-
portant to note that the network is adapted to new target scenes
without any extra label information. The overview of their ap-
proach is shown in Fig. 4. Also, in contrast to earlier methods

6
that use the sum of Gaussian kernels centered on the locations
of objects, a new method for generating ground truth density
map is proposed that incorporates perspective information. In
doing so, the network is able to perform perspective normaliza-
tion thereby achieving robustness to scale and perspective vari-
ations. Additionally, they introduced a new dataset for the pur-
pose of evaluating cross-scene crowd counting. The network
is evaluated for cross-scene crowd counting as well as single
scene crowd counting and superior results are demonstrated for
both scenarios.
Fig. 4: Overview of cross scene crowd counting proposed by Zhang et
al. [107].
Inspired by the success of cross-scene crowd counting [107],
Walach and Wolf [97] performed layered boosting and selective
sampling. Layered boosting involves iteratively adding CNN
layers to the model such that every new layer is trained to es-
timate the residual error of the earlier prediction. For instance,
after the ﬁrst CNN layer is trained, the second CNN layer is
trained on the diﬀerence between the estimation and ground
truth. This layered boosting approach is based on the notion
of Gradient Boosting Machines (GBM) [32] which are a subset
of powerful ensemble techniques. An overview of their boost-
ing approach is presented in Fig. 5. The other contribution
made by the authors is the use of sample selection algorithm
to improve the training process by reducing the eﬀect of low
quality samples such as trivial samples or outliers. According
to the authors, the samples that are correctly classiﬁed early on
are trivial samples. Presenting such samples for training even
after the networks have learned to classify them tends to intro-
duce bias in the network for such samples, thereby aﬀecting its
generalization performance. Another source of training ineﬃ-
ciency is the presence of outliers such as mislabeled samples.
Apart from aﬀecting the network’s performance, these samples
increase the training time. To overcome this issue, such sam-
ples are eliminated out of the training process for a number of
epochs. The authors demonstrated that their method reduces
the count estimation error by 20% to 30% over existing state-
of-the-art methods at that time on diﬀerent datasets.
In contrast to the above methods that use patch-based train-
ing, Shang et al. [85] proposed an end-to-end count estimation
method using CNNs (Fig. 6). Instead of dividing the image
into patches, their method takes the entire image as input and
directly outputs the ﬁnal crowd count. As a result, computa-
tions on overlapping regions are shared by combining multiple
Fig. 5: Overview of learning to count using boosting by Walach and
Wolf [97].
stages of processing leading to a reduction of complexity. The
network simultaneously learns to estimate local counts and can
be viewed as learning a patch level counting model which en-
ables faster training. By doing so, contextual information is
incorporated into the network, enabling it to ignore background
noises and achieve better performance. The network is com-
posed of three parts: (1) Pre-trained GoogLeNet model [93],
(2) Long-short time memory (LSTM) decoders for local count,
and (3) Fully connected layers for the ﬁnal count. The net-
work takes an image as input and computes high-dimensional
CNN feature maps using the GoogleNet network. Local blocks
in these high-dimensional features are decoded into local count
using a LSTM unit. A set of fully connected layers after the
LSTM unit map the local counts into global count. The two
counting objectives are jointly optimized during training.
Fig. 6: Overview of the end-to-end counting method proposed by
Shang et al. [85]. GoogLeNet is used to compute high-dimensional
features which are further decoded into local counts using LSTM units.
In an eﬀort to capture semantic information in the image,
Boominathan et al.
[11] combined deep and shallow fully
convolutional networks to predict the density map for a given
crowd image. The combination of two networks enables one to
build a model robust to non-uniform scaling of crowd and vari-
ations in perspective. Furthermore, an extensive augmentation
of the training dataset is performed in two ways. Patches from
the multi-scale image representation are sampled to make the
system robust to scale variations. Fig. 7 shows overview of this
method.
In another approach, Zhang et al. [111] proposed a multi-
column based architecture (MCNN) for images with arbitrary

7
Fig. 7: Overview of counting method proposed by Boominathan et al.
[11]. A deep network is used in combination with a shallow network
to address scale variations across images.
crowd density and arbitrary perspective. Inspired by the suc-
cess of multi-column networks for image recognition [24], the
proposed method ensures robustness to large variation in ob-
ject scales by constructing a network that comprises of three
columns corresponding to ﬁlters with receptive ﬁelds of dif-
ferent sizes (large, medium, small) as shown in Fig. 8. These
diﬀerent columns are designed to cater to diﬀerent object scales
present in the images. Additionally, a new method for generat-
ing ground truth crowd density maps is proposed. In contrast to
existing methods that either use sum of Gaussian kernels with
a ﬁxed variance or perspective maps, Zhang et al. proposed
to take into account perspective distortion by estimating spread
parameter of the Gaussian kernel based on the size of the head
of each person within the image. However, it is impractical to
estimate head sizes and their underlying relationship with den-
sity maps. Instead they used an important property observed
in high density crowd images that the head size is related to
distance between the centers of two neighboring persons. The
spread parameter for each person is data-adaptively determined
based on its average distance to its neighbors. Note that the
ground truth density maps created using this technique incorpo-
rate distortion information without the use of perspective maps.
Finally, considering that existing crowd counting datasets do
not cater to all the challenging situations encountered in real
world scenarios, a new ShanghaiTech crowd datasets is con-
structed. This new dataset includes 1198 images with about
330,000 annotated heads.
Fig. 8: Overview of single image crowd counting via multi-column
network by Zhang et al. [111].
Similar to the above approach, Onoro and Sastre [70] devel-
oped a scale aware counting model called Hydra CNN that is
able to estimate object densities in a variety of crowded sce-
narios without any explicit geometric information of the scene.
First, a deep fully-convolutional neural network (which they
call as Counting CNN) with six convolutional layers is em-
ployed. Motivated by the observation of earlier work [107, 61]
that incorporating perspective information for geometric cor-
rection of the input features results in better accuracy, geometric
information is incorporated into the Counting CNN (CCNN).
To this eﬀect, they developed Hydra CNN that learns a multi-
scale non-linear regression model. As shown in Fig. 9 the net-
work consists of 3 heads and a body with each head learning
features for a particular scale. Each head of the Hydra-CNN
is constructed using the CCNN model whose outputs are con-
catenated and fed to the body. The body consists of a set of
two fully-connected layers followed by a rectiﬁed linear unit
(ReLu), a dropout layer and a ﬁnal fully connected layer to es-
timate the object density map. While the diﬀerent heads extract
image descriptors at diﬀerent scales, the body learns a high-
dimensional representation that fuses the multi-scale informa-
tion provided by the heads. This network design of Hydra CNN
is inspired by the work of Li et al. [53]. Finally, the network
is trained with pyramid of image patches extracted at multi-
ple scales. The authors demonstrated through their experiments
that the Hydra CNN is able to perform successfully in scenarios
and datasets with signiﬁcant variations in the scene.
Fig. 9: Overview of Hydra-CNN by Onoro et al. [70].
Instead of training all regressors of a multi-column network
[111] on all the input patches, Sam et al. [82] argue that better
performance is obtained by training regressors with a particular
set of training patches by leveraging variation of crowd density
within an image. To this end, they proposed a switching CNN
that cleverly selects an optimal regressor suited for a particular
input patch. As shown in Fig. 10, the proposed network con-
sists of multiple independent regressors similar to multi-column
network [111] with diﬀerent receptive ﬁelds and a switch clas-
siﬁer. The switch classiﬁer is trained to select the optimal re-
gressor for a particular input patch. Independent CNN crowd
density regressors are trained on patches sampled from a grid
in a given crowd scene. The switch classiﬁer and the indepen-
dent regressors are alternatively trained. The authors describe
multiple stages of training their network. First, the independent

8
regressors are pretrained on image patches to minimize the Eu-
clidean distance between the estimated density map and ground
truth. This is followed by a diﬀerential training stage where, the
count error is factored in to improve the counting performance
by back-propagating a regressor with the minimum count error
for a given training patch. After training the multiple regres-
sors, a switch classiﬁer based on VGG-16 architecture [91] is
trained to select an optimal regressor for accurate counting. Fi-
nally, the switch classiﬁer and CNN regressors are co-adapted
in the coupled training stage.
Fig. 10: Overview of Switching CNN by Sam et al. [82].
While the above methods concentrated on incorporating
scale information in the network, Sheng et al.
in [89] pro-
posed to integrate semantic information by learning locality-
aware feature sets. Noting that earlier methods that use hand-
crafted features ignored key semantic and spatial information,
the authors proposed a new image representation which incor-
porates semantic attributes as well as spatial cues to improve
the discriminative power of feature representations. They de-
ﬁned semantic attributes at the pixel level and learned seman-
tic feature maps via deep CNN. The spatial information in the
image is encoded using locality-aware features in the semantic
attribute feature map space. The locality-aware features (LAF)
are built on the idea of spatial pyramids on neighboring patches
thereby encoding spatial context and local information. The lo-
cal descriptors from adjacent cells are then encoded into image
representations using weighted VLAD encoding method.
Similar to [111, 70], Kumagai et al. [50], based on the ob-
servation that a single predictor is insuﬃcient to appropriately
predict the count in the presence of large appearance changes,
proposed a Mixture of CNNs (MoCNN) that are specialized to
a diﬀerent scene appearances. As shown in Fig. 11, the archi-
tecture consists of a mixture of expert CNNs and a gating CNN
that adaptively selects the appropriate CNN among the experts
according to the appearance of the input image. For prediction,
the expert CNNs predict crowd count in the image while the
gating CNN predicts appropriate probabilities for each of the
expert CNNs. These probabilities are further used as weighting
factors to compute the weighted average of the counts predicted
by all the expert CNNs.
Fig. 11: Overview of MoC (Mixture of CNN) for crowd counting by
Kumagai et al. [50].
Motivated by the success of scale aware models [111, 70],
Marsden et al. [65] proposed to incorporate scale into the mod-
els with much less number of model parameters. Observing that
the earlier scale aware models [111, 70] are diﬃcult to optimize
and are computationally complex, Marsden et al. [65] proposed
a single column fully convolutional network where the scale in-
formation is incorporated into the model using a simple yet ef-
fective multi-scale averaging step during prediction without any
increase in the model parameters. The method addresses the is-
sues of scale and perspective changes by feeding multiple scales
of test image into the network during prediction phase. The
crowd count is estimated for each scale and the ﬁnal count is
obtained by taking an average of all the estimates. Additionally,
a new training set augmentation scheme is developed to reduce
redundancy among the training samples. In contrast to the ear-
lier methods that use randomly cropped patches with high de-
gree of overlap, the training set in this work is constructed using
the four image quadrants as well as their horizontal ﬂips ensur-
ing no overlap. This technique avoids potential overﬁt when the
network is continuously exposed to the same set of pixels dur-
ing training, thereby improving the generalization performance
of the network. In addition, the generalization performance of
the proposed method is studied by measuring cross dataset per-
formance.
Inspired by the superior results achieved by simultaneous
learning of related tasks [76, 104], Sindagi et al. [92] and Mars-
den et al. [66] explored multi-task learning to boost individual
task performance. Marsden et al. [66] proposed a Resnet-18
[37] based architecture for simultaneous crowd counting, vi-
olent behaviour detection and crowd density level classiﬁca-
tion. The network consists of initial 5 convolutional layers of
Resnet18 including batch normalisation layers and skip connec-
tions form the primary module. The convolutional layers are
followed by a set of task speciﬁc layers. Finally, sum of all the
losses corresponding to diﬀerent tasks is minimized. Addition-
ally, the authors constructed a new 100 image dataset speciﬁ-

9
Fig. 12: Overview of Fully Convolutional Network for crowd counting
by Marsden et al. [65].
cally designed for multi-task learning of crowd count and be-
haviour. In a diﬀerent approach, Sindagi et al. [92] proposed a
cascaded CNN architecture to incorporate learning of a high-
level prior to boost the density estimation performance. In-
spired by [18], the proposed network simultaneously learns to
classify the crowd count into various density levels and estimate
density map (as shown in Fig. 13). Classifying crowd count
into various levels is equivalent to coarsely estimating the to-
tal count in the image thereby incorporating a high-level prior
into the density estimation network. This enables the layers in
the network to learn globally relevant discriminative features.
Additionally, in contrast to most recent work, they make use
of transposed convolutional layers to generate high resolution
density maps.
Fig. 13: Overview of Cascaded Multi-task CNN by Sindagi et al. [92].
In a recent work, Kang et al. [45] explored maps gener-
ated by density estimation methods for the purpose of vari-
ous crowd analysis tasks such as counting, detection and track-
ing. They performed a detailed analysis of the eﬀect of using
full-resolution density maps on the performance of these tasks.
They demonstrated through their experiments that full reso-
lution density maps improved the performance of localization
tasks such as detection and tracking. Two diﬀerent approaches
are considered for generating full-resolution maps. In the ﬁrst
approach, a sliding window based CNN regressor is used for
pixel-wise density prediction. In the second approach, Fully
Convolutional Networks [60] along with skip connections are
used to learning a non-linear mapping between input image and
the corresponding density map.
In a slightly diﬀerent application context of counting, Mund-
henk et al. [69] and Arteta et al. [4] proposed to count diﬀerent
types of objects such as cars and penguins respectively. Mund-
henk et al. [69] addressed the problem of automated counting
of automobiles from satellite/aerial platforms. Their primary
contribution is the creation of a large diverse set of cars from
overhead images. Along with the large dataset, they present a
deep CNN-based network to recognize the number of cars in
patches. The network is trained in a classiﬁcation setting where
the output of the network is a class that is indicative of the num-
ber of objects in the input image. Also, they incorporated con-
textual information by including additional regions around the
cars in the training patches. Three diﬀerent networks based on
AlexNet [49], GoogLeNet [93] and ResNet [37] with Inception
are evaluated. For a diﬀerent application of counting penguins
in images, Arteta et al. [4] proposed a deep multi-task archi-
tecture for accurate counting even in the presence of labeling
errors. The network is trained in a multi-task setting where, the
tasks of foreground-background subtraction and uncertainty es-
timation along with counting are jointly learned. The authors
demonstrated that the joint learning especially helps in learning
a counting model that is robust to labeling errors. Additionally,
they exploited scale variations and count variability across the
annotations to incorporate scale information of the object and
prediction of annotation diﬃculty respectively into the model.
The network was evaluated on a newly created Penguin dataset.
Zhao et al. addressed a higher level cognitive task of count-
ing people that cross a line in [113]. Though the task is a video-
based application, it comprises of a CNN-based model that is
trained with pixel-level supervision maps similar to single im-
age crowd density estimation methods, making it a relevant ap-
proach to be included in this article. Their method consists of
a two-phase training scheme (as shown in Fig. 14) that decom-
poses original counting problem into two sub-problems: esti-
mating crowd density map and crowd velocity map where the
two tasks share the initial set of layers enabling them to learn
more eﬀectively. The estimated crowd density and crowd ve-
locity maps are then multiplied element-wise to generate the
crowd counting maps. Additionally, they contributed a large-
scale dataset for evaluating crossing-line crowd counting al-
gorithms, which includes 5 diﬀerent scenes, 3,100 annotated
frames and 5,900 annotated pedestrians.
4. Discussion
With a variety of methods discussed in Section 3, we analyze
various advantages and disadvantages of the broad approaches
followed by these methods in this section.
Zhang et al. [107] were among the ﬁrst ones to address the
problem of adapting models to new unlabelled datasets using
a simple and eﬀective method based on ﬁnding similar patches

10
Fig. 14: Overview of the method proposed by Zhao et al. [113] for
counting people crossing a line.
across datasets. However, their method is heavily dependent
on accurate perspective maps which may not be necessarily
available for all the datasets. Additionally, the use of 72×72
sized patches for training and evaluation ignores global context
which is necessary for accurate estimation of count. Walach
et al. [97] successfully addressed training ineﬃciencies in ear-
lier methods using a layered boosting approach and a simple
sample selection method.
However, similar to Zhang et al.
[107], their method involves patch-based training and evalua-
tion resulting in loss of global context information along with
ineﬃciency during evaluation due to the use of a sliding win-
dow approach. Additionally, these methods tend to ignore scale
variance among the dataset assuming that their models will im-
plicitly learn the invariance.
In an eﬀort to explicitly model scale invariance, several
methods involving combination of networks were proposed
([111, 70, 82, 50, 11]). While these methods demonstrated sig-
niﬁcant improvements in the performance using multiple col-
umn networks and a combination of deep and shallow networks,
the invariance achieved is limited by the number of columns
present in the network and receptive ﬁeld sizes which are cho-
sen based on the scales present in the dataset. Additionally,
these methods do not explicitly model global context informa-
tion which is crucial for a task such as crowd counting. In a
diﬀerent approach, Marsden et al. [65] attempt to address the
scale issue by performing a multi-scale averaging during the
prediction phase. While being simple and eﬀective, it results in
an ineﬃcient inference stage. Additionally, these methods do
not explicitly encode global context present in an image which
can be crucial for improving the count performance. To this
end, few approaches model local and global context [89, 85] by
considering key spatial and semantic information present in the
image.
In an entirely diﬀerent approach, few methods [66, 92] take
advantage of multi-task learning and incorporate high-level pri-
ors into the network.
For instance, Sindagi et al.
[92] si-
multaneously learn density estimation and a high-level prior
in the form of crowd count classiﬁcation. While they demon-
strated high performance gain by learning an additional task of
crowd density level classiﬁcation, the number of density levels
is dataset dependent and it needs to be carefully chosen based
on the density levels present in the dataset.
5. Datasets and results
A variety of datasets have been created over the last few years
driving researchers to create models with better generalization
abilities. While the earlier datasets usually contain low den-
sity crowd images, the most recent ones focus on high den-
sity crowd thus posing numerous challenges such as scale vari-
ations, clutter and severe occlusion. The creation of these large
scale datasets has motivated recent approaches to develop meth-
ods that cater to such challenges. In this section, we review ﬁve
key datasets [15, 20, 41, 107, 111] followed by a discussion
on the results of CNN-based approaches and recent traditional
methods that were not included in the earlier surveys.
5.1. Datasets
UCSD dataset: The UCSD dataset [15] was among the
ﬁrst datasets to be created for counting people. The dataset
was collected from a video camera at a pedestrian walkway.
The dataset consists of 2000 frames of size 238×158 from a
video sequence along with ground truth annotations of each
pedestrian in every ﬁfth frame. For the rest of the frames, linear
interpolation is used to create the annotations. A region-of-
interest is also provided to ignore unnecessary moving objects
such as trees. The dataset contains a total of 49,885 pedestrian
instances and it is split into training and test set. While the train-
ing set contains frames with indices 600 to 1399, the test set
contains the remaining 1200 images. This dataset has relatively
low density crowd with an average of around 15 people in a
frame and since the dataset was collected from a single location,
there is no variation in the scene perspective across images.
Mall dataset: Considering little variation in the scene type
in the UCSD dataset, Chen et al.
in [20] collected a new
Mall dataset with diverse illumination conditions and crowd
densities.
The dataset was collected using a surveillance
camera installed in a shopping mall.
Along with having
various density levels, it also has diﬀerent activity patterns
(static and moving crowds). Additionally, the scene contained
in the dataset has severe perspective distortion resulting in
large variations in size and appearance of objects. The dataset
also presents the challenge of severe occlusions caused by
the scene objects, e.g.stall, indoor plants along the walking
path.
The video sequence in the dataset consists of 2000
frames of size 320×240 with 6000 instances of labelled
pedestrians.
The ﬁrst 800 frames are used for training and
the remaining 1200 frames are used for evaluation. In com-
parison to the UCSD dataset, the Mall dataset has relatively
higher crowd density images.
However, both the datasets
do not have any variation in the scene perspective across im-
ages since they are a part of a single continuous video sequence.
UCF CC 50 dataset: The UCF CC 50 [41] is the ﬁrst truly
challenging dataset constructed to include a wide range of den-
sities and diverse scenes with varying perspective distortion.
The dataset was created from publicly available web images.
In order to capture diversity in the scene types, the authors
collected images with diﬀerent tags such as concerts, protests,
stadiums and marathons.
It contains a total of 50 images

11
Table 2: Summary of various datasets.
Dataset
No. of images
Resolution
Min
Ave
Max
Total count
UCSD [15]
2000
158x238
11
25
46
49,885
Mall [20]
2000
320x240
13
-
53
62,325
UCF CC 50 [41]
50
Varied
94
1279
4543
63,974
WorldExpo ’10 [106, 107]
3980
576x720
1
50
253
199,923
ShanghaiTech Part A [111]
482
Varied
33
501
3139
241,677
ShanghaiTech Part B [111]
716
768x1024
9
123
578
88,488
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
Fig. 15: Sample images from various datasets. (a) UCSD [15] (b) Mall [20] (c) UCF CC 50 [41] (d) WorldExpo ’10 [107] (e) Shanghai Tech Part
A [111] (f) SHanghai Tech Part B [111]. It can be observed that in the case of UCSD and Mall dataset , the images come from the same video
sequence providing no variation in perspective across images.
of varying resolutions with an average of 1280 individuals
per image. A total of 63075 individuals were labelled in the
entire dataset. The number of individuals varies from 94 to
4543 indicating a large variation across the images. The only
drawback of this dataset is that only a limited number of images
are available for training and evaluation. Considering the low
number of images, the authors deﬁned a cross-validation
protocol for training and testing their approach where the
dataset was divided into sets of 10 and a ﬁve fold cross-
validation is performed. The challenges posed by this dataset
are so enormous that even the results of recent CNN-based
state-of-the-art approaches on this dataset are far from optimal.
WorldExpo ’10 dataset: Since some of the earlier approaches
and datasets focussed primarily on single scene counting,
Zhang et al.
[107] introduced a dataset for the purpose of
cross-scene crowd counting. The authors attempted to perform
a data-driven cross-scene crowd counting for which they col-
lected a new large-scale dataset that includes 1132 annotated
video sequences captured by 108 surveillance cameras, all from
Shanghai 2010 WorldExpo event. Large diversity in the scene
types is ensured by collecting videos from cameras having
disjoint bird views.
The dataset consists of a total of 3980
frames of size 576 × 720 with 199923 labelled pedestrians.
The dataset is split into two parts: training set consisting of
1,127 one-minute long video sequences from 103 scenes and

12
test set consisting of 5 one-hour long video sequences from
5 diﬀerent scenes.
Each test scene consists of 120 labelled
frames with the crowd count varying from 1 to 220. Though an
attempt is made to capture diverse scenes with varying density
levels, the diversity is limited to only 5 scenes in the test
set and the maximum crowd count is limited to 220. Hence,
the dataset is not suﬃcient enough for evaluating approaches
designed for extremely dense crowds in a variety of scenes.
Shanghai Tech dataset: Zhang et al. [111] introduced a new
large-scale crowd counting dataset consisting of 1198 images
with 330,165 annotated heads. The dataset is among the largest
ones in terms of the number of annotated people and it contains
two parts: Part A and Part B. Part A consists of 482 images that
are randomly chosen from the Internet whereas Part B consists
of images taken from the streets of metropolitan areas in Shang-
hai. Part A has considerably larger density images as compared
to Part B. Both the parts are further divided into training and
evaluation sets. The training and test of Part A has 300 and 182
images, respectively, whereas that of Part B has 400 and 316
images, respectively. The dataset successfully attempts to cre-
ate a challenging dataset with diverse scene types and varying
density levels. However, the number of images for various den-
sity levels are not uniform making the training and evaluation
biased towards low density levels. Nevertheless, the complex-
ities present in this dataset such as varying scales and perspec-
tive distortion has created new opportunities for more complex
CNN network designs.
Sample images from the ﬁve datasets are shown in Fig. 15.
The datasets are also summarized in Table 2. It can be observed
that the UCSD and the Mall dataset have relatively low density
images and typically focus on single scene type. In contrast, the
other datasets have signiﬁcant variations in the density levels
along with diﬀerent perspectives across images.
5.2. Discussion on results
Results of the recent traditional approaches along with CNN-
based methods are tabulated in Table 3. The count estimation
errors are reported directly from the respective original works.
The following standard metrics are used to compare diﬀerent
methods:
MAE = 1
N
N
X
i=1
|yi −y′
i|,
(1)
MS E =
v
u
t
1
N
N
X
i=1
|yi −y′
i|2,
(2)
where MAE is mean absolute error, MSE is mean squared error,
N is the number of test samples, yi is the ground truth count and
y′
i is the estimated count corresponding to the ith sample. We
make the following observations regarding the results:
• In general, CNN-based methods outperform the traditional
approaches across all datasets.
• While the CNN-based methods are especially eﬀective in
large density crowds with a diverse scene conditions, the
traditional approaches suﬀer from high error rates in such
scenarios.
• Among the CNN-based methods, most performance im-
provement is achieved by scale-aware and context-aware
models. It can be observed from Table 3 that a reduction
in count error is largely driven by the increase in the com-
plexity of CNN models (due to addition of context and
scale information).
• While the multi-column CNN architecture [111] achieves
the state-of-the-art results on 3 datasets: UCSD, World-
Expo ’10 and ShanghaiTech, the CNN-boosting approach
by [97] achieves the best results on the Mall dataset. The
best results on the UCF CC 50 dataset are achieved by
joint local and global count approach [85] and Hydra-CNN
[70].
• The work in [97] suggests that layered boosting can
achieve performances that are comparable to scale aware
models.
• The improvements obtained by selective sampling in [98]
and [97] suggests that it helps to obtain unbiased perfor-
mance.
• Whole image-based methods such as Zhang et al. [111]
and Shang et al. [85] are less computationally complex
from the prediction point of view and they have proved to
achieve better results over patch-based techniques.
• Finally, techniques such as layered boosting and selective
sampling [70, 99] not only improve the estimation error
but also reduce the training time signiﬁcantly.
(a)
(b)
(c)
Fig. 16: Results of Zhang et al. [111] on ShanghaiTech dataset. (a)
Input image(b) Ground-truth density map (c) Estimated density maps.
It can be observed that though the method is able to accurate estimation
of crowd count, the estimated density maps are of poor quality.
6. Future research directions
Based on the analysis of various methods and results from
Section 3 and 5 and the trend of other developments in com-
puter vision, we believe that CNN-based deeper architectures
will dominate further research in the ﬁeld of crowd counting
and density estimation. We make the following observations
regarding future trends in research on crowd counting:

13
Table 3: Comparison of results on various datasets. The CNN-based approaches provide signiﬁcant improvements over traditional approaches
that rely on hand-crafted representations. Further, among the CNN-based methods, scale aware and context aware approaches tend to achieve
lower count error.
Dataset
UCSD
Mall
UCF CC 50
WorldExpo
’10
Shanghai
Tech-A
Shanghai
Tech-B
Approach
type
Method
MAE
MSE
MAE
MSE
MAE
MSE
MAE
MSE
MAE
MSE
MAE
MSE
Traditional approaches
Multi-source multi-scale
Idrees et al. [41]
468.0
590.3
Cumulative Attributes
Chen et al. [19]
2.07
6.86
3.43
17.07
Density learning
Lempitsky et al. [52]
1.7
493.4
487.1
Count forest
Pham et al. [75]
1.61
4.40
2.5
10.0
Exemplar density
Wang et al. [99]
1.98
1.82
2.74
2.10
Random projection forest
Xu et al. [102]
1.90
6.01
3.22
15.5
CNN-based approaches
Cross-scene
Zhang et al. [107]
1.60
3.31
467.0
498.5
12.9
181.8
277.7
32.0
49.8
Deep + shallow
Boominathan et al. [11]
452.5
M-CNN
Zhang et al. [111]
1.07
1.35
377.6
509.1
11.6
110.2
173.2
26.4
41.3
CNN-boosting
Walach and Wolf [97]
1.10
2.01
364.4
Hydra-CNN
Onoro et al. [70]
333.7
425.2
Joint local & global count
Shang et al. [85]
270.3
11.7
MoCNN
Kumagai et al. [50]
2.75
13.4
361.7
493.3
FCN
Marsden et al. [65]
338.6
424.5
126.5
173.5
23.76
33.12
CNN-pixel
Kang et al. [45]
1.12
2.06
406.2
404.0
13.4
Weighted V-LAD
Sheng et al. [89]
2.86
13.0
2.41
9.12
Cascaded-MTL
Sindagi et al. [92]
322.8
341.4
101.3
152.4
20.0
31.1
Switching-CNN
Sam et al. [82]
1.62
2.10
318.1
439.2
9.4
90.4
135.0
21.6
33.4
Fig. 17: Distribution of crowd counts in ShanghaiTech dataset. It can
be observed that the dataset is highly imbalanced.
1. Given the requirement of large datasets for training
deep networks, collection of large scale datasets (espe-
cially for extremely dense crowds) is essential. Though
many datasets exist currently, only one of them (The
UCF CC 50 [41]) caters to large density crowds. How-
ever, the size of the dataset is too small for training deeper
networks. Though Shanghai Tech [111]) attempts to cap-
ture large density crowds, the number of images per den-
sity level is non-uniform with a large number of images
available for low density levels and very few samples for
high density levels (as shown in Fig. 17).
2. Considering the diﬃculty of training deep networks for
new scenes, it would be important to explore how to lever-
age from models trained on existing sources.
Most of
the existing methods retrain their models on a new scene
and it is impractical to do so in real world scenarios as it
would be expensive to obtain annotations for every new
scene. Zhang et al. [107] attempted to address this is-
sue by performing a data driven training without the need
of labelled data for new scenes. In an another approach,
Liu et al. [59] considered the problem of transfer learn-
ing for crowd counting. A model adaptation technique for
Gaussian process counting model was introduced. Con-
sidering the source model as a prior and the target dataset
as a set of observations, the components are combined into
a predictive distribution that captures information in both
the source and target datasets. However, the idea of trans-
fer learning or domain adaptation [73] for crowd scenes is
relatively unexplored and is a nascent area of research.
3. Most crowd counting and density estimation methods have
been designed for and evaluated either only on single im-
ages or videos. Combining the techniques developed sep-
arately for these methods is a non-trivial task. Develop-
ment of low-latency methods that can operate in real-time
for counting people in crowds from videos is another in-
teresting problem to be addressed in future.
4. Another key issue ignored by earlier research is that the
quality of estimated crowd density maps. Many existing
CNN-based approaches have a number of max-pooling
layers in their networks compelling them to regress on
down-sampled density maps. Also, most methods opti-
mize over traditional Euclidean loss which is known to

14
have certain disadvantages [43].
Regressing on down-
sampled density maps using Euclidean loss results in low
quality density maps. Fig. 16 demonstrates the results
obtained using the state-of-the-art method [111]. It can
be observed that though accurate count estimates are ob-
tained, the quality of the density maps is poor. As a re-
sult, these poor quality maps adversely aﬀect other higher
level cognition tasks which depend on them. Recent work
on style-transfer [108], image de-raining [109] and image-
to-image translation [42] have demonstrated promising re-
sults from the use of additional loss functions such as ad-
versarial loss and perceptual loss. In principle, density es-
timation can be considered as an image-to-image transla-
tion problem and it would be interesting to see the eﬀect of
these recent loss functions. Generating high quality den-
sity maps along with low count estimation error would be
another important issue to be addressed in the future.
5. Finally, considering advancements by scale-aware [111,
70] and context-aware models [85], we believe designing
networks to incorporate additional contextual and scale in-
formation will enable further progress.
7. Conclusion
This article presented an overview of recent advances in
CNN-based methods for crowd counting and density estima-
tion. In particular, we summarized various methods for crowd
counting into traditional approaches (that use hand-crafted
features) and CNN-based approaches.
The CNN-based ap-
proaches are further categorized based on the training process
and the network property. Obviously all the literature on crowd
counting cannot be covered, hence, we have chosen a represen-
tative subset of the latest approaches for a detailed analysis and
review. We also reviewed the results demonstrated by various
traditional and CNN-based approaches to conclude that CNN-
based methods are more adept at handling large density crowds
with variations in object scales and scene perspective. Addi-
tionally, we observed that incorporating scale and contextual in-
formation in the CNN-based methods drastically improves the
estimation error. Finally, we identiﬁed some of the most com-
pelling challenges and issues that confront research in crowd
counting and density estimation using computer vision and ma-
chine leaning approaches.
Acknowledgement This work was supported by US Oﬃce of
Naval Research (ONR) Grant YIP N00014-16-1-3134.
References
[1] Abdelghany, A., Abdelghany, K., Mahmassani, H., Alhalabi, W., 2014.
Modeling framework for optimal evacuation of large-scale crowded
pedestrian facilities.
European Journal of Operational Research 237,
1105–1118.
[2] Al-Kodmany, K., 2013. Crowd management and urban design: New
scientiﬁc approaches. Urban Design International 18, 282–295.
[3] Almeida, J.E., Rosseti, R.J., Coelho, A.L., 2013.
Crowd simulation
modeling applied to emergency and evacuation simulations using multi-
agent systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:1303.4692 .
[4] Arteta, C., Lempitsky, V., Zisserman, A., 2016. Counting in the wild, in:
European Conference on Computer Vision, Springer. pp. 483–498.
[5] Aveni, A.F., 1977. The not-so-lonely crowd: Friendship groups in col-
lective behavior. Sociometry , 96–99.
[6] Bandini, S., Gorrini, A., Vizzari, G., 2014. Towards an integrated ap-
proach to crowd analysis and crowd synthesis: A case study and ﬁrst
results. Pattern Recognition Letters 44, 16–29.
[7] Barr, J.R., Bowyer, K.W., Flynn, P.J., 2014. The eﬀectiveness of face
detection algorithms in unconstrained crowd scenes, in: Applications of
Computer Vision (WACV), 2014 IEEE Winter Conference on, IEEE. pp.
1020–1027.
[8] Benabbas, Y., Ihaddadene, N., Djeraba, C., 2010. Motion pattern extrac-
tion and event detection for automatic visual surveillance. EURASIP
Journal on Image and Video Processing 2011, 163682.
[9] Bernal, E.A., Li, Q., Loce, R.P., 2014. System and method for video-
based detection of drive-oﬀs and walk-oﬀs in vehicular and pedestrian
queues. US Patent App. 14/279,652.
[10] Blumer, H., 1951. Collective behavior. New outline of the principles of
sociology , 166–222.
[11] Boominathan, L., Kruthiventi, S.S., Babu, R.V., 2016. Crowdnet: A
deep convolutional network for dense crowd counting, in: Proceedings
of the 2016 ACM on Multimedia Conference, ACM. pp. 640–644.
[12] Brostow, G.J., Cipolla, R., 2006. Unsupervised bayesian detection of
independent motion in crowds, in: 2006 IEEE Computer Society Con-
ference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR’06), IEEE.
pp. 594–601.
[13] Castellano, C., Fortunato, S., Loreto, V., 2009. Statistical physics of
social dynamics. Reviews of modern physics 81, 591.
[14] Chaker, R., Al Aghbari, Z., Junejo, I.N., 2017. Social network model
for crowd anomaly detection and localization. Pattern Recognition 61,
266–281.
[15] Chan, A.B., Liang, Z.S.J., Vasconcelos, N., 2008. Privacy preserving
crowd monitoring: Counting people without people models or tracking,
in: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2008. CVPR 2008. IEEE
Conference on, IEEE. pp. 1–7.
[16] Chan, A.B., Vasconcelos, N., 2009. Bayesian poisson regression for
crowd counting, in: 2009 IEEE 12th International Conference on Com-
puter Vision, IEEE. pp. 545–551.
[17] Chan, A.B., Vasconcelos, N., 2012. Counting people with low-level fea-
tures and bayesian regression. IEEE Transactions on Image Processing
21, 2160–2177.
[18] Chen, J.C., Kumar, A., Ranjan, R., Patel, V.M., Alavi, A., Chellappa,
R., 2016. A cascaded convolutional neural network for age estimation
of unconstrained faces, in: International Conference on BTAS, IEEE.
pp. 1–8.
[19] Chen, K., Gong, S., Xiang, T., Change Loy, C., 2013. Cumulative at-
tribute space for age and crowd density estimation, in: Proceedings of
the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, pp.
2467–2474.
[20] Chen, K., Loy, C.C., Gong, S., Xiang, T., 2012. Feature mining for lo-
calised crowd counting., in: European Conference on Computer Vision.
[21] Chen, S., Fern, A., Todorovic, S., 2015. Person count localization in
videos from noisy foreground and detections, in: Proceedings of the
IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pp.
1364–1372.
[22] Cheng, Z., Qin, L., Huang, Q., Yan, S., Tian, Q., 2014. Recognizing hu-
man group action by layered model with multiple cues. Neurocomputing
136, 124–135.
[23] Chow, W.K., Ng, C.M., 2008. Waiting time in emergency evacuation of
crowded public transport terminals. Safety Science 46, 844–857.
[24] Ciregan, D., Meier, U., Schmidhuber, J., 2012. Multi-column deep neu-
ral networks for image classiﬁcation, in: Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition (CVPR), 2012 IEEE Conference on, IEEE. pp. 3642–3649.
[25] Dalal, N., Triggs, B., 2005. Histograms of oriented gradients for human
detection, in: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2005. CVPR
2005. IEEE Computer Society Conference on, IEEE. pp. 886–893.
[26] Dollar, P., Wojek, C., Schiele, B., Perona, P., 2012. Pedestrian detec-
tion: An evaluation of the state of the art. IEEE transactions on pattern
analysis and machine intelligence 34, 743–761.
[27] Dong, L., Parameswaran, V., Ramesh, V., Zoghlami, I., 2007. Fast crowd
segmentation using shape indexing, in: 2007 IEEE 11th International
Conference on Computer Vision, IEEE. pp. 1–8.
[28] Enzweiler, M., Gavrila, D.M., 2009. Monocular pedestrian detection:
Survey and experiments. IEEE transactions on pattern analysis and ma-

15
chine intelligence 31, 2179–2195.
[29] Felzenszwalb, P.F., Girshick, R.B., McAllester, D., Ramanan, D., 2010.
Object detection with discriminatively trained part-based models. IEEE
transactions on pattern analysis and machine intelligence 32, 1627–
1645.
[30] Ferryman, J., Ellis, A.L., 2014. Performance evaluation of crowd image
analysis using the pets2009 dataset. Pattern Recognition Letters 44, 3–
15.
[31] French, G., Fisher, M., Mackiewicz, M., Needle, C., 2015. Convolu-
tional neural networks for counting ﬁsh in ﬁsheries surveillance video,
in: British Machine Vision Conference Workshop, BMVA Press.
[32] Friedman, J.H., 2001. Greedy function approximation: a gradient boost-
ing machine. Annals of statistics , 1189–1232.
[33] Fu, M., Xu, P., Li, X., Liu, Q., Ye, M., Zhu, C., 2015. Fast crowd den-
sity estimation with convolutional neural networks. Engineering Appli-
cations of Artiﬁcial Intelligence 43, 81–88.
[34] Gall, J., Yao, A., Razavi, N., Van Gool, L., Lempitsky, V., 2011. Hough
forests for object detection, tracking, and action recognition. IEEE trans-
actions on pattern analysis and machine intelligence 33, 2188–2202.
[35] Ge, W., Collins, R.T., 2009. Marked point processes for crowd counting,
in: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2009. CVPR 2009. IEEE
Conference on, IEEE. pp. 2913–2920.
[36] Gustafson, S., Arumugam, H., Kanyuk, P., Lorenzen, M., 2016. Mure:
fast agent based crowd simulation for vfx and animation, in: ACM SIG-
GRAPH 2016 Talks, ACM. p. 56.
[37] He, K., Zhang, X., Ren, S., Sun, J., 2016. Deep residual learning for im-
age recognition, in: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition, pp. 770–778.
[38] Henderson, L.F., 1971. The Statistics of Crowd Fluids 229, 381–383.
doi:10.1038/229381a0.
[39] Hu, Y., Chang, H., Nian, F., Wang, Y., Li, T., 2016. Dense crowd count-
ing from still images with convolutional neural networks. Journal of
Visual Communication and Image Representation 38, 530–539.
[40] Huang, L., Chen, T., Wang, Y., Yuan, H., 2015. Congestion detection
of pedestrians using the velocity entropy: A case study of love parade
2010 disaster. Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications 440,
200–209.
[41] Idrees, H., Saleemi, I., Seibert, C., Shah, M., 2013. Multi-source multi-
scale counting in extremely dense crowd images, in: Proceedings of
the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pp.
2547–2554.
[42] Isola, P., Zhu, J.Y., Zhou, T., Efros, A.A., 2017. Image-to-image transla-
tion with conditional adversarial networks, in: Proceedings of the IEEE
conference on computer vision and pattern recognition.
[43] Johnson, J., Alahi, A., Fei-Fei, L., 2016. Perceptual losses for real-
time style transfer and super-resolution, in: European Conference on
Computer Vision, Springer. pp. 694–711.
[44] Junior, J.C.S.J., Musse, S.R., Jung, C.R., 2010. Crowd analysis using
computer vision techniques. IEEE Signal Processing Magazine 27, 66–
77.
[45] Kang, D., Ma, Z., Chan, A.B., 2017. Beyond counting: Comparisons of
density maps for crowd analysis tasks-counting, detection, and tracking.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1705.10118 .
[46] Kang, K., Wang, X., 2014.
Fully convolutional neural networks for
crowd segmentation. arXiv preprint arXiv:1411.4464 .
[47] Klontz, J.C., Jain, A.K., 2013. A case study on unconstrained facial
recognition using the boston marathon bombings suspects. Michigan
State University, Tech. Rep 119, 1.
[48] Ko, T., 2008. A survey on behavior analysis in video surveillance for
homeland security applications, in: Applied Imagery Pattern Recogni-
tion Workshop, 2008. AIPR’08. 37th IEEE, IEEE. pp. 1–8.
[49] Krizhevsky, A., Sutskever, I., Hinton, G.E., 2012. Imagenet classiﬁca-
tion with deep convolutional neural networks, in: Advances in neural
information processing systems, pp. 1097–1105.
[50] Kumagai, S., Hotta, K., Kurita, T., 2017. Mixture of counting cnns:
Adaptive integration of cnns specialized to speciﬁc appearance for
crowd counting. arXiv preprint arXiv:1703.09393 .
[51] Leibe, B., Seemann, E., Schiele, B., 2005.
Pedestrian detection in
crowded scenes, in: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2005.
CVPR 2005. IEEE Computer Society Conference on, IEEE. pp. 878–
885.
[52] Lempitsky, V., Zisserman, A., 2010.
Learning to count objects in
images, in: Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, pp.
1324–1332.
[53] Li, G., Yu, Y., 2015. Visual saliency based on multiscale deep features,
in: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, pp. 5455–5463.
[54] Li, M., Zhang, Z., Huang, K., Tan, T., 2008. Estimating the number
of people in crowded scenes by mid based foreground segmentation
and head-shoulder detection, in: Pattern Recognition, 2008. ICPR 2008.
19th International Conference on, IEEE. pp. 1–4.
[55] Li, T., Chang, H., Wang, M., Ni, B., Hong, R., Yan, S., 2015. Crowded
scene analysis: A survey. IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems
for Video Technology 25, 367–386.
[56] Li, W., Mahadevan, V., Vasconcelos, N., 2014. Anomaly detection and
localization in crowded scenes. IEEE transactions on pattern analysis
and machine intelligence 36, 18–32.
[57] Lin, S.F., Chen, J.Y., Chao, H.X., 2001. Estimation of number of people
in crowded scenes using perspective transformation. IEEE Transactions
on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics-Part A: Systems and Humans 31,
645–654.
[58] Lipton, A.J., Venetianer, P.L., Haering, N., Brewer, P.C., Yin, W., Zhang,
Z., Yu, L., Hu, Y., Myers, G.W., Chosak, A.J., et al., 2015. Video ana-
lytics for retail business process monitoring. US Patent 9,158,975.
[59] Liu, B., Vasconcelos, N., 2015. Bayesian model adaptation for crowd
counts, in: Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Com-
puter Vision, pp. 4175–4183.
[60] Long, J., Shelhamer, E., Darrell, T., 2015. Fully convolutional networks
for semantic segmentation, in: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pp. 3431–3440.
[61] Loy, C.C., Chen, K., Gong, S., Xiang, T., 2013. Crowd counting and
proﬁling: Methodology and evaluation, in: Modeling, Simulation and
Visual Analysis of Crowds. Springer, pp. 347–382.
[62] Lu, L., Chan, C.Y., Wang, J., Wang, W., 2016. A study of pedestrian
group behaviors in crowd evacuation based on an extended ﬂoor ﬁeld
cellular automaton model. Transportation Research Part C: Emerging
Technologies .
[63] Mahadevan, V., Li, W., Bhalodia, V., Vasconcelos, N., 2010. Anomaly
detection in crowded scenes., in: CVPR, p. 250.
[64] Marana, A., Costa, L.d.F., Lotufo, R., Velastin, S., 1998. On the eﬃcacy
of texture analysis for crowd monitoring, in: Computer Graphics, Image
Processing, and Vision, 1998. Proceedings. SIBGRAPI’98. International
Symposium on, IEEE. pp. 354–361.
[65] Marsden, M., McGuiness, K., Little, S., O’Connor, N.E., 2016. Fully
convolutional crowd counting on highly congested scenes.
arXiv
preprint arXiv:1612.00220 .
[66] Marsden, M., McGuinness, K., Little, S., O’Connor, N.E., 2017.
Resnetcrowd: A residual deep learning architecture for crowd count-
ing, violent behaviour detection and crowd density level classiﬁcation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1705.10698 .
[67] Mongeon, M.C., Loce, R.P., Shreve, M.A., 2015. Busyness detection
and notiﬁcation method and system. US Patent App. 14/625,960.
[68] Moussa¨ıd, M., Perozo, N., Garnier, S., Helbing, D., Theraulaz, G., 2010.
The walking behaviour of pedestrian social groups and its impact on
crowd dynamics. PloS one 5, e10047.
[69] Mundhenk, T.N., Konjevod, G., Sakla, W.A., Boakye, K., 2016. A large
contextual dataset for classiﬁcation, detection and counting of cars with
deep learning, in: European Conference on Computer Vision, Springer.
pp. 785–800.
[70] Onoro-Rubio, D., L´opez-Sastre, R.J., 2016. Towards perspective-free
object counting with deep learning, in: European Conference on Com-
puter Vision, Springer. pp. 615–629.
[71] Paragios, N., Ramesh, V., 2001. A mrf-based approach for real-time sub-
way monitoring, in: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2001.
CVPR 2001. Proceedings of the 2001 IEEE Computer Society Confer-
ence on, IEEE. pp. I–1034.
[72] Parrish, J.K., Edelstein-Keshet, L., 1999. Complexity, pattern, and evo-
lutionary trade-oﬀs in animal aggregation. Science 284, 99–101.
[73] Patel, V.M., Gopalan, R., Li, R., Chellappa, R., 2015. Visual domain
adaptation: A survey of recent advances. IEEE Signal Processing Mag-
azine 32, 53–69.
[74] Perez, H., Hernandez, B., Rudomin, I., Ayguade, E., 2016. Task-based
crowd simulation for heterogeneous architectures, in: Innovative Re-
search and Applications in Next-Generation High Performance Com-

16
puting. IGI Global, pp. 194–219.
[75] Pham, V.Q., Kozakaya, T., Yamaguchi, O., Okada, R., 2015. Count
forest: Co-voting uncertain number of targets using random forest for
crowd density estimation, in: Proceedings of the IEEE International
Conference on Computer Vision, pp. 3253–3261.
[76] Ranjan, R., Patel, V., Chellappa, R., 2016. Hyperface: A deep multi-
task learning framework for face detection, landmark localization, pose
estimation, and gender recognition. IEEE transactions on PAMI .
[77] Rodriguez, M., Laptev, I., Sivic, J., Audibert, J.Y., 2011. Density-aware
person detection and tracking in crowds, in: 2011 International Confer-
ence on Computer Vision, IEEE. pp. 2423–2430.
[78] Ryan, D., Denman, S., Fookes, C., Sridharan, S., 2009. Crowd counting
using multiple local features, in: Digital Image Computing: Techniques
and Applications, 2009. DICTA’09., IEEE. pp. 81–88.
[79] Ryan, D., Denman, S., Sridharan, S., Fookes, C., 2015. An evaluation
of crowd counting methods, features and regression models. Computer
Vision and Image Understanding 130, 1–17.
[80] Sabzmeydani, P., Mori, G., 2007.
Detecting pedestrians by learning
shapelet features, in: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2007.
CVPR’07. IEEE Conference on, IEEE. pp. 1–8.
[81] Saleh, S.A.M., Suandi, S.A., Ibrahim, H., 2015. Recent survey on crowd
density estimation and counting for visual surveillance.
Engineering
Applications of Artiﬁcial Intelligence 41, 103–114.
[82] Sam, D.B., Surya, S., Babu, R.V., 2017. Switching convolutional neural
network for crowd counting, in: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition.
[83] Saxena, S., Br´emond, F., Thonnat, M., Ma, R., 2008. Crowd behavior
recognition for video surveillance, in: International Conference on Ad-
vanced Concepts for Intelligent Vision Systems, Springer. pp. 970–981.
[84] Sermanet, P., Chintala, S., LeCun, Y., 2012. Convolutional neural net-
works applied to house numbers digit classiﬁcation, in: Pattern Recog-
nition (ICPR), 2012 21st International Conference on, IEEE. pp. 3288–
3291.
[85] Shang, C., Ai, H., Bai, B., 2016. End-to-end crowd counting via joint
learning local and global count, in: Image Processing (ICIP), 2016 IEEE
International Conference on, IEEE. pp. 1215–1219.
[86] Shao, J., Change Loy, C., Wang, X., 2014. Scene-independent group
proﬁling in crowd, in: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Com-
puter Vision and Pattern Recognition, pp. 2219–2226.
[87] Shao, J., Kang, K., Loy, C.C., Wang, X., 2015. Deeply learned attributes
for crowded scene understanding, in: 2015 IEEE Conference on Com-
puter Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), IEEE. pp. 4657–4666.
[88] Shao, J., Loy, C.C., Kang, K., Wang, X., 2016. Slicing convolutional
neural network for crowd video understanding, in: Proceedings of the
IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pp.
5620–5628.
[89] Sheng, B., Shen, C., Lin, G., Li, J., Yang, W., Sun, C., 2016. Crowd
counting via weighted vlad on dense attribute feature maps. IEEE Trans-
actions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology .
[90] Sime, J.D., 1995. Crowd psychology and engineering. Safety science
21, 1–14.
[91] Simonyan, K., Zisserman, A., 2014. Very deep convolutional networks
for large-scale image recognition. arXiv preprint arXiv:1409.1556 .
[92] Sindagi, V., Patel, V., 2017. Cnn-based cascaded multi-task learning
of high-level prior and density estimation for crowd counting, in: Ad-
vanced Video and Signal Based Surveillance (AVSS), 2017 IEEE Inter-
national Conference on, IEEE.
[93] Szegedy, C., Liu, W., Jia, Y., Sermanet, P., Reed, S., Anguelov, D., Er-
han, D., Vanhoucke, V., Rabinovich, A., 2015. Going deeper with con-
volutions, in: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition, pp. 1–9.
[94] Tuzel, O., Porikli, F., Meer, P., 2008. Pedestrian detection via classiﬁ-
cation on riemannian manifolds. IEEE transactions on pattern analysis
and machine intelligence 30, 1713–1727.
[95] Viola, P., Jones, M.J., 2004. Robust real-time face detection. Interna-
tional journal of computer vision 57, 137–154.
[96] Viola, P., Jones, M.J., Snow, D., 2005. Detecting pedestrians using pat-
terns of motion and appearance. International Journal of Computer Vi-
sion 63, 153–161.
[97] Walach, E., Wolf, L., 2016. Learning to count with cnn boosting, in:
European Conference on Computer Vision, Springer. pp. 660–676.
[98] Wang, C., Zhang, H., Yang, L., Liu, S., Cao, X., 2015. Deep people
counting in extremely dense crowds, in: Proceedings of the 23rd ACM
international conference on Multimedia, ACM. pp. 1299–1302.
[99] Wang, Y., Zou, Y., 2016. Fast visual object counting via example-based
density estimation, in: Image Processing (ICIP), 2016 IEEE Interna-
tional Conference on, IEEE. pp. 3653–3657.
[100] Wu, B., Nevatia, R., 2005. Detection of multiple, partially occluded hu-
mans in a single image by bayesian combination of edgelet part detec-
tors, in: Computer Vision, 2005. ICCV 2005. Tenth IEEE International
Conference on, IEEE. pp. 90–97.
[101] Wu, B., Nevatia, R., 2007. Detection and tracking of multiple, partially
occluded humans by bayesian combination of edgelet based part detec-
tors. International Journal of Computer Vision 75, 247–266.
[102] Xu, B., Qiu, G., 2016. Crowd density estimation based on rich features
and random projection forest, in: 2016 IEEE Winter Conference on Ap-
plications of Computer Vision (WACV), IEEE. pp. 1–8.
[103] Yi, S., Wang, X., Lu, C., Jia, J., Li, H., 2016. L0 regularized stationary-
time estimation for crowd analysis. IEEE transactions on pattern analy-
sis and machine intelligence .
[104] Yu, J., Zhang, B., Kuang, Z., Lin, D., Fan, J., 2017. iprivacy: image
privacy protection by identifying sensitive objects via deep multi-task
learning. IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security 12,
1005–1016.
[105] Zhan, B., Monekosso, D.N., Remagnino, P., Velastin, S.A., Xu, L.Q.,
2008. Crowd analysis: a survey. Machine Vision and Applications 19,
345–357.
[106] Zhang, C., Kang, K., Li, H., Wang, X., Xie, R., Yang, X., 2016a. Data-
driven crowd understanding: A baseline for a large-scale crowd dataset.
IEEE Transactions on Multimedia 18, 1048–1061.
[107] Zhang, C., Li, H., Wang, X., Yang, X., 2015. Cross-scene crowd count-
ing via deep convolutional neural networks, in: Proceedings of the IEEE
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pp. 833–841.
[108] Zhang, H., Dana, K., 2017. Multi-style generative network for real-time
transfer. arXiv preprint .
[109] Zhang, H., Sindagi, V., Patel, V.M., 2017.
Image de-raining us-
ing a conditional generative adversarial network.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:1701.05957 .
[110] Zhang, H.P., Beer, A., Florin, E.L., Swinney, H.L., 2010. Collective
motion and density ﬂuctuations in bacterial colonies. Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences 107, 13626–13630.
[111] Zhang, Y., Zhou, D., Chen, S., Gao, S., Ma, Y., 2016b.
Single-
image crowd counting via multi-column convolutional neural network,
in: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, pp. 589–597.
[112] Zhao, T., Nevatia, R., Wu, B., 2008. Segmentation and tracking of mul-
tiple humans in crowded environments. IEEE transactions on pattern
analysis and machine intelligence 30, 1198–1211.
[113] Zhao, Z., Li, H., Zhao, R., Wang, X., 2016. Crossing-line crowd count-
ing with two-phase deep neural networks, in: European Conference on
Computer Vision, Springer. pp. 712–726.
[114] Zhou, B., Tang, X., Wang, X., 2015. Learning collective crowd behav-
iors with dynamic pedestrian-agents. International Journal of Computer
Vision 111, 50–68.
[115] Zhou, B., Wang, X., Tang, X., 2012. Understanding collective crowd
behaviors: Learning a mixture model of dynamic pedestrian-agents, in:
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2012 IEEE Confer-
ence on, IEEE. pp. 2871–2878.
[116] Zhu, F., Wang, X., Yu, N., 2014. Crowd tracking with dynamic evolu-
tion of group structures, in: European Conference on Computer Vision,
Springer. pp. 139–154.
[117] Zitouni, M.S., Bhaskar, H., Dias, J., Al-Mualla, M.E., 2016. Advances
and trends in visual crowd analysis: A systematic survey and evaluation
of crowd modelling techniques. Neurocomputing 186, 139–159.
