Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/isprsjprs
Three-dimensional photogrammetric mapping of cotton bolls in situ based on
point cloud segmentation and clustering
Shangpeng Suna, Changying Lia,⁎, Peng W. Cheeb, Andrew H. Patersonb,c, Yu Jianga, Rui Xua,
Jon S. Robertsonc, Jeevan Adhikaric, Tariq Shehzadc
a School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, College of Engineering, University of Georgia, Athens, GA, United States
b Department of Crop and Soil Sciences, College of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences, University of Georgia, Athens, GA, United States
c Department of Genetics, Franklin College of Arts and Sciences, University of Georgia, Athens, GA, United States
A R T I C L E I N F O
Keywords:
Clustering
Field-based high throughput phenotyping
LiDAR
Point cloud
Segmentation
Spatial distribution
A B S T R A C T
Three-dimensional high throughput plant phenotyping techniques provide an opportunity to measure plant
organ-level traits which can be highly useful to plant breeders. The number and locations of cotton bolls, which
are the fruit of cotton plants and an important component of fiber yield, are arguably among the most important
phenotypic traits but are complex to quantify manually. Hence, there is a need for effective and efficient cotton
boll phenotyping solutions to support breeding research and monitor the crop yield leading to better production
management systems. We developed a novel methodology for 3D cotton boll mapping within a plot in situ. Point
clouds were reconstructed from multi-view images using the structure from motion algorithm. The method used
a region-based classification algorithm that successfully accounted for noise due to sunlight. The developed
density-based clustering method could estimate boll counts for this situation, in which bolls were in direct
contact with other bolls. By applying the method to point clouds from 30 plots of cotton plants, boll counts, boll
volume and position data were derived. The average accuracy of boll counting was up to 90% and the R2 values
between fiber yield and boll number, as well as fiber yield and boll volume were 0.87 and 0.66, respectively. The
3D boll spatial distribution could also be analyzed using this method. This method, which was low-cost and
provided improved site-specific data on cotton bolls, can also be applied to other plant/fruit mapping analysis
after some modification.
1. Introduction
Crop demand is expected to increase because of expanding global
population (Cordell et al., 2009; Tester and Langridge, 2010; Gerland
et al., 2014). New plant breeding approaches that improve rates of
genetic gain can help to meet this demand. Cotton (Gossypium spp.) is
among the most economically important fiber crops and the United
States (US) is one of the top counties producing cotton. Around 79% of
the world’s natural fiber is produced from cotton (Townsend and Sette,
2016). In 2017, an estimated 12 million acres of cotton were grown in
the US, resulting in a value of around 7 billion for the US cotton in-
dustry (USDA, 2018). Cotton bolls, as a yield-related component, can be
used as an indicator for fiber prediction from which physiological and
genetic mechanisms of plant growth and development can be derived.
Therefore, high throughput phenotyping for cotton bolls plays a vital
role in the selection of new cultivars and improvement of management
practices. The traditional manual methods of quantification of cotton
bolls is time consuming and labor intensive. Thus, new methods that
can improve the throughput capability of cotton boll phenotyping are
needed.
Two-dimensional (2D) imaging technologies have been used widely
for phenotyping of cotton and other plants during the last several
decades (Li et al., 2014). For example, Li et al. (2017) developed a
neural network-based data processing pipeline to detect the presence of
cotton bolls in color images captured using a digital color camera
mounted on a bracket. However, this method could neither count the
number of bolls nor estimate the size of the bolls. Image-based methods
were used to detect many other plant/crop phenotypic traits such as
grape bunch detection (Pérez-Zavala et al., 2018), plant leaf segmen-
tation and tracking (Yin et al., 2018), and mango fruit detection (Stein
et al., 2016). All these 2D imaging methods have the same limitations.
First, it is difficult to address the occlusion problem, which is very
common for plant phenotyping, especially under field conditions, be-
cause of the lack of depth information; additionally, it is difficult to
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.isprsjprs.2019.12.011
Received 24 May 2019; Received in revised form 11 December 2019; Accepted 12 December 2019
⁎ Corresponding author at: 712F Boyd Graduate Studies, 200 D. W. Brooks Drive, University of Georgia, Athens, GA 30602, United States.
E-mail address: cyli@uga.edu (C. Li).
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 160 (2020) 195–207
Available online 25 December 2019
0924-2716/ © 2019 Published by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of International Society for Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, Inc. (ISPRS).
T

determine object structure information.
3D remote sensing and computer vision technologies provide op-
portunities to overcome the limitations of 2D imaging-based methods,
and have thus received significant attention for phenotyping by plant
scientists during the past decade (Gongal et al., 2015; Vazquez-Arellano
et al., 2016; Gibbs et al., 2017). In addition to providing depth in-
formation critical for addressing the occlusion problem and obtaining
structure information, a wider variety of phenotypic traits can be ex-
tracted from 3D data, such as crop biomass estimation (L.A. Wang et al.,
2016; Wallace et al., 2017), plant architectural trait analysis (Bao et al.,
2019; Conn et al., 2017; Guo et al., 2018), digital elevation model
generation (Toda et al., 2017), and dynamic crop growth monitoring
(Dong et al., 2016; Duan et al., 2016; Pearse et al., 2016). Specifically,
several studies were conducted for cotton plant morphological trait
measurements under field conditions (Jiang et al., 2017; Sun et al.,
2018b; Xu et al., 2019).
Methodologies for reconstructing 3D plant models fall into two
categories: active and passive. Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) is
one of the most widely used active sensors for field-based phenotyping
(Lin, 2015). Sun et al. (2018b) reconstructed 3D canopy surface
models for cotton plants by combining a 2D line scan LiDAR with an
RTK-GPS which were mounted on a ground vehicle-based mobile
platform. Only canopy level morphological traits were measured be-
cause the resolution of the point clouds was low so that plant organs
such as leaves and branches could not be observed. With the devel-
opment of sensing technologies, high-resolution 3D LiDAR sensors
have been used to obtain dense point clouds and have provided cap-
abilities for the detection of phenotypic traits at the plant organ level,
such as sorghum panicles (Malambo et al., 2019), maize main stem
and branches (Jin et al., 2018) and plant architecture pattern (Conn
et al., 2017; Paulus et al., 2014). However, these high-resolution
sensors are typically very expensive. Kinect-v2 is another commonly
used active sensor which can capture RGB-D data. It is much less ex-
pensive than the high-resolution LiDAR, but the resolution is low,
making it challenging for plant phenotyping of organ traits, especially
under field conditions (Jiang et al., 2017).
Image-based 3D reconstruction, which belongs to the passive cate-
gory, provides potential for balancing sensor cost and data resolution.
This method captures images of interested objects from different per-
spectives using digital cameras and then calculates depth information of
the targets based on a triangulation principle. Stereo vision is a popular
passive method for obtaining 3D data and processes two images cap-
tured with slightly different horizontal perspectives (Si et al., 2015).
The two images also can be taken in sequence by a single camera at two
positions if the scene is static. Particularly, more than two images can
be taken by moving the camera or using multi-view cameras, a strategy
referred to as structure-from-motion (SfM). Overall, these methods are
much less expensive than the active sensor-based methods for 3D re-
construction because they only require standard digital cameras to
capture overlapping images of an object. Meanwhile, they can re-
construct dense 3D point clouds because newer cameras can capture
high-resolution images with a very high resolution. Dense point clouds
were successfully reconstructed using multi-view images under con-
trolled illumination conditions (Nguyen et al., 2015; Duan et al., 2016).
Unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) platforms to which digital camera were
attached were used to take images for 3D reconstruction under field
conditions (Huang et al., 2016; Xu et al., 2019). Although the resolution
of point clouds was too low to detect plant organ traits, particularly
traits located at low parts of plants. Fernandez et al. (2017) applied
stereo cameras mounted on a ground vehicle-based platform to re-
construct sorghum 3D models under field conditions from which plant
architectural traits like stem diameter and plant height were accurately
extracted. This study demonstrated that image-based methods could be
used to reconstruct plant dense point clouds under field conditions.
Accurate individual cotton boll detection from point clouds is still
challenging, especially when plants are planted closely together in the
fields. Based on the review of plant phenotyping literature, detection
and characterization of single cotton bolls using 3D technologies re-
mains unexplored. Although there have been pioneering studies for
other plant organ trait detection, the developed algorithms were de-
signed according to specific phenotypic traits. For example, Velumani
et al. (2017) introduced a wheat ear counting method using point
clouds. Wheat ears were first segmented from the background using
voxel-based segmentation and mean shift segmentation, respectively,
based on density and position features, and then an Ostu’s threshold
method was applied to count wheat ears with an average detection rate
of 85%. Malambo et al. (2019) presented a method for individual sor-
ghum panicle detection based on panicle density and color features.
While an average accurate rate of ~89% was achieved, the performance
of the point cloud filtering operation was not robust because it relied
solely upon color features. In addition, as is common under field con-
ditions, objects in direct contact with each other were not accounted
for. In this study, cotton boll detection encountered specific challenges.
For example, for cotton bolls located around the entire plant and not
just at the top of the plant as in wheat ears and sorghum panicles,
position features could not be used for segmentation. Furthermore,
color can vary because of sunlight effects, which means that non-color
related features, such as shape and point spatial distribution, should be
explored to reduce sunlight influences. However, these features cannot
be extracted from single points, but region-based methods are often
used to overcome the limitation. The basic idea is to covert the original
point clouds into over-segmented regions. Each region is a group of
points with similarly predefined properties. Therefore, color, shape, and
other features can be used to describe a region. A color-based region
generation method has also been applied for apple detection (Tao and
Zhou, 2017). Papon et al. (2013) developed a region generation method
called voxel cloud connectivity segmentation that was used by Wolf
et al. (2015) to achieve accurate indoor scene point cloud segmenta-
tion. Cotton bolls have varied and complex shapes–closed bolls can vary
substantially in size, and open bolls can have a variety of shapes based
on emerging cotton fibers, resulting in serious overlapping issue com-
pared to other fruits with a more rigid structure, such as apples. The
detection of individual bolls from a multi-boll cluster in which several
single bolls are physically connected continues to pose challenges.
The goal of this study was to develop a data processing pipeline for
detecting and counting individual cotton bolls from 3D point clouds
reconstructed from multi-view images using SfM under field conditions.
The specific objectives of this study were to (1) implement a mobile 3D
image acquisition system in the field; (2) develop a region-based se-
mantic point cloud segmentation algorithm for foreground boll voxel
recognition; (3) develop a density-based clustering algorithm for in-
dividual cotton boll detection and counting; (4) validate the perfor-
mance of the proposed method as compared to the ground truth.
2. Materials and methods
2.1. Experimental fields and image collection
The plant materials used in this study were planted in two experi-
mental fields—a University of Georgia statewide variety testing field
(SVT) and a nested association mapping (NAM) field—located at Iron
Horse Farm in Greene County, GA, USA (Fig. 1). The NAM field was
designed for multiple purposes including phenotyping technique de-
velopment and proper genotype selection and validation. More than
200 genotypes were in the field, which were randomly chosen members
of a population derived from crossing a wild strain of G. hursutum race
yucatanenese with either of two elite cultivars, DES 56 or Acala Maxxa.
While the SVT field had one genotype and was originally intended to
determine whether the genotype was adapted to Georgia growing
conditions. Each plot in the fields was a 3-meter row. Fertilization and
irrigation practices followed commercial recommendations for the
southeastern cotton production region.
S. Sun, et al.
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 160 (2020) 195–207
196

Five Fuji X‑A10 cameras (Fujifilm Holdings Corporation, NY, USA)
mounted on a tractor platform were used to scan the plants. One camera
was set to photograph the plants from the top and the other four were
mounted on one side of the plot to scan plants from a side view
(Fig. 2a). The mounting height of the top camera was approximately
150 cm, and the distance between the four side view cameras and the
plant’s main stem was approximately 90 cm (Fig. 2b). A rectangle
consisting of camera C1, C2, C3 and C4 had a short edge of 29 cm and a
long edge of 44 cm (Fig. 2b). To ensure that high quality images could
be obtained for further 3D reconstruction operation, the cameras
needed to be configurated according to the guidelines based on field
experiments that require the cameras to be set to shutter-priority mode.
The specific shutter speed was set according to illumination conditions,
but had to be faster than 1/200 s in order to avoid tractor vibration
influences. The aperture had to be set accordingly in order to make
images have textural features (not too dark or bright). ISO was set to
200 to reduce image noise. The focal length was 16 mm, which was the
minimum value for the lens coming with the camera body and allowed
the cameras to achieve the largest field of view for the current layout.
The sensor size of the camera was 25.6 × 15.6 mm, and the image
Fig. 1. Experimental fields. Experiments were conducted in two fields. One was called SVT field and the other was NAM field.
Fig. 2. Multi-view image acquisition system and
plant 3D point cloud reconstruction. (a) Multi-view
cameras mounted on a tractor platform. (b) Camera
layout information. (c) A scale bar used to build a
local 3D Cartesian coordinate system and calibrate
the size of reconstructed 3D point cloud; (d)
Example of a reconstructed point cloud for a plot
with around 4 million points.
S. Sun, et al.
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 160 (2020) 195–207
197

resolution was 4896 × 3264. Therefore, the top camera had a field of
view of 221 × 146 cm at the ground plane, resulting in around
0.2 mm2/pixel, and the four side view cameras had 133 × 88 cm at a
distance of 90 cm away, resulting in 0.07 mm2/pixel. When scanning
the plants, the tractor speed was around 0.2–0.3 m/s and a trigger
device was developed to enable all five cameras to capture images at
the same time with a frequency of 1.5 frames per second, resulting in
approximately 10–15 s for one-side scanning (20–30 s for full scanning
of one plot) per plot at a length of ~3 m. The camera layout and
configuration ensured that enough overlap (greater than 60%) between
adjacent images, which is optimal for 3D reconstruction. The sensing
system continuously took close images of cotton plants from different
perspectives. Therefore, the occlusion problem was greatly reduced
while detailed information of plant organs was captured simulta-
neously. The tractor had to go through each row twice in order to scan
both sides of the plants, so there were approximately 150–225 images
collected for each plot. The first image collection was conducted on Nov
24, 2017 in the SVT field, and a total of 15 plots were scanned. The
second collection was on Dec 14, 2017 in NAM field with another 15
plots being scanned. Both days were sunny, but with different illumi-
nation levels. Accordingly, the shutter speed was 1/250 s and 1/400 s,
respectively, and the aperture was 7.1.
A custom-made scale bar was placed in front of each plot during
image collection (Fig. 2c). The rectangular scale bar consisted of four
markers (marker 73, 74, 75 and 76 in Fig. 2c). The horizontal edge was
0.2 m, and the vertical edge was 0.08 m. A local 3D Cartesian co-
ordinate system could be built when coordinates of the four markers
(73, 74, 75 and 76) were assigned, such as (0.1, 0.04, 0), (0.1, −0.04,
0), (−0.1, 0.04, 0), and (−0.1, −0.04, 0), respectively. The 3D re-
construction was conducted using the SfM algorithm, which was im-
plemented via Agisoft PhotoScan Professional (version 1.2.5) software
(Geoscan. Inc., Moscow, Russia). The upper limit of the feature points
and the matching points for each image was set to be 60,000 and
60,000, respectively, for the image alignment operation. For building
dense point clouds, a mild depth filter was applied to reduce the like-
lihood of incorrectly eliminating important features as outliers. The
four markers could be automatically detected by the software, and the
prebuilt 3D coordinate system could be used as hyper parameters for
the software to calibrate the actual size of the reconstructed 3D point
clouds.
Hand-harvesting was conducted just after each image collection.
The boll numbers for each plot were counted, and the yield was
weighed. The summary of the hand harvesting is presented in Table 1.
2.2. Cotton boll detection and characterization
The 3D Cotton boll detection and characterization algorithm de-
veloped in this study worked on plot-level point clouds and involved
three main steps. The first phase consisted of point cloud pre-proces-
sing. Next, point cloud segmentation was performed to exclude branch
points from point clouds. This operation relied on characteristic dif-
ferences such as color and shape features observed between branches
and bolls. Finally, individual bolls were detected based on the point
density and boll size features, deriving boll number as well as volume,
and position traits.
2.2.1. Point cloud preprocessing
Point cloud preprocessing included ground plane removal and point
cloud rotation. The ground plane was removed by setting a threshold at
zh = 10 cm along the z axis direction because it was not useful for the
subsequent data processing. Although every precaution was taken to
place a scale bar, the y axis of the local coordinate created by the scale
bar (Fig. 2c) may not be aligned adequately with the planting line,
resulting in an angle α between the x axis and the planting line (root
base) (Fig. 3a). Therefore, the planting line needed to be estimated in
order to conduct point cloud rotation. To do this, a 3 cm thick slice was
cut starting from the bottom of the point cloud and a 2D density-based
spatial clustering of applications with noise (DBSCAN) (Wierzchoń and
Kłopotek, 2018) was then applied to cluster the sliced points with
only x and y coordinates (Fig. 3b); the two parameters—minPts which
specifies how many neighbors a point should have to be included into a
cluster, and Eps which specifies how close points should be to each
other for a cluster, were set to be 5 and 2 cm for the 2D DBSCAN op-
eration, respectively. The local mean x, y coordinates were used to
represent the location of each cluster (Fig. 3c), and a line was fit by
random sample consensus (RANSAC). The fit line was considered to be
the planting line. Finally, the point cloud was rotated (90 −α) around
the z axis by Eq. (1) to ensure that the planting line was at x = 0.
=
R (90
)
cos(90
)
sin(90
)
0 0
sin(90
) cos(90
) 0 0
0
0
1 0
0
0
0 1
z
(1)
2.2.2. Point cloud segmentation
2.2.2.1. Over-segmentation of point clouds. Regions, which can result
from over-segmentation methods, provide better spatial support from
which to compute richer feature representations as compared to single
points (Rusu, 2010; Tao and Zhou, 2017). The purpose of over-
segmentation methods is to merge the points that are close enough in
terms of predefined attributes. The output is a set of clusters, each one is
a set of points. In this study, a voxel cloud connectivity segmentation
(VCCS) algorithm (Papon et al., 2013), which is a region growing
method incrementally expanding supervoxels from a set of seed voxels,
is applied to produce over-segmented regions in order to perform boll
Table 1
Ground truth data of boll number and fiber yield. A total of 15 plots for each
dataset.
Field
Boll number
Yield (g)
Min
Max
Mean
Min
Max
Mean
SVT
85
349
218
330
1474
845.5
NAM
37
377
206
113
1633
747.3
Fig. 3. Rotation of a 3D point cloud. (a) An angle α between the x axis and the
planting line. (b) Clustering results of the 3 cm thick slice points. (c) A line (in
red) was fit using RANSAC to calculate the angle α for rotation operation. (For
interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the reader is re-
ferred to the web version of this article.)
S. Sun, et al.
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 160 (2020) 195–207
198

points segmentation from the branch points. The general process of
VCCS is as follows: the original point cloud is voxelized with a
resolution
of
Rvoxel.
Each
voxel
can
be
represented
in
a
39-
dimensional space (Eq. (2)).
=
F
x y x L a b FPFH
{ ,
,
,
,
,
,
}
1,2,
, 33
(2)
where F is the feature vector for each voxel, x, y and z are values of a
local Cartesian coordinate system, L, a and b are intensities in the
CIELab color space, which expresses color as three values: L for
lightness from black to white, a from green to red, and b from blue to
yellow. FPFH1…33 are the 33 elements of a fast point feature histogram
(FPFH), which is feature vector describing the voxel geometrical
characteristics (Rusu et al., 2009). Then the voxel cloud space is
divided into a voxelized grid with a resolution of Rseed. Rseed is
significantly higher than Rvoxel. Rseed = 0.08 m and Rvoxel = 0.002 m
according to the size of cotton bolls in this study. For each grid of
voxels, a seed voxel is initialized by selecting the voxel nearest to the
center of the grid. Seed voxels are then moved to the connected voxel
which has the smallest gradient within Rseed of the seed center.
Supervoxels are grown by assigning voxels to seed voxels iteratively
according to a distance, D, calculated in F using Eq. (3).
=
+
+
D
D
D
R
D
3
c
c
s
s
seed
n
n
2
2
2
2
(3)
where Dc is the Euclidean distance in CIELab space, Ds is the spatial
distance, which is normalized by the seeding resolution, and where Dn
is an angle distance between the surface normal vectors in the FPFH
space. Parameters ωc, ωs and ωn are color, spatial, and normal weights,
respectively. The three weights were set equally (ωc = ωs = ωn = 1) in
this study. For a cluster center, the nearest voxel is selected, and
starting from which adjacent voxels selected through flowing outwards,
the distances between the voxels and the center are calculated. If the
distance is the smallest this voxel has been seen, its label is set. Once all
voxels are assigned, the center of each supervoxel is updated by taking
the mean of all its constituents. This is repeated until either the cluster
centers stabilize or for a fixed number of iterations. VCCS takes
advantage of 3D geometry so that the over-segmentations conform to
object boundaries better than existing methods while maintaining
processing efficiency. A typical single boll is sperical, with a diameter
ranging from 5 to 10 cm (i.e., volume from 133 to 523 cm3). So, Rseed
and Rvoxel were selected as 8 cm and 2 mm, respectively, and the color,
spatial, and normal weights were set to be equal importance, i.e.,
ωc = 1, ωs = 1 and ωn = 1.
Color-based region growing segmentation (CRGS) is another com-
monly used region growth method and can produce over-segmented
regions from point clouds. CRGS generates regions based on RGB color
differences and Euclidean distances between the seed point and its
neighboring points (Tao and Zhou, 2017). The general process of CRGS
is as follows: a point with the minimum curvature value is picked from
the original point cloud and then is added to the set called seeds. The
color differences in RGB space are calculated between the seed point
and its neighboring points. If the difference is less than a predefined
threshold, tc, the neighboring point is added to the current region. After
every neighboring point is tested, the spatial differences between seed
point and the neighboring points are calculated. If the difference is less
than a threshold ts, then the point is added to the seeds and the current
seed point is removed. This process is repeated until the seeds set is
empty, resulting in a region. The procedure iterates until there are no
labeled points in the original points. The parameters tc were selected as
a small value, tc = 10, in order to get small scale over-segmented re-
gions, and ts was set to be 8 cm, which was the same to the parameter
Rseed in VCCS. We compared the two methods for cotton boll counting.
2.2.2.2. Feature extraction. A 97-dimensional feature vector including
color features, spatial features, and shape features was extracted from
each over-segmentation to describe the point cloud data denoting
R = [p1, p2, …, pn] as an over-segmented region, where each point pi
contains Cartesian coordinates (xi, yi, zi) and point intensity in an RGB
color space (Ri, Gi, Bi). We observed significantly noticeable differences
between foreground boll points and the points in the background in
terms of color. Therefore, color information is a good descriptor for the
region features. In this study, a 64-dimensional vector was extracted
from RGB and HSV color spaces, which was a histogram distributions of
sixteen bins in channels R, G, B and S (Li et al., 2016; Sun et al., 2018a).
Although the color of the points could be described in an RGB color
space, the points in the HSV color space showed relatively effective
light-interference resistant capabilities (Tao and Zhou, 2017).
Geometric features, including spatial features (Zhou and Tuzel,
2017) and shape features (Munoz, 2013; Verdoja et al., 2017), were
required because some branches had almost the same color as the bolls
because of the effects of sunlight during field image collection. For
spatial features, the local mean was computed as the centroid of a re-
gion, denoted as (vx, vy, vz); then, the distance between each point, pi,
and the centroid was computed and denoted as S = (xi-vx, yi-vy, zi-vz),
i = 1, 2, …, n. For each axis, a histogram distribution with 10 bins was
computed, resulting in a 30-dimension feature vector for x, y, and z
coordinates. Shape features were extracted from the covariance matrix
of a region. Let KXX be the covariance matrix of a region X with Np
points (Eqs. (4) and (5)), and λ0, λ1, λ2 (λ0 > λ1 > λ2) be the ei-
genvalues of KXX.
=
K
N
q
µ
q
µ
1
(
)(
)
xx
p q
N
p
p
T
p
(4)
=
µ
N
q
1
p
p q Np
(5)
The three-dimensional eigen value vector {λ0, λ1, λ2} can be used as
the region shape feature descriptor. If λ0 ≫λ1, λ2, the region has a
linear structure, such as branches of cotton plants; if λ0 ≈λ1 ≈λ2, the
region has a spherical structure, such as the cotton bolls in this study.
Because a boll could be split into several regions, and each region may
not obtain rigid spherical shape. For these boll regions, the eigen values
have the property of λ0 ≈λ1 ≫λ2.
2.2.2.3. SVM-based classifier. A support vector machine (SVM), which
effectively
generalizes
pattern
recognition
and
provides
robust
calculation
capabilities
(Vapnik,
2013),
was
used
to
train
a
classification model to discriminate between boll points in the front
and the background points. A total of 651 over-segmentations with two
categories—bolls and branches—were labeled manually based on a
custom-developed tool using MATLAB 2018b (The Math Works Inc.,
Natick, MA, USA). There were 328 boll samples and 323 branch
samples, respectively. The dataset was divided into training and
validation subsets with a ratio of 0.7:0.3. During model training, a
radial basis function (RBF) kernel was used and punishment parameter
C and kernel parameter γ were tuned based on a grid-search and 5-fold
cross validation methods. After SVM classification, a color filter was
used to remove black exocarps of cotton bolls.
2.2.3. Point cloud clustering
After obtaining boll points from the point cloud segmentation op-
eration, individual cotton bolls were detected by a clustering-based
algorithm relying on point density and boll size features. For two single
bolls, there was typically a gap between them if they were not in direct
contact with each other, resulting in different point density distribu-
tions.
The 3D DBSCAN clustering algorithm was applied first to group boll
points into clusters. The parameter Eps of DBSCAN was set to be 2 cm
because most bolls were larger; the other parameter, MinPts, could be
selected from a wide range of 5–15, which did not affect the result
S. Sun, et al.
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 160 (2020) 195–207
199

significantly. MinPts = 10 was used in this study. The output clusters
were divided into three categories according to cluster volume: noisy
clusters, single boll clusters, and multi-boll clusters. A cluster was
considered to be noisy if its volume was less than 1 cm3, so it was
removed by a size filter. For single boll clusters, each cluster was con-
sidered as a single boll, while multi-boll clusters included multiple bolls
inside, which had a larger volume than a single boll. Once boll numbers
in a multi-boll cluster were estimated, the whole boll counts could be
obtained.
The boll numbers in a multi-boll cluster could be estimated through
the quotient between the contact cluster volume and the average single
boll volume, vm (Miller et al., 2017). We assumed that most clusters
consisted of single bolls with a typical volume (hereafter, regular bolls),
though some were multi-boll clusters with a larger volume and some
were single bolls with a smaller volume.
Let V be a set of volumes for clusters.
=
V
v
v
v
{ ,
,
,
}
n
1
2
(6)
A square matrix M could be obtained by eq (7).
=
=
M
v v
i j
n
/
,
,
1, 2,
,
ij
i
j
(7)
where · was a round function; each row of M was the rounded volume
ratio between vi and vj. The number of unit values (ratio = 1) in each
row of M was counted and stored in a vector K.
=
K
k
k
k
{ ,
,
,
}
n
1
2
(8)
The mode (the value in a set of data appearing most often) of the
elements in K was calculated and is denoted by e. The index of elements
whose value equals e in K was calculated using Eq. (9), creating a vector
d = {d1, d2, ···, dn}. If di = 1, the ith cluster is a regular boll.
=
=
d
k
e
k
e
1
0
i
i
i
(9)
The average volume vm of the regular bolls was calculated by Eq.
(10).
=
×
=
=
v
v
d
d
m
i
n
i
i
i
n
i
1
1
(10)
Then, the regular boll index and the corresponding average volume
vm were updated using Eqs. (11) and (10), respectively.
=
=
d
v v
v v
1
/
1
0
/
1
i
i
m
i
m
(11)
The updating steps were repeated until vm did not change. For a
multi-boll cluster, the volume was divided by vm and the quotient was
rounded to produce the boll counts. Then, a 3D k-means clustering
method was applied to obtain the boundaries of individual bolls.
Algorithm 1 (Boll counting).
In addition to boll numbers, other cotton boll data, such as boll
volume and boll position, could be calculated when the individual bolls
were detected. The volume of a cotton boll was estimated using the
convex hull method, and the local mean of the x, y, and z coordinates
was used to represent the position of the boll.
2.3. Validation and statistical analysis
In order to validate the performance of the proposed boll counting
algorithm, the mean absolute percentage error (MAPE) was computed
between the algorithm measuring boll numbers Bi and the manual
measurements mi by Eq. (12). P was the number of plots.
=
×
=
MAPE
P
100%
i
P
B
m
m
1
|
|
i
i
i
(12)
Additionally, in order to test the correlation between the algorithm
measurements and the ground truth, the coefficient of determination
(R2) and the root mean squared errors (RMSE) were calculated.
A linear regression analysis was conducted to explore the relation-
ship between fiber yield and boll number as well as boll volume. Boll
position additionally can enable boll spatial density distribution ana-
lysis (Fig. 4). For height (vertical direction) spatial analysis (Fig. 4a),
we divided the space between the ground and the maximum height of
the bolls into several slices at consistent intervals, whereby the number
of bolls in each slice could be calculated and the distribution histogram
could be obtained. For the x-y plane (horizontal direction) analysis
(Fig. 4b), the space was divided into slices along the x axis at consistent
intervals, and the bolls located at each slice were calculated.
3. Results
A plot with 312 cotton bolls (Genotype: P011.608.GA2012F2) was
selected to demonstrate the 3D boll mapping results (Fig. 5). This plot
was selected because the bolls were dense enough that they had a high
possibility of being connected. After pose adjustment, the ground plane
was located on the x-y plane with z = 0, and the planting line was
located at the line x = 0. The ground plane was removed for the fol-
lowing processing.
S. Sun, et al.
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 160 (2020) 195–207
200

3.1. Boll point segmentation
Over-segmentations of the point cloud were generated by the VCCS
algorithm (Fig. 6), where each over-segmentation (supervoxel) con-
tained several individual points and was indicated using a color dif-
ferent from surrounding supervoxels. A boll might be divided into
several supervoxels, as were branches. Similar results could be gener-
ated using CRGS algorithm.
The optimal parameters C and γ for VCCS-generated region dataset
were 5.28 and 4.60, respectively. The trained SVM classifier achieved
classification accuracies of 95.6% and 91.6% in training and validation
datasets, respectively. Regarding the CRGS-generated region dataset,
the optimal parameters C and γ were 1 and 2.30, and the training and
validation accuracies were 94.7% and 91.4%, respectively. The results
indicated that both classifiers achieved good performance for boll re-
gion and branch region classification. However, the VCCS algorithm
Fig. 5. Point cloud of a plot after preprocessing (pose adjustment and ground plane removal) from two different perspectives. (a) Point cloud with the viewing angle
of azimuth and elevation [120, 10] degree. (b) Point cloud with the viewing angle of azimuth and elevation [60, 10] degree.
Fig. 4. Schematic of 3D cotton boll spatial density distribution analysis. (a) z-axis (vertical direction) distribution. (b) x-y plane (horizontal direction) distribution.
S. Sun, et al.
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 160 (2020) 195–207
201

was much faster (~5 times) than the CRGS algorithm. This advantage
was mainly attributed to two factors: the VCCS applied more efficient
data structures kd-tree which is a binary search tree and very efficient
for range and nearest neighbor search operation (Papon et al., 2013);
and an operation merged small regions together for the CRGS method,
which was time consuming. Fig. 7 demonstrated an example of ob-
tained cotton boll points after classification operation using a VCCS-
generated region dataset. Overall, it was observed that almost all of the
boll points were segmented successfully, most of the branches with
white color were correctly classified because of the contribution of the
region spatial and shape features. However, we found that some branch
regions and boll regions were misclassified. This did not cause sig-
nificantly negative effects on boll detection because typically only a
small part of a boll was misclassified. Detailed results would be pre-
sented in Section 3.2.
3.2. 3D boll mapping
The boll counting results from the proposed method were precise
and highly correlated with manual harvesting results (Fig. 8). An
average accuracy of ~90% for boll counts for all 30 plots was achieved,
with the best accuracy of ~95% (MAPE = 5.08%) and RMSE of 16.87.
It was observed that for both boll segmentation methods, the MAPE and
RMSE for data collected on November 22, 2017 (Fig. 8a and b) were
better than those for data collected on Dec 14, 2017 (Fig. 8c and d),
suggesting that sampling date affected boll counting performance. The
most likely reason was that at the early stage of the harvesting season,
cotton bolls retained relatively regular shapes (tight spheres) and have
few occlusion issues. However, after prolonged exposure to wind and
rain at a later stage in the harvesting season, the cotton fiber would not
stay tightly attached to the burr and became strung out, resulting in
cotton bolls that were droopy and have complex shapes and a higher
probability occlusion. However, the R2 values for the NAM field were
better than the ones for the SVT field since the boll number for NAM
field was distributed over a large range while it was restricted to a
relatively small range for SVT. Each plot in the NAM field was a dif-
ferent genotype with diverse morphology and yield, while the plots in
SVT field were commercial cultivars with more homogenous mor-
phology and high yield. For point clouds obtained from each experi-
mental field, similar boll counting performance was obtained using
both VCCS- and CRGS-generated region datasets.
The error of cotton boll counting (over estimation and under esti-
mation) was mainly attributed to the splitting operation of multi-boll
clusters. As the reproductive organ, cotton bolls on a cotton plant reach
physiological maturity and open at a wide range of times because
flowering time usually begins about 60–70 days after planting and new
flowers continue to develop throughout the 4–6 weeks of the re-
productive season depending on the interaction between cultivar and
environmental factors such as temperature and moisture conditions
(Sharma et al., 2015). The boll size and shape varied significantly
among plots grown even in the same field. If all bolls were opened while
maintaining regular shapes for a plot, the multi-boll cluster splitting
method would achieve good counting performance (Fig. 9a). However,
for a plot in which some bolls were located in higher canopy, they were
not opened fully and had small volumes, while other bolls typically
located at lower canopy were opened fully and were droopy and had a
much larger volume (Fig. 9b), the calculated average individual boll
volume would be similar to the incompletely opened bolls. Therefore,
the cluster splitting operation would generate a number much greater
than the ground truth number for a multi-boll cluster. The highest over
estimation plot in our dataset was demonstrated in Fig. 9b and the
zoomed-in part showed that a multi-boll cluster was over divided. If all
Fig. 7. A detailed view of boll segmentation for a
plot using a classifier trained by a support vector
machine. (a) Segmented boll points without branch
points. (b) Segmented boll points with branch
points. Boll points were indicated using red color
and other points using their original color. (For
interpretation of the references to color in this
figure legend, the reader is referred to the web
version of this article.)
Fig. 6. Over-segmented regions using VCCS algo-
rithm for a plot.
S. Sun, et al.
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 160 (2020) 195–207
202

cotton bolls were fully opened, they had large size, resulting in a higher
possibility to create multi-boll clusters (Fig. 9c). Overall, the calculated
average individual boll volume would be large, resulting in that less
number (under estimation) would be obtained from the splitting op-
eration, because some two-boll clusters had similar volume to the cal-
culated average boll volume as demonstrated in the zoomed-in part in
Fig. 9c. Another possible situation was that the identified individual
bolls during the cluster splitting operation would be clusters consisting
of two or more bolls, thereby leading to under estimation would
happen. Fig. 9c demonstrated the plot with the highest under estima-
tion.
3.3. Correlation with yield
Overall, boll number and boll volume presented a noticeable cor-
relation with fiber yield for the SVT and NAM fields (R2 > 0.87 for boll
number, R2 > 0.66 for boll volume) (Table. 2, Figs. S1 and S2). Boll
number gave better correlation than boll volume with fiber yield for
both fields, resulting in better MAPE and RMSE. This was not surprising,
as mentioned boll size can vary substantially and is affected by the
length of time exposed to the weather. Cotton bolls developed from
flowers that opened early in the growing season, often located in the
lower canopy, tend to mature and open at an earlier time. These bolls
have a higher likelihood to become droopy, which can result in in-
creased size variation at maturity. Similar to the explanation for boll
number counting performance analysis, the timing of data collection
related to the maturity levels of cotton bolls affected yield correlations.
Given that the data collection in the SVT field was performed in a more
favorable time window (i.e., plants were less weathered) than in the
NAM field, a better performance was obtained in the SVT field than in
the NAM field for boll numbers and volume measurements.
3.4. Spatial density distribution analysis
Boll distribution, a phenotypic trait highly useful for yield dis-
tribution analysis, could also be analyzed using such techniques. For a
typical cotton plant, the first position bolls between nodes 7 and 20
generally contributed the majority of fiber yield (Ritchie et al., 2007).
As an example, the bolls detected from a plot in Fig. 9a represented
using local mean coordinates in Fig. 10a were distributed within a
bounding box with a size of 0.83 m, 3.35 m, 0.78 m along x, y, z di-
rection, respectively. The bolls located at the longest distance from the
planting line (x = 0) were 0.37 m and 0.48 m for the left and right
sides, respectively (Fig. 10b). The bolls were not distributed evenly on
the two sides of the plots: around 70% of the bolls were located to the
right side of the plot (Fig. 10c). This was mainly caused by hurricane
Irma, which made landfall on September 11th, 2017 and resulted in all
the plants in the plots becoming tilted. 91.4% of bolls were located
within a distance of 0.3 m from the planting line. In the vertical di-
rection, the highest and lowest bolls were located at heights of 0.78 m
and 0.11 m, respectively, and the average height of all bolls’ location
was 0.42 m (Fig. 10d). Around 85% of the bolls were located within a
height range of [0.2, 0.6] m (Fig. 10e).
4. Discussion
We demonstrated that high quality, color 3D point clouds can be
reconstructed from multi-view images collected using a ground-based
mobile platform under field conditions. This provides the potential to
extract plant organ-level phenotypes from the point cloud, which has
advantages over UAV-based 3D model platforms (Colomina and Molina,
2014; Pajares, 2015; Sankaran et al., 2015). A multi-view scanning
strategy greatly reduces the that significantly influences plant pheno-
typing, especially under field conditions (Vazquez-Arellano et al., 2016).
The tractor platform was very heavy, however, which might have caused
soil disturbance and compaction. In addition, a person was needed to
drive it for data collection. These limitations could be solved by replacing
the platform with a motorized, narrow-wheeled and lightweight robot
which can further promote easier transportation (Thompson et al.,
2018). Another potential solution to further improve image collection
efficiency is to use a UAV platform that attaches a tilted digital camera to
take low altitude images from different perspectives.
Fig. 8. Scatter plots of references versus estimated boll numbers. (a) SVT field data with VCCS algorithm. (b) SVT field data with CRGS algorithm. (c) NAM field data
with VCCS algorithm. (d) NAM field data with CRGS algorithm.
S. Sun, et al.
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 160 (2020) 195–207
203

Illumination conditions play an important role in the quality of raw
images, so noontime is preferred for field plant scanning with this
platform. At midday, there is peak sunlight, which allows configuration
of the camera with a high shutter speed that is helpful to reduce blurry
images. Another advantage is that the shadow effect can be reduced
since the sunlight is almost perpendicular to the ground plane. Wind is
another factor influencing image quality, and breezy conditions can be
detrimental to 3D point cloud reconstruction. One potential solution is
to add an enclosure with artificial lights (Andrade-Sanchez et al., 2013;
Barker et al., 2016). The enclosure itself could block winds, and the
artificial light could improve consistency of light condition and reduce
shadows. Although general guidelines were proposed to take high
quality images
for 3D reconstruction, the camera
configuration
methods may vary for other plant applications because of different trait
features like scale and surface. Human experience is very important for
data collection, and no strict formulae can ensure high quality images.
This is another limitation for the automated sensing system.
Current 3D point cloud reconstruction and data analyses were per-
formed off-line. Around three to five hours were needed for a plot,
depending on how many images used, based on a desktop equipped
with 16 GB RAM memory and a 4 GB memory GPU card with the
computational capability of 5.0. Data acquisition and processing could
Table 2
Comparison of fiber yield correlation analysis with boll number and boll volume.
Attributes
Methods
SVT
NAM
R2
MAPE (%)
RMSE (g)
R2
MAPE (%)
RMSE (g)
Boll number
VCCS
0.91
7.99
77.09
0.90
19.29
143.84
CRGS
0.87
8.15
93.57
0.90
17.75
141.01
Boll volume
VCCS
0.66
17.10
152.05
0.84
37.86
179.94
CRGS
0.66
17.59
151.70
0.85
34.36
173.25
Fig. 9. Representative results of 3D boll counting,
each boll was indicated using a red bounding box.
(a) The plot achieved the best boll counting result.
Cotton bolls in this plot were fully opened while
maintaining regular shapes. (b) The plot had the
highest over estimation of boll numbers. Boll size
had a wide variation in this plot, bolls at the high
plant parts were not fully opened, resulting in small
volume, while bolls at the bottom plant parts were
fully opened, resulting in much larger volume. (c)
The plot had the highest under estimation of boll
numbers. In this plot all bolls were fully opened,
resulting in a higher possibility to generate more
multi-clusters. (For interpretation of the references
to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred
to the web version of this article.)
S. Sun, et al.
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 160 (2020) 195–207
204

become online if 3D point clouds were acquired by using high resolu-
tion 3D LiDAR, although the cost of instrumentation would increase
significantly (Kirchgessner et al., 2017; Q.H. Guo et al., 2018).
The boll counting accuracy of the method outperformed the studies
of fruit counting using 2D image based methods (Malik et al., 2016; C.L.
Wang et al., 2016; Bargoti and Underwood, 2017), because more in-
formation such as actual size and depth was included for 3D point
clouds, and the occlusion effect was much reduced due to multi-view
images. In addition, rich features such as spatial and shape features,
which are not affected by varied illumination conditions, can be ex-
tracted from over-segmented regions. This greatly improved detection
performance (Sun et al., 2018b; Malambo et al., 2019). Although these
hand-designed features performed well in this study, performance could
be further improved if more advanced or complex features from 3D
point clouds can be extracted and more representative labeled samples
are added into the training and testing datasets. In addition, the per-
formance of the classification model could be improved by using more
specific machine learning methods for training. For example, the al-
gorithm high-order Markov random fields was reported to achieve
better performance than standard SVM for the application of point
cloud classification (Munoz, 2013), because it can efficiently model the
interaction of a group of points. VSSC is preferred for over-segmenta-
tion region generation considering the results of segmentation and al-
gorithm computing efficiency in the future. 3D deep learning is another
potential method to be explored in the future. The method can extract
automatically point cloud features from low-level information, such as
edges and corners, to high-level semantic information by using a hier-
archical multi-stage structure that enables end-to-end ‘boll mapping’
(Qi et al., 2017; Zhou and Tuzel, 2017), which can overcome the lim-
itation of hand-designed feature extraction operation. Compared to 2D
image-based methods, in addition to improving boll counting perfor-
mance, 3D model-based methods permit more phenotypic traits such as
boll volume and boll spatial density distribution to be derived effec-
tively and efficiently. Using such a method, it could be feasible to de-
lineate cotton boll locations on each branch if a cotton plant branch
pattern is obtained (Jin et al., 2018). Identification of each individual
cotton boll and its location would be highly useful to plant breeding and
cotton-picking robot in the future.
This study provides a new method to explore and understand plant
growth using 3D mapping in situ, which is a grand challenge in plant
biology. On one hand, the extracted traits such as the boll distribution
on a cotton plant would be helpful for manipulating plant architecture,
which are increasingly being emphasized in crop yield improvement
(Mathan et al., 2016). If gin turnout data were available, cotton yield
could be more accurately estimated by associating with number of bolls
and boll size obtained using the proposed method (Sharma et al., 2015).
Therefore, it would not be necessary for breeders to harvest cotton in
order to determine which genotypes will produce the highest yield. On
the other hand, 3D mapping in situ provides opportunities to extract
more features such as plant nodes and branch architecture from point
clouds (Conn et al., 2017).
5. Conclusions
A multi-view, camera-based system was developed to acquire high
quality colored 3D point clouds of cotton plants in situ. High accuracy
Fig. 10. Cotton boll 3D spatial density distribution analysis. (a) Localization of all detected bolls, each represented using a blue point. (b) Boll distribution on x-z
plane. (c) Histogram of boll localization on x-z plane. (d) Boll distribution on y-z plane. (e) Histogram of boll localization on y-z plane. (For interpretation of the
references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)
S. Sun, et al.
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 160 (2020) 195–207
205

boll segmentation and counting was achieved based on 3D point cloud
segmentation and clustering algorithms. The developed segmentation
algorithm was robust for varied illumination conditions, and the in-
dividual cotton boll detection algorithm accurately estimated boll
numbers from multi-boll clusters. As a result, reliable 3D boll mapping
and counting was obtained. Overall, the proposed method not only
automated cotton boll counting, but also extracted new phenotypic
traits such as boll size and 3D boll spatial distribution. These traits can
help speed up new cultivar selection and be used for yield prediction
and robotic harvest. Future work will focus on improving the
throughput of data acquisition and processing, as well as exploring 3D
deep learning for boll detection under field conditions.
Acknowledgements
This work was supported by the National Robotics Initiative grant
(NIFA grant No. 2017-67021-25928), partially supported by NSF
Growing Convergence Research (1934481), Cotton Incorporated (17-
510GA), and Presidential Interdisciplinary Seed Grant at the University
of Georgia, United States.
The authors gratefully thank Gary pierce, Lisa Rainville, Susan
Auckland, Mengyun Zhang and Liujun Li for their assistance in cotton
boll hand harvesting, and Kyle Hunady for his assistance in sample
labeling.
Author contributions
S.S, C.L and P.W.C conceived the idea and designed the experi-
ments; A.H.P and P.W.C contributed to the preparation of materials and
equipment; S.S, Y.J, R.X, J.S.R, J.A and T.S conducted the experiments;
S.S analyzed the data; S.S, C.L, A.H.P, and P.W.C interpreted results and
wrote the paper. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.
Declaration of Competing Interest
The authors declared that there is no conflict of interest.
Appendix A. Supplementary material
Supplementary data to this article can be found online at https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.isprsjprs.2019.12.011.
References
Andrade-Sanchez, P., Gore, M.A., Heun, J.T., Thorp, K.R., Carmo-Silva, A.E., French,
A.N., Salvucci, M.E., White, J.W., 2013. Development and evaluation of a field-based
high-throughput phenotyping platform. Funct. Plant Biol. 41 (1), 68–79.
Bao, Y., Tang, L., Srinivasan, S., Schnable, P.S.J.B.E., 2019. Field-based architectural
traits characterisation of maize plant using time-of-flight 3D imaging. Biosyst. Eng.
178, 86–101.
Bargoti, S., Underwood, J.P., 2017. Image segmentation for fruit detection and yield
estimation in apple orchards. J. Field Rob. 34 (6), 1039–1060.
Barker III, J., Zhang, N., Sharon, J., Steeves, R., Wang, X., Wei, Y., Poland, J., 2016.
Development of a field-based high-throughput mobile phenotyping platform.
Comput. Electron. Agric. 122, 74–85.
Colomina, I., Molina, P., 2014. Unmanned aerial systems for photogrammetry and remote
sensing: a review. ISPRS J. Photogramm. Remote Sens. 92, 79–97.
Conn, A., Pedmale, U.V., Chory, J., Stevens, C.F., Navlakha, S., 2017. A statistical de-
scription of plant shoot architecture. Curr. Biol. 27 (14), 2078–2088 e1-e3.
Cordell, D., Drangert, J.-O., White, S., 2009. The story of phosphorus: global food security
and food for thought. Global Environ. Change 19 (2), 292–305.
Dong, J., Burnham, J.G., Boots, B., Rains, G.C., Dellaert, F., 2016. 4D Crop Monitoring:
Spatio-Temporal Reconstruction for Agriculture. arXiv preprint arXiv:1610.02482.
Duan, T., Chapman, S.C., Holland, E., Rebetzke, G.J., Guo, Y., Zheng, B., 2016. Dynamic
quantification of canopy structure to characterize early plant vigour in wheat geno-
types. J. Exp. Bot. 67 (15), 4523–4534.
Fernandez, M.G.S., Bao, Y., Tang, L., Schnable, P.S., 2017. A high-throughput, field-based
phenotyping technology for tall biomass crops. Plant Physiol. 174 (4), 2008–2022.
Gerland, P., Raftery, A.E., Ševčíková, H., Li, N., Gu, D., Spoorenberg, T., Alkema, L.,
Fosdick, B.K., Chunn, J., Lalic, N., 2014. World population stabilization unlikely this
century. Science 346 (6206), 234–237.
Gibbs, J.A., Pound, M., French, A.P., Wells, D.M., Murchie, E., Pridmore, T., 2017.
Approaches to three-dimensional reconstruction of plant shoot topology and geo-
metry. Funct. Plant Biol. 44 (1), 62–75.
Gongal, A., Amatya, S., Karkee, M., Zhang, Q., Lewis, K., 2015. Sensors and systems for
fruit detection and localization: a review. Comput. Electron. Agric. 116, 8–19.
Guo, J., Xu, S., Yan, D., Cheng, Z., Jaeger, M., Zhang, X., 2018a. Realistic procedural plant
modeling from multiple view images. IEEE Trans. Visual Comput. Graph 1–1.
Guo, Q.H., Wu, F.F., Pang, S.X., Zhao, X.Q., Chen, L.H., Liu, J., Xue, B.L., Xu, G.C., Li, L.,
Jing, H.C., et al., 2018b. Crop 3D-a LiDAR based platform for 3D high-throughput
crop phenotyping. Sci. China-Life Sci. 61 (3), 328–339.
Huang, Y., Brand, H.J., Sui, R., Thomson, S.J., Furukawa, T., Ebelhar, M.W., 2016. Cotton
yield estimation using very high-resolution digital images acquired with a low-cost
small unmanned aerial vehicle. Trans. ASABE 59 (6), 1563–1574.
Jiang, Y., Li, C., Paterson, A., Sun, S., Xu, R., Robertson, J., 2017. Quantitative analysis of
cotton canopy size in field conditions using a consumer-grade RGB-D camera. Front.
Plant Sci. 8, 2233.
Jin, S., Su, Y., Wu, F., Pang, S., Gao, S., Hu, T., Liu, J., Guo, Q., 2018. Stem-leaf seg-
mentation and phenotypic trait extraction of individual maize using terrestrial LiDAR
data. IEEE Trans. Geosci. Remote Sens. 57 (3), 1336–1346.
Kirchgessner, N., Liebisch, F., Yu, K., Pfeifer, J., Friedli, M., Hund, A., Walter, A., 2017.
The ETH field phenotyping platform FIP: a cable-suspended multi-sensor system.
Funct. Plant Biol. 44 (1), 154.
Li, L., Zhang, Q., Huang, D.F., 2014. A review of imaging techniques for plant pheno-
typing. Sensors 14 (11), 20078–20111.
Li, Y., Cao, Z., Lu, H., Xiao, Y., Zhu, Y., Cremers, A.B., 2016. In-field cotton detection via
region-based semantic image segmentation. Comput. Electron. Agric. 127, 475–486.
Li, Y., Cao, Z., Xiao, Y., Cremers, A.B., 2017. DeepCotton: in-field cotton segmentation
using deep fully convolutional network. J. Electron. Imaging 26 (5), 053028.
Lin, Y., 2015. LiDAR: An important tool for next-generation phenotyping technology of
high potential for plant phenomics? Comput. Electron. Agric. 119, 61–73.
Malambo, L., Popescu, S., Horne, D., Pugh, N., Rooney, W., 2019. Automated detection
and measurement of individual sorghum panicles using density-based clustering of
terrestrial lidar data. ISPRS J. Photogramm. Remote Sens. 149, 1–13.
Malik, Z., Ziauddin, S., Shahid, A.R., Safi, A., 2016. Detection and counting of on-tree
citrus fruit for crop yield estimation. Int. J. Adv. Comput. Sci. Appl. 7 (5), 519–523.
Mathan, J., Bhattacharya, J., Ranjan, A., 2016. Enhancing crop yield by optimizing plant
developmental features. Development 143 (18), 3283–3294.
Miller, N.D., Haase, N.J., Lee, J., Kaeppler, S.M., de Leon, N., Spalding, E.P., 2017. A
robust, high-throughput method for computing maize ear, cob, and kernel attributes
automatically from images. Plant J. 89 (1), 169–178.
Munoz, D., 2013. Inference Machines Parsing Scenes via Iterated Predictions. PhD thesis.
Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
Nguyen, T.T., Slaughter, D.C., Max, N., Maloof, J.N., Sinha, N., 2015. Structured light-
based 3D reconstruction system for plants. Sensors 15 (8), 18587–18612.
Pajares, G., 2015. Overview and current status of remote sensing applications based on
unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs). Photogramm. Eng. Remote Sens. 81 (4), 281–329.
Papon, J., Abramov, A., Schoeler, M., Wörgötter, F., 2013. Voxel cloud connectivity
segmentation-supervoxels for point clouds. In: 2013 IEEE conference on computer
vision and pattern recognition (CVPR). IEEE, Portland, Oregon, USA, pp. 2027–2034.
Paulus, S., Schumann, H., Kuhlmann, H., Léon, J., 2014. High-precision laser scanning
system for capturing 3D plant architecture and analysing growth of cereal plants.
Biosyst. Eng. 121, 1–11.
Pearse, G.D., Watt, M.S., Morgenroth, J., 2016. Comparison of optical LAI measurements
under diffuse and clear skies after correcting for scattered radiation. Agric. For.
Meteorol. 221, 61–70.
Pérez-Zavala, R., Torres-Torriti, M., Cheein, F.A., Troni, G., 2018. A pattern recognition
strategy for visual grape bunch detection in vineyards. Comput. Electron. Agric. 151,
136–149.
Qi, C.R., Yi, L., Su, H., Guibas, L.J., 2017. Pointnet++: Deep hierarchical feature
learning on point sets in a metric space. Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems. Long Beach, California, USA, pp. 5105–5114.
Ritchie, G.L., Bednarz, C.W., Jost, P.H., Brown, S.M., 2007. Cotton growth and devel-
opment. Bulletin 1252. Cooperative Extension Service and the University of Georgia
College of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences, Athens, GA.
Rusu, R.B., 2010. Semantic 3D object maps for everyday manipulation in human living
environments. KI-Künstliche Intelligenz 24 (4), 345–348.
Rusu, R.B., Blodow, N., Beetz, M., 2009. Fast point feature histograms (FPFH) for 3D
registration. In: IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation. IEEE,
Kobe, Japan, pp. 3212–3217.
Sankaran, S., Khot, L.R., Espinoza, C.Z., Jarolmasjed, S., Sathuvalli, V.R., Vandemark,
G.J., Miklas, P.N., Carter, A.H., Pumphrey, M.O., Knowles, N.R., et al., 2015. Low-
altitude, high-resolution aerial imaging systems for row and field crop phenotyping: a
review. Eur. J. Agron. 70, 112–123.
Sharma, B., Mills, C.I., Snowden, C., Ritchie, G.L., 2015. Contribution of boll mass and
boll number to irrigated cotton yield. Agron. J. 107 (5), 1845–1853.
Si, Y., Liu, G., Feng, J., 2015. Location of apples in trees using stereoscopic vision.
Comput. Electron. Agric. 112, 68–74.
Stein, M., Bargoti, S., Underwood, J., 2016. Image based mango fruit detection, locali-
sation and yield estimation using multiple view geometry. Sensors 16 (11), 1915.
Sun, S., Li, C., Paterson, A., Jiang, Y., Robertson, J., 2018a. 3D computer vision and
machine learning based technique for high throughput cotton boll mapping under
field conditions. In: 2018 ASABE Annual International Meeting. American Society of
Agricultural and Biological Engineers, pp. 1–10.
Sun, S., Li, C., Paterson, A., Jiang, Y., Xu, R., Robertson, J., Snider, J., 2018b. In-field high
throughput phenotyping and cotton plant growth analysis using LiDAR. Front. Plant
Sci. 9, 1–17.
Tao, Y., Zhou, J., 2017. Automatic apple recognition based on the fusion of color and 3D
S. Sun, et al.
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 160 (2020) 195–207
206

feature for robotic fruit picking. Comput. Electron. Agric. 142, 388–396.
Tester, M., Langridge, P., 2010. Breeding technologies to increase crop production in a
changing world. Science 327 (5967), 818–822.
Thompson, A., Conrad, A., Conley, M., Shrock, H., Taft, B., Miksch, C., Mills, T., Dyer, J.,
2018. Professor: a motorized field-based phenotyping cart. HardwareX 4, 1–10.
Toda, L.L., Yokingco, J.C.E., Paringit, E.C., Lasco, R.D.J.A.g., 2017. A LiDAR-based flood
modelling approach for mapping rice cultivation areas in Apalit, Pampanga. Appl.
Geogr. 80, 34–47.
Townsend, T., Sette, J., 2016. Natural fibres and the world economy. In: Natural Fibres:
Advances in Science and Technology towards Industrial Applications. Springer, pp.
381–390.
USDA, 2018. Crop Production Historical Track Records. National Agricultural Statistics
Service. https://www.nass.usda.gov/Publications/Todays_Reports/reports/croptr18.
pdf.
Vapnik, V., 2013. The Nature of Statistical Learning Theory. Springer Science & Business
Media, New York, USA.
Vazquez-Arellano, M., Griepentrog, H.W., Reiser, D., Paraforos, D.S., 2016. 3-D imaging
systems for agricultural applications-a review. Sensors 16 (5), 24.
Velumani, K., Elberink, S.O., Yang, M.Y., Baret, F., 2017. Wheat ear detection in plots by
segmenting mobile laser scanner data. ISPRS Ann. Photogramm. Remote Sens. Spat.
Inform. Sci. IV-2/W4, 149–156.
Verdoja, F., Thomas, D., Sugimoto, A., 2017. Fast 3D point cloud segmentation using
supervoxels with geometry and color for 3D scene understanding. In: IEEE
International Conference on Multimedia and Expo (ICME). IEEE, Hong Kong, pp.
1285–1290.
Wallace, L., Hillman, S., Reinke, K., Hally, B., 2017. Non-destructive estimation of above-
ground surface and near-surface biomass using 3D terrestrial remote sensing tech-
niques. Meth. Ecol. Evol. 8, 1607–1616.
Wang, C.L., Zou, X.J., Tang, Y.C., Luo, L.F., Feng, W.X., 2016a. Localisation of litchi in an
unstructured environment using binocular stereo vision. Biosyst. Eng. 145, 39–51.
Wang, L.A., Zhou, X.D., Zhu, X.K., Dong, Z.D., Guo, W.S., 2016b. Estimation of biomass in
wheat using random forest regression algorithm and remote sensing data. Crop J. 4
(3), 212–219.
Wierzchoń, S.T., Kłopotek, M., 2018. Modern Algorithms of Cluster Analysis. Springer,
Switzerland.
Wolf, D., Prankl, J., Vincze, M., 2015. Fast semantic segmentation of 3D point clouds
using a dense CRF with learned parameters. In: 2015 IEEE International Conference
on Robotics and Automation (ICRA). IEEE, pp. 4867–4873.
Xu, R., Li, C.Y., Paterson, A.H., 2019. Multispectral imaging and unmanned aerial systems
for cotton plant phenotyping. PLoS ONE 14 (2).
Yin, X., Liu, X., Chen, J., Kramer, D.M., 2018. Joint multi-leaf segmentation, alignment,
and tracking for fluorescence plant videos. IEEE Trans. Patt. Anal. Mach. Intell. 40
(6), 1411–1423.
Zhou, Y., Tuzel, O., 2017. VoxelNet: end-to-end learning for point cloud based 3D object
detection. In: IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition.
IEEE, Salt Lake City, UT, USA, pp. 1–10.
S. Sun, et al.
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 160 (2020) 195–207
207
