ORIGINAL RESEARCH
published: 09 June 2022
doi: 10.3389/fpls.2022.864458
Edited by:
Lei Shu,
Nanjing Agricultural University, China
Reviewed by:
Abbas Ateﬁ,
California Polytechnic State University,
United States
Yunchao Tang,
Guangxi University, China
*Correspondence:
Liancheng Xu
lchxu@163.com
Weikuan Jia
jwk_1982@163.com
Specialty section:
This article was submitted to
Sustainable and Intelligent
Phytoprotection,
a section of the journal
Frontiers in Plant Science
Received: 28 January 2022
Accepted: 26 April 2022
Published: 09 June 2022
Citation:
Sun M, Xu L, Luo R, Lu Y and
Jia W (2022) Fast Location
and Recognition of Green Apple
Based on RGB-D Image.
Front. Plant Sci. 13:864458.
doi: 10.3389/fpls.2022.864458
Fast Location and Recognition of
Green Apple Based on RGB-D Image
Meili Sun1, Liancheng Xu1*, Rong Luo2, Yuqi Lu1 and Weikuan Jia1,3*
1 School of Information Science and Engineering, Shandong Normal University, Jinan, China, 2 State Key Laboratory of
Biobased Materials and Green Papermaking, Qilu University of Technology (Shandong Academy of Sciences), Jinan, China,
3 Key Laboratory of Facility Agriculture Measurement and Control Technology and Equipment of Machinery Industry,
Zhenjiang, China
In the process of green apple harvesting or yield estimation, affected by the factors, such
as fruit color, light, and orchard environment, the accurate recognition and fast location
of the target fruit brings tremendous challenges to the vision system. In this article, we
improve a density peak cluster segmentation algorithm for RGB images with the help
of a gradient ﬁeld of depth images to locate and recognize target fruit. Speciﬁcally, the
image depth information is adopted to analyze the gradient ﬁeld of the target image.
The vorticity center and two-dimensional plane projection are constructed to realize the
accurate center location. Next, an optimized density peak clustering algorithm is applied
to segment the target image, where a kernel density estimation is utilized to optimize
the segmentation algorithm, and a double sort algorithm is applied to efﬁciently obtain
the accurate segmentation area of the target image. Finally, the segmentation area with
the circle center is the target fruit area, and the maximum value method is employed to
determine the radius. The above two results are merged to achieve the contour ﬁtting of
the target fruits. The novel method is designed without iteration, classiﬁer, and several
samples, which has greatly improved operating efﬁciency. The experimental results show
that the presented method signiﬁcantly improves accuracy and efﬁciency. Meanwhile,
this new method deserves further promotion.
Keywords: green target fruit, center location, density peak clustering, kernel density estimation, RGB-D image
INTRODUCTION
The machine vision system, employed to realize the localization and recognition of target fruits, has
been widely applied in agricultural production processes, such as apple orchard yield estimation
(Maheswari et al., 2021), apple automatic harvesting (Jia et al., 2020a), and fruit growth monitoring
(Genno and Kobayashi, 2019). How to achieve accurate recognition and fast location of target fruits
will directly aﬀect the reliability and real-time performance of automated operations. This is also
the key to research, which has attracted the attention of many domestic and foreign scholars. In
the recent years, whether it is with the help of the monocular vision system (Zhang et al., 2017) or
binocular vision system (Si et al., 2015), a single fruit (Silwal et al., 2017) or overlapping occluded
fruit (Lv et al., 2019b), a static target (Häni et al., 2020a), or a dynamic target (He et al., 2017), it
has made great progress in recognition, and most of these studies are implemented with red apples
as the harvesting target. However, many types of apples are green apples, such as white winter
Pearmain and Granny Smith. Because the color of the fruit is similar to the color of the background
branches and leaves, it is diﬃcult to recognize and locate the target fruit. Besides, aﬀected by factors,
Frontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org
1
June 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 864458

Sun et al.
Fruit Recognition by RGB-D Image
such as complicated unstructured orchard environment and the
blurred borders of irregular bright areas, the performance of
visual system is relatively not good.
It is very necessary to improve the recognition and location
eﬃciency of green apples and further improve the automated
assembly level of the vision system in agricultural production
management. Accurate location and fast recognition of green
target fruit become a new challenge. With the joint eﬀorts of
many scholars, certain progress has been made (Lv et al., 2019a;
Sun et al., 2019; Behera et al., 2020; Ji et al., 2020). It is diﬃcult
to recognize green apples only from the perspective of color, and
it needs to be processed or try other features. Therefore, Zhang
used a color camera equipped with a ring ﬂash to capture images
of apple trees. By analyzing the feature diﬀerence between the
green apple areas and the similar-color background, a classiﬁer
was designed based on color features to recognize the green
apples in the near-color background. The recognition success
rate reached 89.3%, and the algorithm took 3.14s on average
(Zhang et al., 2014).
To recognize the same color fruits under unstable light
and the occlusion of branches and leaves, Barnea proposed a
3D detection model based on RGB color features and related
shape features (Barnea et al., 2016), where the mean average
precision of recognition reached 55%. Li DH et al. presented
an improved spectral clustering algorithm based on mean shift
and sparse matrix to recognize overlapping green apples and the
algorithm improved the running speed (Li et al., 2019), The high
coincidence degree of the optimized spectral clustering algorithm
reached 95.41%, and the false detection rate is 3.05%. Gaussian
linear ﬁtting on the foreground images of the green apples was
adopted under the V channel, and threshold segmentation was
used to segment the images (Li et al., 2018), which was 91.84%
of the recognition rate. The gPb-OWT-UCM edge detection
algorithm was applied in the green apple detection model based
on the SUN saliency detection mechanism by Wang, which
can obtain complete and accurate green apple segmentation
images (Wang et al., 2019). The above method reached accurate
segmentation with average sensitivity, false-positive rate, false-
negative rate, and overlapped rate of 8.4, 0.8, 7.5, and 90.5%,
respectively. The segmentation time of each apple image was
around 37.1 s. All these methods merged corresponding texture
features through color features. Due to the changes in light
intensity and angle, the boundary between the target fruit and
the background is blurred, and the recognition eﬀect is not
ideal. Aﬀected by factors, such as occlusion of branches and
leaves and overlapping between fruits, some features are absent,
which makes the recognition diﬃcult. Some algorithms have high
time and space complexity, and it is diﬃcult to meet real-time
operation requirements.
With the rapid development of deep learning theory, end-to-
end automatic detection process based on deep networks and
the advantages of deep extraction of image features (Kamilaris
and Prenafeta-Boldú, 2018; Koirala et al., 2019; Zhao et al., 2019;
Tang et al., 2020) bring a new perspective for recognizing green
apples. A multi-scale multilayer perceptron and a convolutional
neural network (CNN) were applied to segment apple images
and extract the apple target by Bargoti, where the apple target
was recognized and counted by the watershed segmentation and
the circular Hough transform method (Bargoti and Underwood,
2017), where F1-score reached 85.8%. To accurately locate
the tomato fruit under the complex scenes, Liu improved
the YOLOv3 one-stage target detection model to predict the
circular areas (Liu et al., 2020), and the precision and times
of YOLO-Tomato were 94.75% and 54 ms. Jia optimized the
Mask R-CNN to adapt to the detection of apple targets, where
the residual neural network (ResNet) and dense convolutional
network (DenseNet) were combined as the feature extraction
network of the original model that the precision and recall rate
have reached 97.31 and 95.70%, respectively (Jia et al., 2020b).
Li proposed an ensemble U-Net segmentation model, and the
high-level semantic features of U-Net and the edge features of
Edge were integrated to retain multi-scale contextual information
and realize eﬃcient segmentation of target fruit (Li et al., 2021),
where the recognition rate reached 95.11% and the recognition
speed was 0.39 s. A modiﬁed YOLOv3 model based on clustering
optimization is designed, and the inﬂuence of front-lighting and
backlighting is clariﬁed to detect and recognize banana fruits,
inﬂorescence axes, and ﬂower buds by Wu et al. (2021). To
recognize and detect plant diseases, Chen et al. (2022) proposed
an improved plant disease-recognition model based on the
YOLOv5 network model via a new involution bottleneck module,
an SE module, and an eﬃcient intersection over union loss
function to optimize the performance of target detection, where
mean average precision reached 70%. A DaSNet-V2 network
structure was proposed by Kang, visual sensors were used for
real-time detection and instance segmentation of orchard apples,
and the branches were segmented. Visual sensors were applied
in ﬁeld trials, and the experimental results showed that the
presented method was eﬃcient and reliable (Kang and Chen,
2020), where the precision of detection, fruit segmentation,
and branch segmentation achieved 0.844, 0.858, and 0.795,
and computational time was 30 and 265 ms on GTX-1080Ti
and Jetson-TX2, respectively. To improve the performance of
apple detection, a deep learning method approach based on the
adaptive training sample selection (ATSS) was applied to close-
range and low-cost terrestrial RGB images (Biﬃet al., 2020).
In addition, considering the lack of public datasets in the ﬁeld
of fruit detection, the MinneApple benchmark dataset (Häni
et al., 2020b) and KFuji RGB-DS dataset (Gené-Mola et al.,
2019) are publicly used to study fruit detection and segmentation.
The MinneApple benchmark dataset is designed and published
for detection and segmentation. The KFuji RGB-DS dataset is
presented, containing 967 multi-modal images and 12,839 Fuji
apples. Although the recognition accuracy of the target fruit
is high based on deep learning, it has high requirements for
machine hardware and requires a large number of training
samples. In the actual operation process, it is diﬃcult to meet
these conditions one by one.
For the above problems, with the help of gradient information
of depth images, an improved density peak cluster segmentation
method of RGB images is proposed to fast location and accurate
recognition of green apples based on RGB-D image information.
The depth image of the apple is used to obtain the center of
the target fruit and determine the location of the target fruit.
Frontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org
2
June 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 864458

Sun et al.
Fruit Recognition by RGB-D Image
To obtain the target fruit area, an optimized density clustering
segmentation algorithm is introduced to segment the RGB image
of the apple. Next, the depth and RGB images are combined
by scanning the maximum radius of the segmented area where
the circle center is located, and the target fruit contour is
ﬁtted to realize the eﬃcient recognition and location of green
apples. The new method applies the process of locating the
circle center ﬁrst and then recognizing, breaking the traditional
method of recognizing ﬁrst and then locating. Meanwhile, the
new method is designed without iteration and a classiﬁer, which
eﬀectively improves the eﬃciency of recognizing and locating
the target fruit. In addition, the new method can complete
the algorithm training for small sample datasets, greatly saving
sample processing time. To summarize, our contributions to this
article are as follows.
(1) The depth image information is applied to locate the fruit
center via the idea of vorticity.
(2) An optimized density peak cluster segmentation method
based on kernel estimation is designed to segment RGB
images without subjective judgment.
(3) Experimental results outperform the other state-of-the-
art models in accuracy and eﬃciency for green fruit
recognition and detection.
The rest of this article is organized as follows. In section
“Materials and Methods,” image acquisition and ideas of this
article are introduced. In section “The Center Location of the
Target Fruit,” we describe in detail how to use depth information
to locate the target fruit. Section “Target Area Segmentation”
illuminates how to apply color image information to segment the
target. Section “Fitting of Target Fruit” is to ﬁt the target fruit
according to the fast-locating result of the depth image and the
segmentation result of the color information. In section “Results
and Discussion”, the experiments, including the experimental
design and result analysis, are conducted and experimental
results can be discussed. The conclusion is presented in section
“Conclusion.”
MATERIALS AND METHODS
Image Acquisition
Image acquisition location: Longwangshan apple production
base in the Fushan District, Yantai City, Shandong Province
(the agricultural information technology experimental base
of Shandong Normal University). All images were collected
under natural light.
Image acquisition device: Kinect V2 (Microsoft). The RGB
images have a resolution of 1,920 by 1,080 pixels whereas the
depth images have a resolution of 512 by 424 pixels. All RGB
images and depth images were stored in the bitmap (BMP)
format. The distance range from the camera lens to the target is
0.5–4.5 m. When the Kinect camera acquired the depth image, it
collected each point in the ﬁeld of view and forms a depth image
representing the surrounding environment.
Apple category: Gala. Fruits were in an immature status
before harvesting.
Image acquisition mode: To imitate the actual monitoring
environment, a tripod was used to ﬁx the Kinect V2 camera
angle. Kinect SDK 2.0 software was applied to capture the RGB-
D images from the same angle. The color and depth images were
saved in Portable Network Graphics (PNG) format. For the same
fruits, we collected the images from diﬀerent angles, including
a single target, branch and leaf occlusion, or overlapped fruits.
To facilitate image fusion, the resolution of all RGB images was
adjusted to be the same as the resolution of the depth image 512
by 424 pixels. The images of green apples in actual environments,
such as single fruits, overlapping fruits, and occlusion fruits, are
shown in Figure 1.
The Method and Ideas of This Article
Based on the features of green apples, this article proposes a
method for fast location and recognition of the green target fruit
by the depth images (Choi et al., 2017) and RGB images of the
target fruit. The depth image is utilized to ﬁnd the center location
of the target fruit and realize the eﬀective location of the target
fruits. Then, an RGB image is applied to segment fruits and
background and obtain the target fruit area. Finally, the depth
images and the RGB images are merged into a segmented area
with the circle center as the target fruit, realizing the location and
recognition of the target fruit. The overview of the new method is
shown in Figure 2. The new method has two branches: locating
the center of the target fruit through the depth image; segmenting
the target fruit area from the RGB image.
For the depth image, the depth information of the target image
is analyzed to draw an iso-contour map of the depth image
and obtain the gradient ﬁeld information of the target image.
The three-dimensional gradient information of the target fruit
is projected to the two-dimensional. To achieve the accurate
location of the target fruit, the two-dimensional gradient vector
is rotated 90◦in the clockwise direction. It found that vorticities
of the target fruit are relatively regular and orderly, whereas
background regions present divergent and irregular states.
According to the geometric meaning of the depth image, the
center of each vorticity is viewed as the center of the target fruit.
A density peak clustering segmentation algorithm based on
kernel density estimation is proposed in RGB images. First, a
kernel density estimation method is applied to calculate the local
density and diﬀerence in each data point in a non-parametric
way. Note that a super-pixel segmentation algorithm is applied
to segment images into blocks to convert images from pixel-level
representation to area-level representation, which can reduce the
number of data points and the amount of calculation. Then, a
decision graph is constructed to separate the cluster centers and
other data points. Next, a double sorting algorithm is adopted to
automatically ﬁnd the cluster centers, achieving the green target
fruit segmentation.
Based on the center of the target fruit and the target fruit
segmented area, the center of the target fruit is merged with
the segmented area. Speciﬁcally, the segmented areas located in
the circle center are considered as the green target fruits; the
maximum value method is employed to obtain the radius of the
target fruit. Finally, the contour of the target fruit is ﬁtted to
Frontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org
3
June 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 864458

Sun et al.
Fruit Recognition by RGB-D Image
realize the location and recognition of the target fruit through the
circle centers and its corresponding radius.
THE CENTER LOCATION OF THE
TARGET FRUIT
Traditional target fruit location is mostly to segment the
target fruit area ﬁrst and then ﬁnd the circle center through
morphological
methods.
The
location,
detection,
and
segmentation results mentioned by these methods in the
Introduction section are not accurate enough and the calculation
amount is relatively large. In complex unstructured orchard
environments, the accurate location of the target fruit is still
an unsolved problem, and the locating of the green target
fruit is even more challenging. This study introduces the
depth information of the target fruits and applies the spatial
information of the images to ﬁnd the centers of the green apples.
Contour Image Acquisition
The Kinect camera can directly obtain the distance information
between the target and lens. Based on the imaging principle of the
depth sensor, the pixel closer to the camera has a smaller distance
value. The smaller distance value of the target corresponds to the
smaller pixel value. The larger distance value of the surrounding
background corresponds to the larger pixel value. Therefore, the
pixels of the same value in the depth image are ﬁtted to a closed
curve. These curves can be projected onto a two-dimensional
plane. Finally, the depth contour of the target image is obtained,
that is, the depth of the pixels on the same depth contour is equal.
For the iso-contour map, a simple smoothing ﬁltering process
is performed. The three-dimensional geometric characteristics of
the target are calculated through the mapped depth information.
The depth of the image is drawn with a certain depth diﬀerence.
Figure 1A will be an example to elaborate on the fast location and
accurate recognition of green apples, as shown in Figure 3.
Depth Image Gradient Information
According to the principle of the depth sensor, the smallest pixel
from the objects to the camera has the smallest distance value.
As shown in Figure 3, the depth value of the central area of the
target fruit is less than that of the non-central area of the target
fruit based on the numerical characteristics of the depth image.
Therefore, the depth information of the target depth image can
be quantiﬁed by the gradient ﬁeld theory. A vector −→
V can be
constructed.
−→
V = ∇D =
∂D
∂x , ∂D
∂y , ∂D
∂z

= (u, v, w)
(1)
where −→
V represents a set of vectors (u, v, w) on the gradient
vector ﬁeld in three-dimensional space; u, v, w are partial
derivatives of depth D in the x, y, z directions in three-
dimensional coordinates, respectively, obtaining the gradient
direction of the target fruits. Since the surface of the target fruit is
convex, the 3D gradient ﬁeld information can be projected onto
the 2D plane. In other words, only the x and y directions are
considered.
−→
V = ∇D =
∂D
∂x , ∂D
∂y

= (u, v)
(2)
where u, v represent the partial derivatives of the gradient ﬁeld D
in the x, y directions, respectively, which can obtain the gradient
direction of the target fruit. Then, the direction vector on the 2D
plane is obtained, which diverges outward along the apple surface
in the gradient ﬁeld, as shown in Figure 4.
In Figure 4, it can be found that the obtained direction vector
presents a state of outward divergence in a relatively orderly way
for the relatively regular target fruit area. Due to the complex
FIGURE 1 | Apple images of RGB and depth images collected at the same sample point (note: panels (A,B) are single fruits without obscured; (C) are overlapping
fruits; (D) are occlusion fruits; top images of every group represent the RGB image and bottom images represent depth images). The number of images: This study
collected a total of 300 sample points data, including 300 depth images and 300 RGB images and containing 526 target fruits in the dataset.
Frontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org
4
June 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 864458

Sun et al.
Fruit Recognition by RGB-D Image
FIGURE 2 | The overview of our method.
background and the slightly disordered depth information, the
vector projection is more chaotic in the non-target fruit area. In
other words, the more regular the target fruit is, the more orderly
the vector projection is. The more complex the background is, the
more disorderly the vectors are.
Center Location
Enlighted by dynamic vorticity, we apply the vorticity center
of the target depth image as the fruit centers. Speciﬁcally, the
vorticity is a 3D vector, and a pixel angular velocity (only
direction) is introduced through the adjacent vectors.
−→
ω′ = ∇×
⇀
V =
 ∂
∂x, ∂
∂y, ∂
∂z

× (u, v, 0) =
∂u
∂x −∂v
∂y

⇀z
(3)
where ∇is a partial derivative operator in x, y, z directions, and
⇀z represents a direction vector on the z-axis.
Since the rate of change of the vortex size increases from the
edge to the center of the circle, the vectors in the gradient ﬁeld are
spliced into a similar arc shape. If the vector size is the same, the
angular velocity is deﬁned as follows:
ω = φ
t
(4)
where φ represents the size of the arc length (similar to the size of
the vector), and t represents the same time.
When gradient vectors with convex parabola are rotated in
the same direction, a similar convergent vortex is formed in the
position of vorticity maximum value and fruit center. In other
words, the gradient vector of the primitive concave paraboloid
is rotated 90◦in a clockwise direction, and it becomes divergent
and disordered. The maximum vorticity of the fruit area can
be calculated at the center point of the fastest distance change,
namely, the center of the target fruit. Further, the gradient vector
of the fruit center area is a convex parabola center with such
a characteristic: the vorticity of the central region of the fruit
is greater than that of the surrounding region. In other words,
the vorticity value of the fruit gradually decreases from the
fruit center to the fruits boundary. Therefore, this geometric
characteristic causes the gradient vector ﬁeld plot of apples in
2D appeared to stretch out from the center of the apples to
the direction of its closest perimeter pixel. The center of the
vorticity can be projected onto a 2D plane, and the gradient
vector is rotated in the same direction along the depth contour.
The central location is the center of the target fruit, as shown in
Figure 5.
It can be found that the vorticity centers of the regular area
are the centers of the target fruits after rotation of the gradient
vector in Figure 5. This method can rapidly locate the centers of
the target fruits.
TARGET AREA SEGMENTATION
For green apple image segmentation, it is diﬃcult to achieve
accurate
segmentation
by
traditional
image
segmentation
algorithms that only rely on color features due to the closeness
of color between fruit skin and branches or leaves in the
background. In this article, a density peak clustering algorithm
is introduced to segment fruit area and background. To obtain
a clearer segmentation boundary without human interference,
FIGURE 3 | Contours of the depth image.
Frontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org
5
June 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 864458

Sun et al.
Fruit Recognition by RGB-D Image
FIGURE 4 | Two-dimensional plane projection of gradient ﬁeld.
a kernel density estimation method is utilized to optimize the
clustering segmentation algorithm.
The main idea of the density peaks clustering algorithm
(DPCA) (Rodriguez and Laio, 2014) is to judge the class that it
belongs to by the neighboring points. The density of each class
center point is greater than the density of neighboring points and
this class center point is far enough away from the center points of
other classes. Therefore, two main parameters are involved in the
DPCA: the local density of data points and the distance between
high-density points.
Image Block Segmentation
The basis of the clustering algorithm is to calculate the distance
between data points, which can be transformed into the
description of the feature components of the data points, and
the feature components determine the distribution relationship
of the data points in the feature space. In the ﬁeld of image
segmentation, the pixel points of the image are the data points
in the clustering algorithm. However, pixels considered as the
calculation unit consume a lot of calculation space and time.
Therefore, an image is divided into blocks, and the image blocks
are applied as data points for clustering segmentation, which can
greatly reduce the amount of calculation. The most common
method of image block division is super-pixel segmentation,
which uses the simple linear iterative clustering (SLIC) (Achanta
et al., 2012) super-pixel segmentation algorithm for gathering
similar pixels in a small area to form irregular blocks.
Considering the small color diﬀerence between the target fruit
and the background, we convert RGB color space into the L∗a∗b
color space emphasizing color change before using the SLIC
algorithm. The cluster center is initialized to Ck, and the iteration
step is initialized to S. S can be formulated as follows:
S =
r
N
k
(5)
where N is the number of image pixels and k is the number of
blocks. To prevent the cluster center from falling on the edge
of the image, the gradient value of each pixel is calculated in
the 3 by 3 neighborhood of the cluster center, and the center
is moved to the pixel with the smallest gradient. Next, iterative
optimization is performed. To save computing time, the color and
spatial distance are calculated, where the distance Dis between
each pixel and the cluster center is calculated the 2S by 2S the
neighborhood around the center point.



dc =
q
(li −lj)2 + (ai −aj)2 + (bi −bj)2
ds =
q
(xi −xj)2 + (yi −yj)2
(6)
FIGURE 5 | Location of target fruits circle center (gradient vectors are uniformly rotated 90◦clockwise).
Frontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org
6
June 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 864458

Sun et al.
Fruit Recognition by RGB-D Image
FIGURE 6 | SLIC super-pixel segmentation effect.
The distance Dis between each pixel and cluster center is
constructed as follows:
Dis =
s
(dc)2 +
ds
S
2
m2
(7)
where l, a, b are Lab space values, x, y are pixel coordinates,
and m is the maximum possible value of Lab space distance. Each
pixel updates the image block to which it belongs. The cluster
center is updated by averaging the pixels of the same block until
the center point no longer moves.
The SLIC image block segmentation algorithm considers the
color and space features of the image and deﬁnes the search range
of 2S by 2S eﬀectively reducing the computation complexity of the
DPCA. Finally, the target image block eﬀect map is presented, as
shown in Figure 6.
It can be seen from Figure 6 that the image block is applied to
represent the green apple image, which maintains the consistency
of the original pixel points. These irregular blocks do not destroy
the original image representation structure. Meanwhile, the
target image is represented from the pixel level to the block level,
which indicates that the conversion loss is small. Each irregular
image block replaces pixels with the basic unit of the DPCA,
which will greatly reduce the number of data points.
Feature Component Selection
After the target image is divided into image blocks, the eﬀect
of its shape and texture features is greatly reduced. Therefore,
the feature component of the block is constructed in the unit
of the super-pixel feature block as the feature components of
the data points. Considering the closeness of color between the
target fruit skin and the background, the color information of the
target image is decomposed in the RGB color space to analyze
features from diﬀerent color channels to better select proper
feature components, as shown in Figure 7.
FIGURE 7 | The RGB components corresponding to different scenes in the
image (note: the red line represents the R component; the green line
represents the G component; the blue line is the B component; the three lines
are the RGB components corresponding to the pixels in the black horizontal
dashed line).
It can be observed that the target fruit area in the green apple
image has signiﬁcant performance in the R and G channels,
but is not obvious in the B channel in Figure 7. For the G
channel, it is diﬃcult to distinguish branches and leaves from
the background. The performance of the B channel is not
obvious for background branches and leaves and the target apple
loses its signiﬁcance. Therefore, R-B and G-B super-pixels are
used to represent the image block features of the target image
segmentation. Based on the image block, the R-B and G-B mean
values are applied as the feature components of the data points
to construct the feature space of the green apple target image
through the density clustering segmentation algorithm, as shown
in Figure 8.
The diﬀerent colors of the data points represent the three
classes obtained after clustering in Figure 8, where red, green,
and yellow points represent green fruits, leaves, and branches,
respectively. The boundary between the diﬀerent clusters is not
obvious and the shape is irregular. The data points of the
boundary area are relatively scattered. Traditional clustering
algorithms are diﬃcult to deal with clustering problems with
fuzzy boundaries, and low-density area boundaries are only
presented inside the feature space.
Density Peak Clustering Segmentation
Algorithm
The DPCA algorithm can ﬁnd out the high-density areas
segmented by low-density areas and obtain arbitrary-shaped
clusters. The cluster centers are ﬁxed, where the data points
belong to the clusters with the closest distance and greater local
density. DPCA meets two assumptions: the local density of the
cluster center (density peak point) is greater than the density of
surrounding data points; the distance between diﬀerent cluster
centers is relatively far. To ﬁnd the class center that meets the
two conditions at the same time, the local density ρi of each
data point xi and the distance δi from each data point xi to the
data point xj are calculated, where the local density of the data
Frontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org
7
June 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 864458

Sun et al.
Fruit Recognition by RGB-D Image
FIGURE 8 | The feature space of the mean value of R-B and G-B.
point xj is greater than that local density of data point xi and the
distance is the closest.
The distance between two data points is calculated by
Euclidean distance and is written as follows:
dij =
v
u
u
t
Dim
X
d=1
(xi −xj)2
(8)
where Dim represents the spatial dimension.
The local density ρi of the data point xi is deﬁned as follows:
ρi =
X
j
χ(dij −dc)
(9)
where dc is the cutoﬀdistance that needs to be set manually.
χ(x) =
 1 x ≤0
0 x > 0 , indicates the number of data points with a
distance less than dc from the i-th data point as the true density
of the data points xi.
The distance δi from data point xi to the nearest data point xj
whose local density is greater than xi is deﬁned as
δi =
(
min
 dij

,
ρj > ρi
max
 dij

,
ρj ≤ρi
(10)
The value with the smallest distance xi in the data points with
larger local density than data point is found. If the local density
of the data point xi is the largest, the maximum distance between
xj and xi is selected.
Combining the above parameters, the basic principles and
steps of DPCA segmentation are described as follows:
Step 1: the Euclidean distance dij between any two data points
are calculated;
Step 2: the cutoﬀdistance dc is set, and the local density ρi of
data point xi and distance δi are calculated;
Step 3: a clustering decision graph is drawn with the local
density ρi as the horizontal axis and the distance δi as the vertical
axis;
Step 4: the data points with high values of ρi and δi are marked
as cluster centers for the decision graph and points with relatively
small values ρi but relatively large values of δi as noise points;
Step 5: each remaining data point is assigned to its nearest
neighbor and the class of the data point with greater density until
all data points are allocated.
The algorithm idea of DPCA segmentation is much more
intuitive. It can quickly ﬁnd the density peak point and can
eﬃciently complete the sample allocation and noise point
recognition. The segmentation algorithm can quickly complete
clustering without iteration and has high operating eﬃciency.
However, the segmentation performance is restricted by the
cutoﬀdistance to a certain extent. The selection of cutoﬀ
distance mainly depends on the human experience. Therefore,
the selection of the clustering center has certain subjective factors.
Kernel Density Estimation Optimization
The local density ρ of data points represents the distribution
of neighboring data points in the area with the cutoﬀdistance
as the radius in the feature space. The selection of the cutoﬀ
distance will directly aﬀect the clustering results. For the green
target fruit, if the cutoﬀdistance is not selected properly, it
will be diﬃcult to solve the boundary problem of the target
image, so a more robust calculation method is needed. This study
introduces a kernel density estimation optimization method to
evaluate the local density of data points. This estimation is a non-
parametric method, which can fully use its data characteristics to
calculate, avoiding the inﬂuence of human prior knowledge. In
other words, this method can get rid of the dependence on the
cutoﬀdistance dc.
The local density of data points is deﬁned by kernel density
estimation:
ρi(x.y) = 1
nh
n
X
i=1
Kh
x −xi
h
, y −yi
h

(11)
where Kh is the scaling kernel function, h > 0 is a smooth
parameter. A Gaussian kernel function is adopted to smooth the
peak function. Therefore, the scaling kernel function is
K
 x, y

=
1
2πσ2 exp
 
−(x −xi)2 +
 y −yi
2
2σ2
!
(12)
where, xi, yi are the mean values of the R-B area and G-B area of
the i-th image block, respectively.
The result of using Gaussian kernel density to estimate the
density distribution of the green fruit target image is shown in
Figure 9.
Based on the local density ρi and distance δi, the cluster center
is a data point with a larger local density and distance. Thus, a
decision graph with the local density ρi as the horizontal axis and
the distance δi as the vertical axis is constructed for ﬁnding cluster
centers, as shown in Figure 10.
Frontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org
8
June 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 864458

Sun et al.
Fruit Recognition by RGB-D Image
FIGURE 9 | Local density distribution of target image data points.
FIGURE 10 | Decision graph of target image clustering.
It can be seen in Figure 10 that the data points with larger
local density and distance in the decision graph are diﬀerent
cluster centers. However, the speciﬁc number of cluster centers
needs to be artiﬁcially set according to actual problems. The data
points close to the local density axis are cluster members and
their distances are small. The data points close to the distant
Frontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org
9
June 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 864458

Sun et al.
Fruit Recognition by RGB-D Image
axis are abnormal points, and the data points in the upper right
corner are outliers.
Cluster Center Optimization
For the characteristics of the DPCA segmentation algorithm and
the clustering process, the determination of non-cluster center
data points does not completely depend on the cluster center,
namely, the number of center points is not the number of ﬁnal
clusters. Considering that the complexity of the green apple
image mainly lies in the complex structure between the target
fruit and the background and the similarity of the two colors,
it brings diﬃculties to the recognition of the target fruit. The
segmentation of apple images is generally divided into three
categories: target fruit, leaves, branches, and sky.
In this article, a double sorting algorithm is employed to
automatically select the clustering center. Speciﬁcally, ﬁrst, the
local density value of all image blocks is sorted by descending
and the ﬁrst 20 image blocks are selected. Then, the distance
values selected for 20 image blocks are sorted by descending
order and the ﬁrst 15 blocks are picked. Finally, the ratio of the
number of pixels contained in each cluster and the number of
pixels in the entire image is counted to analyze, as shown in
Figure 11.
It can be seen from Figure 11 that the ﬁrst three categories
account for 91.69% of the total number of pixels and the
remaining categories of pixels account for a relatively low
proportion. The clustering error of the target fruit area is brought
by the boundary judgment and is related to the ﬁrst 3 classes.
The last 12 classes are regarded as the data non-allocation
to the cluster center, which does not aﬀect the target image
segmentation. The segmentation eﬀect obtained by the algorithm
in this article is shown in Figure 12.
According to the segmentation result, the novel method
completes the segmentation of the green target fruit and the
background. The new method has a higher operating eﬃciency
without iteration.
FITTING OF TARGET FRUIT
In the apple image, the target fruit can be regarded as a round-
like shape, which guarantees the two elements of the recognizing
and locating of the round-like target: accurate locating of the
circle center and value of the radius. Although green apples have
brought new challenges owing to the close color of the target
fruit’s skin and background, this study combines the depth and
RGB image information of the green apple to solve the problem
of recognizing and locating the green target fruit.
The center of the target fruit has been obtained in the depth
image in section “The Center Location of the Target Fruit,” and
the segmented area of the target fruit is obtained in the RGB
image in section “Target Area Segmentation.” The above two
results are merged. The target fruit area is the area where the
center is located. In this study, the maximum value method is
used to obtain the radius of the target fruit. Then, the contour
of the target fruit is ﬁtted to achieve the recognition and location
of the target fruit. For a single target fruit, the maximum distance
from the center of the circle to the edge of the region is directly
selected. For overlapping target fruits, the minimum value from
the extremum is used as the radius of the center. The process of
FIGURE 11 | The ratio of the number of pixels in each class to the total number of pixels.
Frontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org
10
June 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 864458

Sun et al.
Fruit Recognition by RGB-D Image
FIGURE 12 | Target image segmentation effect graph. (A) The left image represents the original RGB image and (B) the right image refers to the visualization result
of the density peak clustering segmentation algorithm based on kernel density estimation corresponding to the original RGB image.
FIGURE 13 | The process of determining the radius of the overlapping target fruit.
determining the maximum radius of the overlapping target fruit
is shown in Figure 13.
For overlapping target fruits, as shown in Figure 13, the
segmented connected area containing the center of the circle is
scanned to obtain six maximum vector lengths. The minimum
value as the radius corresponding to the circle center is applied to
realize the recognition and location.
Therefore, the center and radius of the circle have been
determined, and the contours of the target fruit are ﬁtted to
complete the recognition and location of the target fruit, as shown
in Figure 14.
After the new method completes the segmentation, there is no
need to extract the features of the target fruit segmentation area,
and there is no need to design a classiﬁer. The target fruit can
be determined by the central location. It can be concluded that
the recognition accuracy and eﬃciency of the novel method are
relatively high.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
Based on the above theoretical analysis, this research proposes
a new method that can achieve rapid and accurate recognition
and location of the target fruit of green apples. To better
verify the eﬀectiveness of the new algorithm, the following
experiments are conducted.
Frontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org
11
June 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 864458

Sun et al.
Fruit Recognition by RGB-D Image
FIGURE 14 | Fitting effect of target fruit.
Result Assessment
The collected 300 pairs of green apple images were used in
the experiment, including 526 target fruits. A single target
fruit, occlusions of branches and leaves, and overlapping
fruits are 287, 89, and 150, respectively. Recognition rate
and running time are used to evaluate the recognition and
location method. The recognition rates are calculated, including
overall recognition rate, single target fruit recognition rate,
obscured target fruit recognition rate, and overlapping target
fruit recognition rate. The results of our optimized method
with diﬀerent growth postures are presented in Table 1. Note
that the experimental operating platform of this study is as
follows: the host conﬁguration is equipped with an Intel Core
i5-5257 CPU clocked at 2.7GHz and 4GB of memory; the
operating environment is MATLAB R2015a installed with a
64-bit Windows 10 operating system. From Table 1, the total
recognition rate of our method can reach 96.96%, where the
recognition of fruits without obscurity is 99.3%. It can be
concluded that our method has a high recognition rate.
To better verify the performance of the new method, the
experiment is compared with the method in the literature (Li
et al., 2019; Lv et al., 2019a; Jiao et al., 2020). Meanwhile, the
performance of the new method is evaluated from the above
indicators. The results of comparative experiments with the
TABLE 1 | Correct recognition rate of three type’s fruits (%).
Model
Fruit without
obscured
Obscured
fruit
Overlapping
fruit
Total recognition
rate
Ours
99.30
95.33
92.13
96.96
Ref. 16
97.56
91.33
86.51
93.92
Ref. 12
97.91
89.33
85.39
93.35
Ref. 36
96.17
90.67
89.89
93.53
Note that the bold value represents the optimal value under a speciﬁc evaluation
metric.
TABLE 2 | Comparison of the recognition performance of each algorithm.
Model
Recognition time (ms)
Total recognition rate (%)
Ours
897
96.96
Ref. 16
1269
93.92
Ref. 12
1505
93.35
Ref. 36
1627
93.53
Note that the bold value represents the optimal value under a speciﬁc evaluation
metric.
literature (Li et al., 2019; Lv et al., 2019a; Jiao et al., 2020) are listed
in Table 1.
Further, the operating eﬃciency and recognition accuracy of
the whole new algorithm are evaluated, and the recognition time
and recognition accuracy are calculated. The results are listed in
Table 2.
It can be found from Tables 1, 2 that the eﬃciency of
recognition and location of a single unobstructed fruit with
a single branch and leaf obscured are the highest, and the
recognition rate for overlapping target fruits is slightly lower.
Based on the overall comparison eﬀect, the recognition rate
and operation eﬃciency have been greatly improved. The new
method in this article is better than other methods.
Visualization Result of Location and
Recognition
Due to the variable natural growth posture of apple fruit,
the shooting angle, and other factors, the collected target
fruit presents three postures: single unobstructed, obscured by
branches and leaves, and overlapping fruits. According to the
new method in this article, three types of samples are tested,
and the recognition results obtained are shown in Figure 15. We
can ﬁnd that a single unobstructed fruit, overlapping fruit, and
fruit occluded by branches and leaves can all recognize and locate
the target fruit.
Result Analysis
It can be seen in Figure 15 and Tables 1, 2 that for the problem
of green target fruit recognition and location, the new method
has greatly improved the accuracy and operation eﬃciency of
the recognition and location. The recognition rate of a single
target fruit can reach almost 100%, indicating that the novel
method is feasible.
In general, the novel method is designed without iteration
during the clustering and segmentation process, without
features of the segmentation area and a classiﬁer during
the recognition process. Therefore, the performance of the
novel method is greatly improved. In terms of recognition
and location accuracy, the new method can accurately locate
the center and radius of the circle. The performance is also
signiﬁcantly improved.
Limitation Discussion
Although the overall recognition rate of the target fruit is
relatively high, there is still a small problem: the recognition
accuracy of excessively overlapping target fruits is low owing
Frontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org
12
June 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 864458

Sun et al.
Fruit Recognition by RGB-D Image
FIGURE 15 | Three types of target fruit recognition and location effect (I) RGB space image, (II) depth image, (III) center position effect image, (IV) segmentation
rendering, (V) identify and location.
to the occlusion of branches and leaves for overlapping
target fruits. Speciﬁcally, when the maximum value is used
to ﬁnd the radius corresponding to the circle center in the
connected area of the segmented overlapping target fruit, the
minimum value is scanned for the occluded area of branches
and leaves, which makes it diﬃcult to obtain the optimal
radius. An excessively overlapping apple sample is shown in
Figure 16.
For
the
problem
of
diﬃculty
in
locating
the
center
of
excessively
overlapping
fruit,
we
will
consider
optimizing the method of locating the center to reduce
the
dependence
on
depth
information
during
the
FIGURE 16 | The visualization results of an excessively overlapping apple.
positioning
process,
that
is,
using
a
small
amount
of
gradient information to achieve the method of locating
the
center
of
the
circle.
In
addition,
the
RGB
image
segmentation method will be optimized to obtain smoother
segmentation boundaries.
CONCLUSION
Focusing on the problem of recognition and location of
green
apples,
this
article
proposes
a
fast
and
accurate
location and recognition method based on the fusion of
depth images and RGB images. First, the gradient ﬁeld
information in the depth image is employed to draw an
iso-level contour map and gradient vectors of the target
image. All gradient vectors are rotated in the same direction
to obtain diﬀerent vorticity. The three-dimensional depth
image is projected to the two-dimensional plane to ﬁnd
the center of vorticity. The center of vorticity is the center
of the target fruit, achieving an accurate location of the
center of the target fruit. Second, a density peak clustering
algorithm is used to segment the target fruit in the RGB
image. To get rid of the subjective factors of selecting a
cutoﬀdistance, the Gaussian kernel density estimation is
applied to optimize the algorithm. For the cluster centers,
a double sort method is utilized to select the cluster centers
automatically
to
achieve
eﬃcient
segmentation
of
target
images. Finally, the results of the two steps are merged and the
segmentation area of the circle center is just the target fruit
area. The maximum value method is applied to obtain the
Frontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org
13
June 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 864458

Sun et al.
Fruit Recognition by RGB-D Image
target fruit radius, and the contour of the target fruit is ﬁtted to
complete the eﬃcient and accurate recognition and location of
the target fruit.
The proposed method is presented without iteration during
the process of center location and clustering segmentation,
without features of the segmentation area and a classiﬁer in
the recognition process. Therefore, the running eﬃciency of the
new method is signiﬁcantly improved. In the process of center
location and radius calculation, the error is relatively small, and
thus, the recognition and location accuracy of the new method
is higher. Experimental results also show that the new method
has greatly improved the accuracy and operating eﬃciency of
recognition and location. In addition, our method is a lightweight
method that does not require high-performance servers for
computing, which can easily to transplant and embedded into the
hardware environment of the fruit picking robot or applied to
the automatic monitoring process of fruit growth. Therefore, the
new method can solve the problem of recognizing and locating
green target fruit well. The proposed method can be further
extended to the problem of rapid and accurate recognition and
location of spherical fruits, which can be used in the ﬁeld of
machine harvesting or yield estimation of spherical fruits. For
the task of fruit recognition with overlapping targets occluded by
branches and leaves, the radius calculation of the new method
is susceptible to be interference, which will be the focus of
future research.
DATA AVAILABILITY STATEMENT
The original contributions presented in this study are included
in the article/supplementary material, further inquiries can be
directed to the corresponding authors.
AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS
MS: conceptualization and writing—original draft preparation.
LX: data curation, software, and validation. RL: funding
acquisition and visualization. YL: methodology, software, and
validation. WJ: conceptualization, funding acquisition, and
writing—reviewing and editing. All authors contributed to the
article and approved the submitted version.
FUNDING
This work was supported by the National Nature Science
Foundation of China (no. 21978139), the Natural Science
Foundation of Shandong Province in China (ZR2020MF076
and ZR2019MB030), the Focus on Research and Development
Plan
in
Shandong
Province
(no.
2019GNC106115),
and
the
Taishan
Scholar
Program
of
Shandong
Province
of China.
REFERENCES
Achanta, R., Shaji, A., Smith, K., Lucchi, A., Fua, P., and Süsstrunk, S.
(2012). SLIC superpixels compared to state-of-the-art superpixel methods.
IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell. 34, 2274–2282. doi: 10.1109/TPAMI.
2012.120
Bargoti, S., and Underwood, J. P. (2017). Image segmentation for fruit detection
and yield estimation in apple orchards. J. Field Robot. 34, 1039–1060. doi:
10.1002/rob.21699
Barnea, E., Mairon, R., and Ben-Shahar, O. (2016). Colour-agnostic shape-based
3D fruit detection for crop harvesting robots. Biosyst. Eng. 146, 57–70. doi:
10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2016.01.013
Behera, S. K., Rath, A. K., Mahapatra, A., and Sethy, P. K. (2020). Identiﬁcation,
classiﬁcation & grading of fruits using machine learning & computer
intelligence: a review. J. Ambient Intell. Humaniz. Comput. 11, 1–11. doi: 10.
1007/s12652-020-01865-8
Biﬃ, L. J., Mitishita, E., Liesenberg, V., Santos, A. A. d, Gonçalves, D. N., Estrabis,
N. V., et al. (2020). Atss deep learning-based approach to detect apple fruits.
Remote Sensing 13:54. doi: 10.3390/rs13010054
Chen, Z., Wu, R., Lin, Y., Li, C., Chen, S., Yuan, Z., et al. (2022). Plant disease
recognition model based on improved YOLOv5. Agronomy 12:365. doi: 10.
3390/agronomy12020365
Choi, D., Lee, W. S., Schueller, J. K., Ehsani, R., Roka, F., and Diamond, J. (2017).
“A performance comparison of RGB, NIR, and depth images in immature citrus
detection using deep learning algorithms for yield prediction,” in Proceedings
of the 2017 ASABE Annual International Meeting, (St. Joseph: American
Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers). doi: 10.13031/aim.20170
0076
Gené-Mola, J., Vilaplana, V., Rosell-Polo, J. R., Morros, J.-R., Ruiz-Hidalgo, J., and
Gregorio, E. (2019). Multi-modal deep learning for Fuji apple detection using
RGB-D cameras and their radiometric capabilities. Comput. Electron. Agric.
162, 689–698. doi: 10.1016/j.dib.2019.104289
Genno, H., and Kobayashi, K. (2019). Apple growth evaluated automatically with
high-deﬁnition ﬁeld monitoring images. Comput. Electron. Agric. 164, 104895.
doi: 10.1016/j.compag.2019.104895
Häni, N., Roy, P., and Isler, V. (2020a). A comparative study of fruit detection
and counting methods for yield mapping in apple orchards. J. Field Robot. 37,
263–282. doi: 10.1002/rob.21902
Häni, N., Roy, P., and Isler, V. (2020b). Minneapple: a benchmark dataset for
apple detection and segmentation. IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett. 5, 852–858. doi:
10.1109/LRA.2020.2965061
He, L., Fu, H., Karkee, M., and Zhang, Q. (2017). Eﬀect of fruit location on apple
detachment with mechanical shaking. Biosyst. Eng. 157, 63–71. doi: 10.1016/j.
biosystemseng.2017.02.009
Ji, W., Gao, X., Xu, B., Chen, G., and Zhao, D. (2020). Target recognition method
of green pepper harvesting robot based on manifold ranking. Comput. Electron.
Agric. 177:105663.
Jia, W., Tian, Y., Luo, R., Zhang, Z., Lian, J., and Zheng, Y. (2020b). Detection and
segmentation of overlapped fruits based on optimized mask R-CNN application
in apple harvesting robot. Comput. Electron. Agric. 172:105380. doi: 10.1016/j.
compag.2020.105380
Jia, W., Zhang, Y., Lian, J., Zheng, Y., Zhao, D., and Li, C. (2020a). Apple
harvesting robot under information technology: a review. Int. J. Adv. Robot.
Syst. 17:1729881420925310. doi: 10.1177/1729881420925310
Jiao, Y., Luo, R., Li, Q., Deng, X., Yin, X., Ruan, C., et al. (2020). Detection
and localization of overlapped fruits application in an apple harvesting robot.
Electronics 9:1023. doi: 10.3390/electronics9061023
Kamilaris, A., and Prenafeta-Boldú, F. X. (2018). Deep learning in agriculture: a
survey. Comput. Electron. Agric. 147, 70–90. doi: 10.1016/j.compag.2018.02.016
Kang, H., and Chen, C. (2020). Fruit detection, segmentation and 3D visualisation
of environments in apple orchards. Comput. Electron. Agric. 171:105302. doi:
10.1016/j.compag.2020.105302
Koirala, A., Walsh, K. B., Wang, Z., and McCarthy, C. (2019). Deep learning–
Method overview and review of use for fruit detection and yield estimation.
Comput. Electron. Agric. 162, 219–234. doi: 10.1016/j.compag.2019.04.017
Li, B., Long, Y., and Song, H. (2018). Detection of green apples in natural scenes
based on saliency theory and Gaussian curve ﬁtting. Int. J. Agric. Biol. Eng. 11,
192–198. doi: 10.25165/j.ijabe.20181101.2899
Li, D.-h, Hui, Z., and Xiao, Y. (2019). Overlapping green apple recognition based
on improved spectral clustering. Spectrosc. Spectr. Anal. 39:2974.
Frontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org
14
June 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 864458

Sun et al.
Fruit Recognition by RGB-D Image
Li, Q., Jia, W., Sun, M., Hou, S., and Zheng, Y. (2021). A novel green apple
segmentation algorithm based on ensemble U-Net under complex orchard
environment. Comput. Electron. Agric. 180:105900. doi: 10.1016/j.compag.2020.
105900
Liu, G., Nouaze, J. C., Touko Mbouembe, P. L., and Kim, J. H. (2020). YOLO-
tomato: a robust algorithm for tomato detection based on YOLOv3. Sensors
20:2145. doi: 10.3390/s20072145
Lv, J., Wang, F., Xu, L., Ma, Z., and Yang, B. (2019a). A segmentation method of
bagged green apple image. Sci. Hortic. 246, 411–417. doi: 10.1016/j.scienta.2018.
11.030
Lv, J., Wang, Y., Ni, H., Wang, Q., Rong, H., Ma, Z., et al. (2019b). Method for
discriminating of the shape of overlapped apple fruit images. Biosyst. Eng. 186,
118–129.
Maheswari, P., Raja, P., Apolo-Apolo, O. E., and Pérez-Ruiz, M. (2021). Intelligent
fruit yield estimation for orchards using deep learning based semantic
segmentation techniques—a review. Front. Plant Sci. 12:684328. doi: 10.3389/
fpls.2021.684328
Rodriguez, A., and Laio, A. (2014). Clustering by fast search and ﬁnd of density
peaks. Science 344, 1492–1496. doi: 10.1126/science.1242072
Si, Y., Liu, G., and Feng, J. (2015). Location of apples in trees using stereoscopic
vision. Comput. Electron. Agric. 112, 68–74. doi: 10.1016/j.compag.2015.01.010
Silwal, A., Davidson, J. R., Karkee, M., Mo, C., Zhang, Q., and Lewis, K. (2017).
Design, integration, and ﬁeld evaluation of a robotic apple harvester. J. Field
Robot. 34, 1140–1159.
Sun, S., Jiang, M., He, D., Long, Y., and Song, H. (2019). Recognition of green
apples in an orchard environment by combining the GrabCut model and Ncut
algorithm. Biosyst. Eng. 187, 201–213. doi: 10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2019.09.006
Tang, Y., Chen, M., Wang, C., Luo, L., Li, J., Lian, G., et al. (2020). Recognition
and localization methods for vision-based fruit picking robots: a review. Front.
Plant Sci. 11:510. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2020.00510
Wang, D., He, D., Song, H., Liu, C., and Xiong, H. (2019). Combining SUN-based
visual attention model and saliency contour detection algorithm for apple image
segmentation. Multimed. Tools Appl. 78, 17391–17411. doi: 10.1007/s11042-
018-7106-y
Wu, F., Duan, J., Chen, S., Ye, Y., Ai, P., and Yang, Z. (2021). Multi-target
recognition of bananas and automatic positioning for the inﬂorescence
axis cutting point. Front. Plant Sci. 12:705021. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2021.
705021
Zhang, C., Zhang, J., Zhang, J., and Li, W. (2014). Recognition of green apple in
similar background. Nongye Jixie Xuebao Trans. Chin. Soc. Agric. Machinery 45,
277–281.
Zhang, J., Yang, B., Geng, N., and Huang, L. (2017). An obstacle detection system
based on monocular vision for apple orchardrobot. Int. J. Robot. Autom. 32,
639–648. doi: 10.2316/Journal.206.2017.6.206-5036
Zhao, Z.-Q., Zheng, P., S.-t, Xu, and Wu, X. (2019). Object detection with deep
learning: a review. IEEE Trans. Neural Netw. Learn. Syst. 30, 3212–3232. doi:
10.1109/TNNLS.2018.2876865
Conﬂict of Interest: The authors declare that the research was conducted in the
absence of any commercial or ﬁnancial relationships that could be construed as a
potential conﬂict of interest.
Publisher’s Note: All claims expressed in this article are solely those of the authors
and do not necessarily represent those of their aﬃliated organizations, or those of
the publisher, the editors and the reviewers. Any product that may be evaluated in
this article, or claim that may be made by its manufacturer, is not guaranteed or
endorsed by the publisher.
Copyright © 2022 Sun, Xu, Luo, Lu and Jia. This is an open-access article distributed
under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License (CC BY). The use,
distribution or reproduction in other forums is permitted, provided the original
author(s) and the copyright owner(s) are credited and that the original publication
in this journal is cited, in accordance with accepted academic practice. No use,
distribution or reproduction is permitted which does not comply with these terms.
Frontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org
15
June 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 864458
