AppleYOLO: Apple yield estimation method using improved YOLOv8
based on Deep OC-SORT
Shiting Tan, Zhufang Kuang∗and Boyu Jin
College of Computer and Mathematics, Central South University of Forestry and Technology, Changsha 41004, Hunan, China
A R T I C L E I N F O
Keywords:
Apple yield estimates
FasterNet
Focal Modulation
KernelWarehouse
Deep OC-SORT
A B S T R A C T
The accuracy of apple yield estimates is critical to orchard management. Existing apple yield esti-
mation methods still lack in accuracy and efficiency. To solve this challenge, an Apple yield estimate
method based on YOLOv8 and Deep OC-SORT (AppleYOLO) is proposed in this paper. To ade-
quately learn the edge information of the apples, the lightweight FasterNet is used as the backbone
portion of the AppleYOLO. In order to make AppleYOLO accurately capture the contextual infor-
mation and improve the spatial perception of the apples, the Focal Modulation is designed after its
backbone. To address the ability to extract complex features, the dynamic convolutional KernelWare-
house with efficient parameters is employed in the feature fusion part of AppleYOLO. For overcoming
the problem of unstable tracking and repeated counting when detecting apples in real time, the Deep
OC-SORT is deployed in AppleYOLO. In our customised dataset, validated by ablation experiments,
the introduction of FasterNet, Focal Modulation, and KernelWarehouse enhances the detection per-
formance of AppleYOLO. In comparison with the benchmark model YOLOv8, AppleYOLO achieves
mAP50 and mAP50-95 of 98.5% and 79.8%, respectively, with 1% and 5.1% improvement. More-
over, the performance of AppleYOLO is superior compared to other state-of-the-art methods, such as
YOLOv9-c, RT-DETR, YOLOv8 and YOLOv7. The experiments prove that AppleYOLO is able to
achieve the goal of high accurate and high efficient.
1. Introduction
Agriculture is vital to a nation’s very foundation, and
the high accurate and efficient agricultural crop yield data
is essential for enabling precise agricultural management,
ensuring national food security, and accurately maintain-
ing a strategic advantage in global food trade (Huang et al.,
2023).
In this context, it is particularly crucial to un-
dertake yield estimation work for orchard fruits. Numer-
ous studies are focused on enhancing the efficiency of fruit
yield estimation and addressing the challenges faced during
the yield estimation process. An integrated YOLOv4-tiny
method with Channel and Spatial Reliability Discriminative
Correlation Filter (CSR-DCF) algorithm is proposed to ad-
dress the misidentification issue caused by a large number
of fruits with highly similar appearances, thereby improv-
ing the accuracy of apple yield counting (Gao et al.,2022).
An improved tomato clusters counting method combin-
ing the YOLOv5-4D and the ByteTrack is introduced by
Rong et al.(2023), effectively overcoming challenges in au-
tomatic yield estimation in smart greenhouse automation. In
Fu(2021), a computational complexity optimized YOLOv3-
tiny network is proposed to automatically detect the kiwifruit
in orchards. A new method combining the CenterNet model
and a patch matching model based on the Kuhn-Munkres al-
gorithm is introduced, successfully solving the issue of du-
plicate counting in sequential images of apples and oranges
when performing fruit yield estimation (Xia et al.,2022). In
Oliveira et al.(2023), a method combining the Linear Re-
gression and the Support Vector Machine algorithm is pro-
∗Corresponding author
zfkuangcn@163.com (Z. Kuang)
ORCID(s): 0000-0002-1445-3217 (Z. Kuang)
posed to address efficiency and accuracy issues in strawberry
yield estimation. In Bai et al.(2019), a method that inte-
grates the Leaf Area Index (LAI) from Landsat satellite data
and the WOFOST model is introduced to enhance the ac-
curacy of yield estimation for perennial jujube crops on a
field scale, effectively addressing the accuracy issues of tra-
ditional methods. A deep learning approach based on the
YOLO-V4 model is proposed by Mirhaji et al.(2021) for au-
tomatically detecting and counting oranges in orchards, ad-
dressing the fruit load estimation issue. A deep learning
algorithm combining the OrangeYolo and the OrangeSort
is proposed, effectively solving the accuracy and duplicate
counting problems in computer vision-based citrus counting
(Zhang et al.,2022).
Existing research on fruit yield estimation methods has
not yet concurrently addressed accuracy, real-time perfor-
mance, and computational complexity, and cannot effec-
tively meet the both high accurate and high efficient re-
quirements. Therefore, an Apple yield estimation method in
the complex orchard environment using improved YOLOv8
based on Deep OC-SORT (AppleYOLO) is proposed.
Meanwhile, the computational complexity of the model is
reduced as much as possible to accommodate more hardware
devices. As shown in Table 1, comparison to existing works,
we optimize both the backbone and neck portions of the Ap-
pleYOLO and introduce the state-of-the-art target tracking
technique. By applying AppleYOLO, it is possible to ac-
curately locate the apple on the tree and quickly count the
number of apples with error-free detection, thus improving
the accuracy of apple yield estimation in the orchard. The
main contributions of this paper are summarized as follows:
1. An Apple yield estimate method based on YOLOv8
and Deep OC-SORT (AppleYOLO) is proposed to ad-
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 1 of 21
This preprint research paper has not been peer reviewed. Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4861527
Preprint not peer reviewed

Short Title of the Article
Table 1
Comparison of the existing works.
Reference
Application target
Banckbone
end of the
Backbone
Neck
Tracker
Accuracy
Computational complexity
Xiong et al.,(2023)
Litchi
✓
✓
Zhang et al.,(2023)
Apple leaf
✓
✓
✓
Li et al.,(2024b)
Wheat ears
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
Du et al.,(2023)
Strawberry
✓
✓
✓
✓
Li et al.,(2023)
Tea Buds
✓
✓
Our paper
Apple
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
dress the challenges of apple yield estimation in large
orchards. Figure 1 displays the four key components
of the AppleYOLO network architecture: the Back-
bone network, the Neck network, the Head network,
and the Tracker section.
2. To improve the network’s ability to learn the edge in-
formation of the input image, such as the contour and
texture of apples, the FasterNet is introduced in the
backbone network of AppleYOLO. It enhances the ef-
ficiency of learning the edge information of objects
without increasing the memory access time of the net-
work model.
3. For extracting apple size information, locating the po-
sition of apples, and improving the spatial recognition
of objects, the Focus Modulation (FM) mechanism is
used to improve the interpretability of AppleYOLO
and its ability to capture key information.
4. The complex feature extraction ability of AppleYOLO
Neck network is improved by using KernelWarehouse
(KWConv) in order to reduce the occlusion and inter-
ference caused by tree trunks, branches and leaves on
apple detection.
5. The tracking algorithm Deep OC-SORT is utilised as
the Tracker section of AppleYOLO to solve the prob-
lem of unstable tracking and repeated counting in real-
time apple detection. It ensures that each detected ap-
ple is assigned a unique identification number, thereby
increasing the accuracy of apple yield estimation.
2. Related work
The efficient apple yield estimation methods can signifi-
cantly enhance orchard management efficiency and promote
precision in agricultural management. In contrast, the tra-
ditional orchard fruit yield estimation methods usually rely
on the judgment of experienced farmers or sample count-
ing in specific areas to extrapolate the expected total yield of
the orchard. In Wulfsohn et al.(2012), a three-stage system-
atic sampling procedure is employed to unbiasedly estimate
the number of fruits in orchards, addressing the challenge
of accurate estimation due to significant fluctuations in tree
for orchard yield forecasting. However, in Gómez-Lagos
et al.(2023), a fruit yield prediction method based on spec-
tral vegetation data and machine learning techniques (SBM-
Fruit) is used to address inefficiencies of resource allocation
and logistics planning in the fruit supply chain caused by
inaccurate yield estimates. The study points out that the tra-
ditional random sampling methods generally have a predic-
tion error of about 10% when estimating fruit yield, but these
can be as high as 30% in actual field operations, leading to
increased resource costs, fruit losses, packaging waste, and
decreased fruit qualities. In the review (He et al.,2022), veg-
etation index information is used for yield prediction, and
mainly focuses on the overall health and growth status of
vegetation. However, it ignores attention to specific details.
At the same time, the literature also emphasizes the rapid
development of computer vision technology based on image
processing and deep learning in the agricultural field. Com-
puter vision technology excels in detailed crop analysis and
counting, particularly in identifying and counting individual
fruits with high accuracy (Xiong et al.,2023). For instance,
the YOLOv5s detection model is used to count grape clus-
ters under field conditions and achieves achieving an average
counting accuracy of 84.9% (Shen et al.,(2023). Building on
the work of predecessors, our study uses the most advanced
computer vision technology to address the three major chal-
lenges faced by existing orchard yield estimation models: in-
sufficient identification accuracy and low precision, inability
to meet the needs of real-time estimation, and models are too
large or complex to run on small devices.
To construct an efficient method for estimating apple
yield, it is typically necessary innovate in apple detection
models and counting techniques. Existing studies are dedi-
cated to improving the performance of object detection mod-
els by focusing on the backbone or neck sections of the net-
work. In terms of counting methods, it is common to inte-
grate target tracking algorithms with object detection mod-
els. For object detection models, it is essential to accurately
identify the edges of objects to distinguish different entities.
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 2 of 21
This preprint research paper has not been peer reviewed. Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4861527
Preprint not peer reviewed

Short Title of the Article
Many researchers are committed to extracting edge informa-
tion from objects and effectively building the backbone net-
work. For example, in Redmon and Farhadi(2018), a deep
neural network known as DarkNet53 is utilized as the back-
bone of the object detection model to accurately extract fun-
damental image features, such as edges, textures, and shapes.
An improved cross-stage partial-connection Darknet53 is
used as the backbone to address the problem of image in-
formation loss when precisely detecting railway objects in
complex railway scenes (Ye et al.,2022). Although its de-
tection accuracy reaches up to 94%, the model size is too
large to deploy on embedded devices. An EfficientViT high-
speed vision converter that can be used as a backbone part of
the model is proposed to solve the problem that traditional
converter models are not applicable in real-time applications
due to high computational cost (Liu et al.,(2023). Mean-
while, it also achieves a good balance between speed and
accuracy. A method of using EfficientViT as the backbone is
proposed for solving the problem of detecting small boat tar-
gets in synthetic aperture radar (SAR) imagery amidst com-
plex backgrounds and noise interference (Feng et al.,2023).
Although the model satisfies the requirements for real-time
performance and small parameter size, there is still space for
improvement in detection accuracy. A novel visual Trans-
former named Swin Transformer is employed to enhance ef-
ficiency and accuracy in visual tasks (Liu et al.,2021). It
also addresses the challenges of high-resolution images and
scale variation, and can serve as a universal backbone for
computer vision. A Swin Transformer based model is used
to address the problem of surface defect detection in manu-
facturing industry Üzen et al.(2022). it also harnesses Swin-
transformer module to obtain global semantic features from
initial features and achieves pixel-level accurate recognition
through multi-feature integrated network. Its experimental
results show that the model outperforms existing state-of-
the-art models in the detection problem, but the computer
requirements are too high to be supported by small hardware
devices.
To deal with the long-distance dependency problem,
some studies make the model capture richer contextual in-
formation by adding a pooling layer or other same func-
tion mechanisms after the backbone network to improve the
recognition of object size and position. A method known as
Fast Spatial Pyramid Pooling (SPPF) is deployed behind a
backbone network to enhance the capability of sensory field
and feature expression for Fusarium head blight spike de-
tection in wheat (Gao et al.,2024). A Large Separable Ker-
nel Attention (LSKA) is proposed to address the problem of
high computational cost due to large convolutional kernels
in visual attention networks (Lau et al.,(2024). In addition,
it maintains the ability of capturing the long distance depen-
dency of the images to improve the accuracy of recogniz-
ing and segmenting the images. In the Real-Time DEtection
TRansformer (RT-DETR) method, an Attention-based Intra-
scale Feature Interaction (AIFI) mechanism is used for solv-
ing the problem of accuracy and computational efficiency in
object detection and recognition (Lv et al.,2023). And it en-
hances the ability to handle advanced features in RT-DETR
method.
Many researchers optimize the feature fusion network
part (Neck) of the detection model to make the model more
accurately capture multi-scale features such as the size and
shape of objects in the images.
For instance, a method
called Bidirectional Transposed Feature Pyramid Network
(BTFPN) is employed to address the issue of apple leaf dis-
ease feature information loss during feature fusion and com-
munication (Zhang et al.,2023). Although the recognition
accuracy of the method in apple leaf disease detection is
higher than other methods, its number of parameters and cal-
culations reaches 49.13M and 114.8G, respectively, so that
it cannot meet the requirements of model lightweight and
high efficiency. A method that replaces the PANet structure
of YOLOv7 with BIFPN is proposed to achieve more effi-
cient fusion of wheat ears features (Li et al.,2024b). How-
ever, in the case of severe occlusion, there is still a room for
improving the optimization for the detection of wheat ears.
An approach which introduces the DCNv3 into the YOLOv7
model is proposed for improving the feature extraction capa-
bility for non-regular strawberries (Du et al.,2023). While
the integration of DCNv3 really improve the method’s abil-
ity of extracting important features, the more parameters that
it introduces are not capable of fulfilling the requirements of
high efficiency.
For the counting methods on the tracking side, the pur-
pose is to achieve dynamic tracking of targets in consecutive
frames within a video (Ren et al.,2021). An effective track-
ing algorithm maintains stable tracking of the targets and
minimizes false tracking and tracking loss under complex
conditions. A model fusing the YOLOv5x and the DeepSort
algorithms is proposed to address the mutual occlusion prob-
lem caused by different movement speeds among individuals
during sheep counting (Cao et al.,2023). A tea bud counting
method based on the YOLOv5 and the Kalman filter track-
ing algorithm is proposed for estimating tea yield and its
counting results are highly correlated with manual count-
ing results (Li et al.,2023). In Cui et al.(2023), a method
for rice field seedling drop counting based on improved the
YOLOv5s and the ByteTrack tracking algorithm is used to
accurately estimate the seedling deficiency rate during rice
cultivation. Moreover, the counting accuracy of the method
reaches up to 93.2%. Maggiolino et al.(2023) proposes an
algorithm called Deep OC-SORT, which innovatively and
adaptively integrates object appearance features into motion-
based multi-target tracking methods to improve the accuracy
and robustness of tracking. The results of their experiments
indicate that the Deep OC-SORT is superior to DeepSort,
ByteTrack and StrongSORT++ in terms of various perfor-
mance metrics.
However, the existing works have not a more efficient
method for apple yield estimations.
Therefore, an apple
yield estimations method named AppleYOLO is proposed
, which is accurate, efficient, and adaptable to multiple hard-
ware devices.
The structure of the article is as follows:
Section 3 introduces the dataset used in the research and
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 3 of 21
This preprint research paper has not been peer reviewed. Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4861527
Preprint not peer reviewed

Short Title of the Article
Figure 1: The detailed network architecture of AppleYOLO.
the design of the apple yield estimation method; Section
4 presents the experimental results of the apple yield esti-
mation method; and Section 5 articulates the conclusions
reached by this research.
3. Materials and methods
The construction of a sample dataset of images of apples
on the trees is a key to realize accurate and efficient apple
yield estimations. Therefore, it is necessary to obtain the
images of apples on the trees in a real situation. Through ex-
changes with other academics, 797 high-definition apple im-
ages in real orchards are successfully obtained. Before con-
structing the apple dataset, 797 apple images are randomly
divided into a training set of 637 and a validation set of 160
according to 8:2.
However, the small number of original apple images may
lead to the model overfitting during the training process,
which cannot effectively learn the location of apple growth
in real scenes. In this case, the training performance of the
model may show large fluctuations and lack of stability, lead-
ing to poor performance on data that has not been seen be-
fore. Therefore, a total of 1911 training images are obtained
by data augmentation of the training set using Motion blur
and adding Gaussian noise methods (Figure 2). The data
processing methods are taken to increase the diversity of the
data and the difficulty of model training to avoid the above as
much as possible. Meanwhile, to further prevent the model
from overfitting, the last 50 epochs early stopping method is
used to set up the experiment. This approach is intended to
monitor the model’s performance on the validation set and
the model will stop training when the performance no longer
improves.
Then, following the guidance of the agriculturists, the
exact location of apples in an image are determined and a
single-row annotation method is employed for all images.
As shown in Figure 3 (a), the camera photographs individual
fruit trees in rows to obtain a front view of individual fruit
trees. Similarly, the fruits in individual apple trees are an-
notated on a row-by-row basis (Figure 3 b). The aim of this
is to avoid the model recognizing apples in the back row of
an image, which in turn improves the accuracy of yield pre-
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 4 of 21
This preprint research paper has not been peer reviewed. Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4861527
Preprint not peer reviewed

Short Title of the Article
(a) Original image in the orchard
(b) Motion blur image
(c) Gaussian noise image
Figure 2: Examples of original and augmented images.
(a) Taking front view images of apple trees
(b) Labeling of front row fruits
Figure 3: single-row annotation method.
diction. With the dataset prepared and the means of annota-
tion determined, 2071 images are correctly annotated using
the Labelimg image annotation software to obtain an apple
dataset that can be used for model training.
3.1. AppleYOLO
We find through field surveys with agriculturists that ap-
ple leaves cover the fruits more seriously (Figure 4 a), and
overlapping between fruits (Figure 4 b). And besides the
red fruits, green apples that resemble the leaves also appear
frequently (Figure 4 c) and the sizes of the fruits vary (Fig-
ure 4 d). This creates challenges in identifying to apples
with an error-free margin and realizing high-precision ap-
ple yield estimates. For large orchards, it is necessary not
only to have high-precision recognition technology, but also
to optimize the performance of the model. The aim is to en-
sure real-time identification and yield estimation, which in
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 5 of 21
This preprint research paper has not been peer reviewed. Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4861527
Preprint not peer reviewed

Short Title of the Article
(a) Leaves cover fruits
(b) Overlap between fruits
(c) Apples resembling leaves
(d) Different apple sizes
Figure 4: The factors affecting the accuracy of apple yield estimates.
turn enables efficient management and operation of the or-
chard. The AppleYOLO, which is well balanced between
accurate and efficient and it can effectively solve the above
problems.
Therefore, the state-of-the-art YOLOv8 network is re-
designed to build the AppleYOLO for use in real-world sce-
narios. Different from any other network model, AppleY-
OLO employs a faster backbone network called FasterNet
(Chen et al.,2023), which is capable of reducing redundant
computations and memory accesses as well as efficiently ex-
tracting features of apple images. After the backbone net-
work, a more powerful feature aggregation method called
Focal Modulation (FM) mechanism is employed to enhance
the model’s interpretability of apple images and the ability
of capturing key information (Yang et al.,2022). In the fea-
ture fusion section of AppleYOLO, the Towards Parameter
Efficient Dynamic Convolutional KernelWarehouse (KW-
conv) is used to improve the parametric efficiency of the
model while enhancing its feature characterization (Li and
Yao,2023). While the strategy ensures that the model is ef-
ficient, it also optimizes the processing and recognition per-
formance for complex features. Moreover, the Deep OC-
SORT tracking algorithm is integrated after the detection
head to accurately track apple objects in moving videos,
achieving error-free counting. Figure 1 illustrates the de-
tailed network architecture of AppleYOLO.
(1) In Backbone, for an input image with a channel num-
ber of 3 and a size of 640x640, the FasterNet’s Faster-
NetBlock efficiently extracts the shallow features in the
image, such as apple colors, contours, and textures.
And the Focal Modulation mechanism aggregates multi-
scale features to provide more comprehensive contextual
information for the subsequent detection layer.
(2) In Neck, it concatenates the shallow features obtain by
Backbone with deeper semantic features. As can be seen
from Figure 1, the resolution of the feature map is in-
creased after the upsampling layer. Then, the feature
maps from Backbone are merged with the upsampled
feature maps using the Concat operation, which ensures
that features at different scales are effectively fused. The
KWConv is used to dynamically adjust the convolution
kernel to optimize the characterization of features. And
several regular convolutions (Conv) are responsible for
generalized processing of features, including edge de-
tection, texture recognition, and more. The combina-
tion of KWConv and Conv allows the model to capture
complex, high-level features during the feature fusion
process as well as maintain effective handling of the un-
derlying features.
(3) In Head, for increasing the model’s focus and accuracy,
a decoupled head idea is applied in the detection head
part, which means that the classification and localiza-
tion tasks are handled separately. And there are separate
detectors for each scale. The detector consists of a set
of convolutional layers and fully connected layers that
are used to predict the bounding box at each scale. The
design allows AppleYOLO is able to more accurately
capture the features of the apple at all scales, thereby
improving the overall detection accuracy.
(4) In Tracker, the object detection part is responsible for
detecting apples in an image in real time and recogniz-
ing the position and size of each apple. Subsequently,
the results of these detections are passed to the Deep
OC-SORT algorithm. The Deep OC-SORT algorithm
utilizes this information to track the movement of each
apple between video frames and thus achieve a contin-
uous count of apples. The interaction ensures accurate
counting of apples in dynamic environments and main-
tains a high level of accuracy even when the apples are
moved or obscured from each other.
3.2. Apple detection model
3.2.1. FasterNet
Some studies focus on reducing the number of floating
point operations (FLOPs), but actually it is not always pos-
sible to reduce the latency. It is mainly caused by the low ef-
ficiency of FLOPs. Furthermore, the feature maps between
most of the different channels are highly similar and redun-
dancy of feature maps occurs, that lead to the existence of
redundant computations. However, FasterNet revisits fast
neural networks in terms of the number of memory inter-
views and redundant computations of the operators by us-
ing a novel partial convolution (PConv) to exploit the redun-
dancy of the feature maps. The intention is to build fast neu-
ral networks in the truest sense of the word.
Figure 5 (b) demonstrates the working principle of
PConv. As distinct from regular convolution, only a part of
the channels of PConv are involved in the convolution opera-
tion for spatial feature extraction, and the rest of the channels
remain unchanged. At this point the number of memory in-
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 6 of 21
This preprint research paper has not been peer reviewed. Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4861527
Preprint not peer reviewed

Short Title of the Article
terviews for PConv is
ℎ× 𝑤× 2𝑐𝑝+ 𝑘2 × 𝑐2
𝑝≈ℎ× 𝑤× 2𝑐𝑝
(1)
assuming that the ratio of channels involved in the convolu-
tion operation to the original channels is 𝑟, when 𝑟=
𝑐𝑝
𝑐= 1
4,
the number of memory interviews of PConv is 1
4 of that of
the regular Conv. Concurrently, the FLOPs of PConv is
ℎ× 𝑤× 𝑘2 × 𝑐2
𝑝
(2)
when 𝑟= 1
4, PConv is only 1
16 of the conventional convolu-
tion. As a result, PConv reduces both the number of mem-
ory interviews and redundant computations. In brief, the
PConv reduces the computational burden while maintaining
the focus on the key features. The selective convolutional
approach allows the network to focus more on the important
features, thereby improving the efficiency and accuracy of
feature extraction.
Figure 5 depicts the overall architecture of FasterNet,
which is a fast neural network build on the basis of PConv.
And it can be used as a generalized backbone network to
extract basic image features from the input images like the
ResNet and the DarkNet.
In addition, it can also obtain
higher running speed than other networks on various devices
without affecting the accuracy of various visual tasks. The
FasterNet is composed of four layered stages, each of which
is followed by an embedding layer (regular convolution 4 ×
4 with a step size of 4) or a merging layer (regular convo-
lution 2 × 2 with a step size of 2) for spatial downsampling
and channel count expansion. Assuming that the height and
width of the input images are both 640, according to the
feature map calculation formula (3), the feature maps after
the four stages are 160x160, 80x80, 40x40, and 20x20, re-
spectively. The FasterNet Block is stacked at each stage of
the FasterNet, and each FasterNet Block has a PConv layer.
Besides, 2 point-wise convolutions (PWConv) are attached
after the PConv. The combination of PConv and PWConv
forms an inverted residual structure (Sandler et al.,2018),
which is an effective network design for increasing network
depth while maintaining or reducing computational effort.
In addition to the above operations, the Batch Normaliza-
tion and the Activation Layers are indispensable for high-
performance neural networks. However, a study shows that
overuse of these layers throughout the network, which may
limit the feature diversity and thus impair the performance
(Chen and Ho,2021). Therefore, the FasterNet only puts the
Batch Normalization and the Activation Layers in the mid-
dle of the 2 PWConv. The size of the output feature map is
𝑓𝑜𝑢𝑡= (𝑓𝑖𝑛−𝑘)∕𝑠+ 1
(3)
where 𝑓out denotes the output feature map size, 𝑓in repre-
sents the input feature map size, 𝑘indicates the size of the
convolutional kernel, and 𝑠stands for the stride size.
3.2.2. Focal Modulation
Since the Vision Transformer is launched in the field of
the Computer Vision, the potential of it is already proven in
Figure 5: The network structure of FasterNet.
Figure 6: (a) Focal Modulation; (b) Context aggregation
practice in numerous vision tasks. This innovative architec-
ture shows remarkable results in dealing with visual chal-
lenges and is gradually becoming one of the key technolo-
gies in the field of the Computer Vision. The Self-Attention
(SA), which is the main core of Vision Transformer, is able
to deal with long distance dependencies. It means that it is
able to establish a connection between any two positions of
an image. However, this causes efficiency problems because
the SA needs to compute the relationship between all pairs
of pixel positions in the input images, thus leads to a rela-
tively large amount of computation when processing large
size images (Guo et al.,2023). For this problem, as illus-
trated in Figure 6 (a) the Focal Modulation (FM) first ag-
gregates the context of the input features, and then the con-
textual information is injected into the query tokens in the
form of modulation. This differentiates from the SA mecha-
nism, the Focal Modulation improves processing speed and
accuracy by aggregating contextual features earlier and then
performing lightweight interaction operations to build atten-
tion mechanism-free architectures.
Figure 6 (b) illustrates the hierarchical context aggrega-
tion process of FM, which consists of two steps: The Hierar-
chical Contextualization, which extracts context from local
to global scales at different levels of granularity; The Gated
Aggregation, which compresses all the contextual features
at different levels of granularity into a modulator. This stage
produces a set of re-weighted and adjusted features that pro-
vide more accurate and effective feature information for sub-
sequent processing stages.
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 7 of 21
This preprint research paper has not been peer reviewed. Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4861527
Preprint not peer reviewed

Short Title of the Article
(1) In the Hierarchical Contextualization step, for the input
feature map 𝑋, it is first projected into a new feature
space through a linear layer, resulting in 𝑍0 = 𝑓𝑧(𝑋) ∈
ℝ𝐻×𝑊×𝐶. Then, a hierarchical context representation
is obtained by stacking 𝐿layers of depth-wise convolu-
tions. At each focal layer level 𝓁∈{1, … , 𝐿}, its output
𝑍𝓁is acquired as follows:
𝑍𝓁= 𝑓𝓁
𝑎(𝑍𝓁−1) ≜𝐺𝑒𝐿𝑈(𝐷𝑊𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑣(𝑍𝓁−1)) (4)
𝑓𝓁
𝑎stands for the context function at the 𝓁level, which is
realized by the deep-wise convolution (DWConv) with
a convolutional kernel size of 𝑘𝓁and the GeLU acti-
vation function. To capture the global context of the
entire input, the global average pooling is applied on
the feature map at layer 𝐿. Specifically, 𝐿performs
average pooling on the layer’s feature maps 𝑍𝐿to get
𝑍(𝐿+1) = AvgPool(𝑍𝐿), and obtains a total of 𝐿+ 1
feature maps. It is a process that helps to extract and uti-
lize layer-specific feature information while maintaining
computational efficiency.
(2) In the Gated Aggregation step, the 𝐿+1 feature maps ob-
tained from the Hierarchical Contextualization are con-
densed into a single modulator. In images, the relation-
ship between a visual token (query) and its surrounding
context usually depends on the content itself. For exam-
ple, a model may rely on local fine-grained features to
highlight queries to visual objects, but primarily make
use of global coarse-grained features to handle queries
to background scenes. Based on this situation, the FM
uses a gating mechanism to control the extent to which
each query is aggregated from different levels, and this
flexible aggregation helps to improve the efficiency and
performance of the model. Specifically, a linear layer
is used to obtain spatial and level-aware gating weights
𝐺= 𝑓𝑔(𝑋) ∈ℝ𝐻×𝑊×(𝐿+1), where 𝐺𝓁is the slice of
𝐺at level 𝓁. Then, a weighted summation is performed
by element-by-element multiplication to obtain a single
feature𝑍𝑜𝑢𝑡of the same size as the input 𝑋, where
𝑍𝑜𝑢𝑡=
𝐿+1
∑
𝑖=𝓁
𝐺𝓁⋅𝑍𝓁
(5)
3.2.3. KernelWarehouse
The conventional dynamic convolution works by learn-
ing a linear mixture of static kernels, but these methods
are not efficient and significantly increase the number of
convolution parameters (Li et al.,2024a).
However, the
Towards Parameter-Efficient Dynamic Convolution Kernel-
Warehouse (KWConv) employs both the Kernel Partition
and the Warehouse Sharing strategies. Inspired by the fol-
lowing two aspects, KWConv redefines "kernel" and "as-
sembled kernel" in dynamic convolution from the perspec-
tive of reducing kernel dimensions and increasing the num-
ber of kernels to solve the above problems. On the one hand,
the current dynamic convolution methods usually treat all
the parameters of a standard convolutional layer as a whole
kernel and increase the number of kernels to 𝑛. Then, the
Figure 7: The workflow of the KernelWarehouse.
kernels are fused into a linear mixed kernel using an atten-
tional mechanism. This approach is simple and effective,
but it fails to take into account the parameter dependencies
within a single static kernel in a convolutional layer. On the
other hand, the existing dynamic convolution strategies de-
ploy 𝑛kernels independently for each layer of a convolu-
tional neural network, but ignore the parameter dependen-
cies between different layers. However, the KWConv can
provide a good balance between parametric efficiency and
characterization ability based on the above inspiration.
Figure 7 presents the workflow of the KWConv method,
which consists of three key components: the Kernel Parti-
tion, the Warehouse Sharing, and an Attention Function. For
an input feature map 𝑥, it first undergoes a global average
pooling (GAP) operation, which compresses the spatial in-
formation of each channel to generate a global feature vector.
This vector is then further processed through two layers of
a Fully Connected (FC) network: the first FC layer aims to
reduce the length of the feature vector, while the second FC
layer generates a set of features for each potential kernel unit.
The processed features are delivered to an Attention Func-
tion (NAF) through the ReLU activation function. The NAF
dynamically calculates a series of scalar attention weights
(𝛼1, … , 𝛼𝑚) based on the input features. And these weights
are used to determine the degree of contribution of different
kernel units in the final composition of the dynamic convo-
lutional kernel. The calculation formula for the NAF is
𝛼𝑖𝑗= (1 −𝜏)
𝑧𝑖𝑗
∑𝑛
𝑝=1 |𝑧𝑖𝑝| + 𝜏𝛽𝑖𝑗, 𝑗∈{1, … , 𝑛}
(6)
here,
𝜏is a temperature parameter that linearly de-
creases from 1 to 0 during the early stages of training;
𝑧𝑖𝑗∕(∑𝑛
𝑝=1 |𝑧𝑖𝑝|) is a linear normalization function capable
of generating negative attention outputs; 𝛽𝑖𝑗is a binary value
(0 or 1) that is used to initialize attention.
The attention weights obtained above are linearly com-
bined with the kernel units (𝑒1, … , 𝑒𝑛) predefined in the
warehouse to generate a series of dynamic convolutional ker-
nel units (𝑤1, … , 𝑤𝑚). Each dynamic convolutional kernel
unit is a weighted sum of the warehouse kernel units whose
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 8 of 21
This preprint research paper has not been peer reviewed. Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4861527
Preprint not peer reviewed

Short Title of the Article
weights are given by the scalar attention described above.
Where the kernel unit is defined as
𝑤𝑖= 𝛼𝑖1𝑒1 + ⋯+ 𝛼𝑖𝑛𝑒𝑛, 𝑖∈{1, … , 𝑚}
(7)
and these dynamic convolution kernel units are assembled
into the final dynamic convolution kernel 𝑊. This is the
strategy of the Kernel Partition, where the static kernel𝑊of
a regular convolutional layer is sequentially divided into 𝑚
disjoint parts (𝑤1, … , 𝑤𝑚). The dynamic convolution ker-
nel 𝑊is then utilized to perform a convolution operation
to map the input feature map 𝑥to the output feature map 𝑦.
This process enables the network to dynamically adjust its
feature extraction methods based on the input, thereby en-
hancing adaptability and efficiency. The bottom of Figure 7
demonstrates the Warehouse Sharing strategy, which shows
that multiple convolutional layers in the same stage can use
the kernel units from the same warehouse. This design not
only reduces the total number of model parameters but also
ensures effective sharing and transfer of feature information
across different layers of the network.
3.3. Apple counting method
It is extremely important to reduce errors in apple detec-
tion and counting in order to improve the accuracy of the
apple yield estimates. In the real-time detection process,
the multi-target tracking (MOT) can effectively distinguish
and track multiple objects in a video, realizing the contin-
uous identification and the position tracking of each target.
However, it is easy to duplicate tracking for targets that are
too similar. Therefore, the multi-object tracking algorithm
DeepOC-SORT builds on motion-based MOT algorithms by
incorporating appearance information of targets to address
issues caused by occlusions, motion blur, or objects with
similar appearances.
Figure 8 illustrates the tracking process of the Deep
OC-SORT. The apples position and feature information
that passes through the apple detection method first passes
through the Camera Motion Compensation (CMC) mod-
ule to correct the visual error caused by the camera move-
ment. Simultaneously, The Re-identification (ReID) mod-
ule extracts the key appearance features of the apples from
the images to distinguish between different apple individ-
uals. After the two parts of information are merged, they
are processed by the OC-SORT’s Kalman Filter (KF) to
predict the future state of the apple and update its current
state. Then, the adaptive weighting (AW) module adjusts the
weight of each feature according to the differentiation ability
of the apple features. Finally, the Cost Matrix and the Linear
Solver work in tandem to solve the data correlation problem,
and ensure that the same apples are accurately matched and
tracked in a sequence of the video frames. The high degree
of synergy in the whole process enables the Deep OC-SORT
to efficiently track every detected apple objects in a dynamic
environment and to assign a uniquely identified ID number
for every apple.
Figure 8: The tracking processes of the Deep OC-SORT.
4. Results and discussion
4.1. Experimental platform and evaluation index
Since the YOLOv8 based architecture is utilised in the
experiments, the YOLOv8 is served as the baseline model
for the experiments. All the comparison methods involved in
the experiments are based on the YOLOv8 architecture. For
ensuring the experimental results are reproducible and com-
parable, all experiments are conducted in a unified environ-
ment. The experimental platform uses the Windows 11 op-
erating system and is equipped with an Nvidia Geforce RTX
3090 GPU with 24GB of video memory. The programming
language for the model is Python 3.8 and uses the Pytorch
version 2.0.0 deep learning framework and the CUDA 11.7
computational architecture. In the process of model train-
ing, the uniformly set parameters include: training period
(epochs) of 300, batch size of 16, input image size (imgsz)
of 640, and the use of Adam as the optimizer. The uniform
configuration of these parameters is intended to ensure stan-
dardization of the training process so that the results can be
effectively compared and analyzed.
In the experimental process, the Precision, Recall, and
mean Average Precision (mAP) are adopted to evaluate the
performance of the apple yield estimation model. In addi-
tion, the performance representation of the model is also
monitored, including the number of parameters, and the
speed of detection. The calculation methods for the Preci-
sion and the Recall are as follows
Precision =
𝑇𝑃
𝑇𝑃+ 𝐹𝑃
(8)
Recall =
𝑇𝑃
𝑇𝑃+ 𝐹𝑁
(9)
where the True Positive (TP) represents the number of posi-
tive samples correctly identified as positive; the False Posi-
tive (FP) stands for the number of negative samples incor-
rectly identified as positive; and the False Negative (FN)
is the number of positive samples incorrectly identified as
negative. The Precision reflects the model’s ability to cor-
rectly identify positive samples, so a high Precision means
that there are fewer false positives in the samples that the
model marks as positive. The Recall reflects the proportion
of all actual positive samples that are correctly recognized as
positive by the model. A high Recall indicates that the model
is able to capture more positive samples and reduce under-
reporting. However, the formula for calculating the mAP is
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 9 of 21
This preprint research paper has not been peer reviewed. Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4861527
Preprint not peer reviewed

Short Title of the Article
as follows
𝑚𝐴𝑃= 1
𝑁
𝑁
∑
𝑖=1
𝐴𝑃𝑖
(10)
Where, 𝑁denotes the number of the detection categories
(the number of the categories in the experiment is 1); 𝐴𝑃𝑖
represents the Average Precision (AP) of the 𝑖th category,
and it is derived by calculating the area under the Precision-
Recall curve for the category. The mAP is the AP value
of all categories totaled and divided by the number of cat-
egories, and reflects the comprehensive performance of the
model. In the mAP, it is usually combined with one or more
the Intersection over Union (IoU) thresholds so that the de-
gree of overlap between the model-predicted bounding box
and the true bounding box can be measured. For instance,
the mAP50 considers the detection frames with at least 50%
overlap, while the mAP50-95 considers the average perfor-
mance at the different IoU thresholds from 50% to 95%. If
the mAP with a high threshold is used, its detection accuracy
is lower, which means that the detection is more difficult.
However, during the experiments, improving the accuracy at
the high thresholds so that the model can locate the objects
more accurately and improve the robustness of the model is
a priority.
4.2. Performance Analysis of the Input Sizes
We explore the impact of three image sizes, 320x320,
640x640 and 1280x1280, on the model performance in or-
der to find a suitable image input size for limited resources.
Figure 9 displays the GPU resource consumption over 300
training epochs for three different image sizes, denoted by
GPU_MEM. Table 2 describes in detail the performance of
the three sizes of images in terms of the mAP performance
and the mean GPU_MEM. The results show that when the
size is increased, the mAP value is also increased. The rea-
son for this is that the large size of the input images pro-
vides more detailed information, which facilitates the model
to accurately detect subtle features. However, this boost is
not always proportional. For example, while the 1280x1280
size image is the highest mAP, its the mean GPU_MEM con-
sumption is a whopping 20.9G, almost four times that of the
640x640 size. By considering the balance between perfor-
mance and resource consumption, 640x640 size is chosen
as the input for the model in the experiment. This selection
not only considers the mAP performance (4.9% and 12.7%
improvement for the 640x640 mAP50 and mAP50-95, re-
spectively, compared to the 320x320 size), but also the ratio-
nal utilization of GPU resources. For overall consideration,
the 640x640 size is more suitable for the needs of the App-
leYOLO because it ensures higher detection accuracy while
avoids excessive resource consumption.
4.3. Sample Augmentation Analysis
In response to the small experimental samples, the sam-
ples are expanded during the experiments. However, to ver-
ify whether the sample expansion is favorable to the exper-
imental results, two performance metrics, the mAP50 and
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Epochs
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
20
22
24
26
28
30
320x320
640x640
1280x1280
Figure 9: Impact of input image sizes on GPU resource usage.
Table 2
Detailed performance parameters for different input im-
age sizes.
inputSize
mAP50
mAP50-95
m(GPU_MEM)
320x320
0.926
0.62
1.23G
640x640
0.975
0.747
5.38G
1280x1280
0.986
0.796
20.9G
the mAP50-95 are compared. Figure 10 demonstrates the
performance of mAP50, where the original images improve
rapidly in the initial phase and gradually stabilize. However
the augmented images show a more steady boost and beyond
the original images after about 20 epochs. The performance
of the augmented images remains slightly higher than the
original images until the end of 300 epochs. Figure 11 ex-
hibits the performance of the mAP50-95, with more signifi-
cant differences between the original and augmented images.
The performance of the augmented images steadily increases
and remains ahead throughout the experiment. The experi-
ments show that taking a sample augmentation approach has
a significant positive impact on the overall performance of
the model.
4.4. Performance evaluation of Focal Modulation
The feature aggregation module FM of AppleYOLO
plays an important role in the whole model.
By relying
on FM, the contextual information can be effectively aggre-
gated to capture the key information in the image and miti-
gate the effects of different scale sizes. For verification the
effectiveness of the FM, it is compared with several feature
aggregation mechanisms, such as SPPF, LSKA, and AIFI.
Among them, the SPPF is used as a pooling layer for the
YOLOv8, which adaptively fuses information from differ-
ent scales; The LSKA is a Large Separable Kernel Atten-
tion mechanism that can handle the long-range dependency
problem (Lau et al.,2024); The AIFI is an Attention-based
Intra-scale Feature Interaction mechanism is used to over-
come the problem of accuracy and computational efficiency
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 10 of 21
This preprint research paper has not been peer reviewed. Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4861527
Preprint not peer reviewed

Short Title of the Article
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Epochs
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
mAP50
original images
augmented images
Figure 10: The influence of sample augmentation on mAP50.
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Epochs
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
mAP50-95
original images
augmented images
Figure 11: The influence of sample augmentation on mAP50-95.
(a) original image
(b) YOLOv8_SPPF
(c) LSKA
(d) AIFI
(e) FM
Figure 12: FM and other methods for visualising feature maps.
in object detection and recognition (Lv et al.,2023 ). Fig-
ure 12 displays the feature maps of the apple image after
four layers of feature aggregation mechanisms respectively,
and the results indicate that the FM is better able to identify
the spatial location of the apples and capture the key infor-
mation. Figure 13 displays the performance comparison of
the four different methods over 300 training epochs , with
mAP50-95 as the performance metric.
Table 3 summarizes the detailed performance param-
eters of the FM in comparison with other three mecha-
nisms. On the important detection metric mAP0.5-0.95, the
FM leads with 77.1% (a 2.4% improvement over YOLOv8’s
SPPF) and the mAP50 reaches 98%. Meanwhile, the FM
also achieves the highest scores of 95.8% and 94.5% for pre-
cision and recall, respectively. Furthermore, the number of
parameters and the amount of computation (GFLOPS) of the
FM are comparable to the benchmark model, and the per-
formance in terms of frame rate (FPS) is close to optimal.
It means that the FM is both efficient and practical in real-
world applications. As a whole, these parameters prove the
superior performance of the FM in all aspects.
4.5. Performance evaluation of KernelWarehouse
The KWConv is applied to the feature fusion part of the
AppleYOLO. In order to prove that the KWConv can indeed
be advantageous in AppleYOLO, it is compared to other
convolutions and a series of comparison experiments are set
up. Among them, the feature fusion part of the YOLOv8
model uses the c2f to improve the representation of fea-
tures at different scales. The Diverse Branch Block (DBB)
enriches the feature space by combining branches of dif-
ferent sizes and complexities to enhance the representation
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 11 of 21
This preprint research paper has not been peer reviewed. Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4861527
Preprint not peer reviewed

Short Title of the Article
Table 3
Different characteristics of aggregation mechanism performance parameters (Setting the
batch to 1 when calculating FPS).
Name
Size
Precision(%)
Recall(%)
mAP0.5(%)
mAP0.5:0.95(%)
Parameters/M
GFLOPS
FPS(b@1)
YOLOv8_SPPF
640
0.955
0.935
0.975
0.747
3.01
8.1
112.4
LSKA
640
0.957
0.94
0.978
0.755
3.23
8.3
109.5
AIFI
640
0.956
0.938
0.978
0.751
2.93
8.0
89.7
FM
640
0.958
0.945
0.98
0.771
3.11
8.2
110.2
Table 4
Different convolution performance parameters (Setting the batch to 1 when calculating
FPS).
Name
Size
Precision(%)
Recall(%)
mAP0.5(%)
mAP0.5:0.95(%)
Parameters/M
GFLOPS
FPS(b@1)
YOLOv8_C2f
640
0.955
0.935
0.975
0.747
3.01
8.1
112.4
DBB
640
0.954
0.94
0.977
0.751
3.01
8.1
53.8
DCNv3
640
0.952
0.935
0.974
0.742
2.84
7.8
52.5
SCConv
640
0.952
0.933
0.975
0.744
3.95
9.3
55.3
ODConv
640
0.954
0.928
0.972
0.734
3.07
5.7
50.9
D_LKA
640
0.954
0.933
0.974
0.741
3.67
8.6
48.4
KWConv
640
0.958
0.942
0.979
0.764
3.09
4.5
101.2
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Epochs
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
mAP50-95
FM
AIFI
LSKA
YOLOv8_SPPF
250
0.8
Figure 13: The performance comparison of the FM with other
feature aggregation mechanisms.
apability of a single convolution. It can improve network
model performance without any inference time cost (Ding
et al.,2021).
The Deformable Convolution v3 (DCNv3)
adopts a weight sharing strategy similar to regular convo-
lution, and this strategy significantly reduces the number of
parameters and memory usage for large models. Moreover,
it achieves sparse sampling by dividing the convolutional
weights into a depth-dependent part and a point-wise convo-
lutional part. (Wang et al.,2023b). The Self-Calibrated Con-
volutio (SCConv) exploits spatial and channel redundancy
between features for CNN compression to reduce redundant
computation and facilitate learning of representative features
(Liu et al.,2020). The Omni-dimensional Dynamic Convo-
lution (ODConv) leverages a novel multi-dimensional atten-
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Epochs
0
0.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
0.3
0.35
0.4
0.45
0.5
0.55
0.6
0.65
0.7
0.75
0.8
mAP50-95
KWConv
YOLOv8_c2f
DBB
DCNv3
D_LKA
ODConv
SCConv
250
0.7
0.75
0.8
Figure 14: The performance comparison of different convolu-
tions.
tion mechanism and parallel strategy to learn complemen-
tary attention of the convolution kernels across all four di-
mensions of the kernel space in any convolution layer (Li
et al.,2022b). As an alternative to regular convolutions, the
ODConv can be inserted into many CNN architectures. The
Deformable Large Kernel Attention (D_LKA) uses a large
convolutional kernel to fully understand the context and flex-
ibly transforms the sampling networks, thus enabling the
model to adapt to different data patterns and features (Azad
et al.,2023).
Figure 14 presents the mAP50-95 performance metric
of KWConv compared to other convolutions. In the initial
few epochs, the metric for the KWConv start at 0. The rea-
son for this is analysed and find that it is due to the relative
complexity of the structure of the KWConv, which may re-
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 12 of 21
This preprint research paper has not been peer reviewed. Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4861527
Preprint not peer reviewed

Short Title of the Article
(a) original image
(b) YOLOv8_c2f
(c) DBB
(d) DCNv3
(e) SCConv
(f) ODConv
(g) D_LKA
(h) KWConv
Figure 15: KWConv and other methods for visualising feature maps.
quire more time for the model to learn an effective feature
representation in the early stages of training. Nevertheless,
after 100 epochs, the accuracy of the KWConv gradually sur-
passes other convolutions, showing optimal and stabilizing
performance. The results of feature extraction at the feature
fusion layer for KWConv and several other convolutions re-
spectively are shown in Figure 15. Table 4 provides a de-
tailed comparison of the performance between KWConv and
other convolutional models. The KWConv’s performance is
particularly notable, with its mAP50 reaching 97.9%, and
mAP50-95 reaching 76.4%. In comparison to the baseline
model, mAP50-95 improved by 1.7%. With a similar num-
ber of parameters, its computational cost in GFLOPS is re-
duced by 3.6 compared to the baseline model. The results
indicate that the KWConv is both efficient and accurate as a
convolutional network. Although it starts slower in the ini-
tial training phase, it ultimately achieves high performance
while significantly reducing computational costs. Since the
KWConv shows the ability to maintain high accuracy at low
computational cost, it provides greater flexibility to explore
more complex backbone network architectures.
4.6. Performance evaluation of FasterNet
The backbone of the AppleYOLO is the foundation of
the entire network model, like the frame of a building. It
is responsible for extracting and learning shallow features
from images, and the learned features will directly affect the
subsequent layers. Also, the performance of the backbone
network directly affects the overall performance of the net-
work. A powerful backbone can capture rich feature repre-
sentations that help improve the accuracy and robustness of
the whole network. In the AppleYOLO, the FasterNet is em-
ployed as the backbone network. To verify that the Faster-
Net can significantly improve the performance of the App-
leYOLO compared to other neural network architectures, a
series of comparative experiments are designed. Among the
compared models, the Darknet53 is used as the backbone
by YOLOv8; The EfficientViT is an efficient CNN model
similar to FasterNet (Liu et al.,2023); And Swin Trans-
former is a model based on the Transformer architecture (Liu
et al.,2021).
Figure 16 plots the confusion matrix when each of the
four methods is used as the backbone of the model.
In
comparison FasterNet has the lowest probability of incor-
rectly identifying apples as background. Figure 17 shows the
change in the mAP50-95 performance metric with training
epochs for the different methods. Table 5 details the perfor-
mance parameters of several deep neural networks. It can
be observed that the FasterNet as the backbone of the net-
work model outperforms the benchmark model in terms of
accuracy, with a 1.3% improvement in the mAP50-95. Al-
though FasterNet’s computational volume is increased by
2.6, this increase is within acceptable limits. In addition,
the low-computation nature of the KWConv helps to com-
pensate for the slightly higher computation requirements
of the FasterNet, and realizes a balance between total per-
formance and efficiency. However, compared to the Effi-
cientViT, the FasterNet has better overall performance. Al-
though the Swin Transformer has improved accuracy com-
pared to the benchmark model, its number of parameters and
computational complexity are as high as 29.9 and 79.1, re-
spectively. This is approximately 10 times the benchmark
model. Considering the accuracy as well as the number of
parameters and the amount of computation, the FasterNet
performs better in the AppleYOLO.
4.7. Ablation Study
To comprehensively evaluate the validity and perfor-
mance of the AppleYOLO detection, a series of ablation ex-
periments are designed to focus on the three core innovations
of FasterNet, FM and KWConv. By fusing these modules
sequentially in the detection model, it is possible to observe
the impact of each fusion on the overall performance of the
model. This leads to a deeper understanding of the combined
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 13 of 21
This preprint research paper has not been peer reviewed. Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4861527
Preprint not peer reviewed

Short Title of the Article
(a) YOLOv8_Darknet53
(b) EfficienViT
(c) SwinTransformer
(d) FasterNet
Figure 16: FasterNet and other methods for visualising feature maps.
improvement in detection performance of the AppleYOLO
when they work together.
Figure 18 illustrates the effect of sequentially merging
the three modules on the performance of the mAP50-95.
When compared to the baseline model, the mAP50-95 val-
ues increased after each fusion of new modules.
In the
end, the best performance is achieved by completely merg-
ing the three modules, and the model gradually stabilises
during training. Table 6 contains the detailed results of the
ablation experiments. Although the FasterNet and the FM
increase the computational amount slightly (by about 2.7),
their impact on the overall performance is still within a rea-
sonable range. With the subsequent addition of the KW-
Conv, it effectively balances the higher computational and
parametric quantities of the previous model due to its im-
proved parametric efficiency. And the computational and
parametric quantities only increased by 1.42 and 1.6 relative
to the baseline model, respectively. Other than that, the in-
troduction of the KWConv significantly improves the perfor-
mance of the AppleYOLO on mAP50 and mAP50-95 by 1%
and 5.1% respectively compared to the baseline model. Fig-
ure 19 present the visualisation of the ablation experiments
and the results confirm that the introduction of the three core
modules indeed improves the detection.
4.8. Comparison experiments with state-of-the-art
methods
We compare the AppleYOLO detection performance
with the current state-of-the-art deep learning methods
(seven methods methods in Table 7). Figure 21 illustrates
the mAP50-95 performance comparison between the App-
leYOLO and other seven deep learning methods. With an in-
crease in training epochs, the AppleYOLO gradually shows
significant superiority in this performance metric over oth-
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 14 of 21
This preprint research paper has not been peer reviewed. Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4861527
Preprint not peer reviewed

Short Title of the Article
Table 5
Detailed performance parameters of different depth neural networks (Setting the batch to
1 when calculating FPS).
Name
Size
Precision(%)
Recall(%)
mAP0.5(%)
mAP0.5:0.95(%)
Parameters/M
GFLOPS
FPS(b@1)
YOLOv8_Darknet53
640
0.955
0.935
0.975
0.747
3.01
8.1
112.4
EfficienViT
640
0.957
0.935
0.976
0.743
4.01
9.4
37.5
SwinTransformer
640
0.952
0.943
0.98
0.753
29.9
79.1
47.3
FasterNet
640
0.958
0.946
0.98
0.76
4.17
10.7
96.9
Table 6
Detailed performance parameters in ablation experiment (Setting the batch to 1 when
calculating FPS).
Name
Precision(%) Recall(%)
mAP0.5(%) mAP0.5:0.95(%) Parameters/M GFLOPS FPS(b@1)
YOLOv8
0.955
0.935
0.975
0.747
3.01
8.1
112.4
YOLOv8+FasterNet
0.958
0.946
0.98
0.76
4.17
10.7
96.9
YOLOv8+FasterNet+FM
0.961
0.952
0.982
0.78
5.23
10.8
99.6
YOLOv8+FasterNet+FM+KWConv
0.966(↑)
0.958(↑)
0.985(↑)
0.798(↑)
4.43(↑)
9.7
100.3
Table 7
Detailed performance parameters of different deep learning methods (Setting the batch to
1 when calculating FPS).
Name
Size
Precision(%)
Recall(%)
mAP0.5(%)
mAP0.5:0.95(%)
Parameters/M
GFLOPS
FPS(b@1)
YOLOv3-tiny
640
0.959
0.93
0.97
0.739
12.13
18.9
291.3
YOLOv5
640
0.947
0.929
0.972
0.728
2.5
7.1
94.8
YOLOv6
640
0.944
0.919
0.968
0.72
4.23
11.8
122.1
YOLOv7
640
0.96
0.97
0.987
0.726
37.2
105.1
35.5
YOLOv8
640
0.955
0.935
0.975
0.747
3.01
8.1
112.4
RT-DETR
640
0.955
0.943
0.978
0.738
9.48
16.7
43.6
YOLOv9-c
640
0.965
0.957
0.986
0.8
51
238.9
39
AppleYOLO
640
0.966
0.958
0.985
0.798
4.43
9.7
100.3
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Epochs
0
0.04
0.08
0.12
0.16
0.2
0.24
0.28
0.32
0.36
0.4
0.44
0.48
0.52
0.56
0.6
0.64
0.68
0.72
0.76
0.8
mAP50-95
FasterNet
YOLOv8_Darknet53
EfficienViT
Swin Transformer
250
0.68
0.72
0.76
0.8
0.76
Figure 17: The FasterNet and other deep neural network per-
formance parameters.
ers. In particular, the AppleYOLO performance surpasses
the latest YOLOv9-c (Wang and Liao,2024) and RT-DETR
(Lv et al.,2023).
Table 7 details the performance parameters of the Ap-
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Epochs
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
mAP50-95
YOLOv8+FasterNet+FM+KWConv
YOLOv8+FasterNet+FM
YOLOv8+FasterNet
YOLOv8
Figure 18: The results of the apple detection model ablation
experiment.
pleYOLO in comparison with seven other methods.
Al-
though the mAP50 of the YOLOv3-tiny (Redmon and
Farhadi,2018) is close to the mAP50 of the AppleYOLO, its
the mAP50-95 difference is 5.9%. Moreover, the YOLOv3-
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 15 of 21
This preprint research paper has not been peer reviewed. Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4861527
Preprint not peer reviewed

Short Title of the Article
(a) YOLOv8+FasterNet
(b) YOLOv8+FasterNet+FM
(c) YOLOv8+FasterNet+FM+KWConv
Figure 19: Visualization results of ablation experiments.
tiny has a much larger number of parameters and compu-
tations. However, the performance parameters of the Ap-
pleYOLO are basically optimal compared to the YOLOv5
(Li et al.,2023) and YOLOv6 (Li et al.,2022a). In particular,
while the YOLOv7 (Wang et al.,2023a) gives good results in
terms of the Precision, Recall, and mAP, its large number of
parameters and computation also imply a high consumption
of computational resources. It means that the YOLOv7 may
not be the most ideal option in resource-constrained environ-
ments. Then, compared to the benchmark method YOLOv8,
the AppleYOLO’s mAP50 and mAP50-95 are improved by
1% and 5.1%, respectively. And the number of parameters
and computation are similar to the YOLOv8. Besides, the
AppleYOLO maintains a similar level of mAP compared
to the latest large-scale model YOLOv9-c, but the AppleY-
OLO significantly outperforms the YOLOv9-c in terms of
the number of parameters, the amount of computation, and
the processing speed. Figure 20 displays a visualisation of
some of the comparative experimental results. In contrast to
AppleYOLO, several other methods performed poorly in at
least one of the following three cases: accurately detecting
apples obscured by leaves; accurately identifying apples that
overlap each other; and accurately discriminating between
green leaves and green apples.
4.9. Evaluation of the counting method
To evaluate the impact of the counting algorithm Deep
OC-SORT on the apple yield estimation method AppleY-
OLO, 49 apple images are selected for testing. The number
of apples in each image is manually labelled as a standard
to compare and validate the counting results of the algo-
rithm. Figure 22 presents the regression analysis between
algorithmic counting and manual counting. A strong cor-
relation between algorithmic counting and manual counting
can be clearly observed (R² = 0.95). It shows that the App-
leYOLO can accurately reflect the actual number of apples
in the vast majority of cases. Figure 23 displays that the
difference between the algorithm counting and the manual
counting is mainly focused around zero. This indicates that
the algorithm counting is typically very close to the manual
counting. Specifically, more than 90% of the images show a
counting error within an acceptable range (less than or equal
to 6). This reveals that the apple counting method is not
only reliable but also highly accurate, making it potentially
directly applicable in the agricultural field for real-time esti-
mation of apple yield.
5. Conclusion
To accurately estimate apple yield in complex orchard
environments, an Apple yield estimate method based on
YOLOv8 and Deep OC-SORT (AppleYOLO) is proposed.
The method enhance the ability to extract apple feature in-
formation by merging several advanced techniques. Includ-
ing the FasterNet, a fast neural network to fully extract ap-
ple edge messages; The Focal Modulation, a feature aggre-
gation strategy for enhanced feature representation (apple
size and location); And the KernelWarehouse, a Towards
Parameter-Efficient Dynamic Convolution technique to im-
prove the ability of learning complex features. Additionally,
a new method for apple counting based on motion analysis
called Deep OC-SORT is introduced in AppleYOLO, and
this method exhibits significant results in improving the ac-
curacy of apple counting. The experimental results suggest
that the AppleYOLO achieves a high accuracy of 98.5% on
the standard detection metric mAP50, as well as 79.8% on
the more stringent mAP50-95 metric. And compared with
the benchmark model, it improves by 1% and 5.1%, respec-
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 16 of 21
This preprint research paper has not been peer reviewed. Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4861527
Preprint not peer reviewed

Short Title of the Article
YOLOv3-tiny
YOLOv5
YOLOv6
YOLOv7
YOLOv8
RT-DETR
AppleYOLO
Leaves cover fruits
Overlap between fruits
Apples resembling leaves
Figure 20: Visualization of some comparative experimental results.
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 17 of 21
This preprint research paper has not been peer reviewed. Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4861527
Preprint not peer reviewed

Short Title of the Article
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Epochs
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
mAP50-95
AppleYOLO
YOLOv3-tiny
YOLOv5
YOLOv6
YOLOv7
YOLOv8
RT-DETR
Figure 21: The AppleYOLO detection performance compari-
son with different deep learning methods.
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
Algorithm Counts
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
Ground Truth Counts
y = 0.9817x -1.679
    R² = 0.95304
Figure 22: The results of the Linear Regression Analysis be-
tween the algorithmic counting versus the manual counting.
tively. It is worth mentioning that the apple counting method
is highly similar to the manual counting results (R²=0.95).
Meanwhile, the AppleYOLO maintains a high speed per-
formance of 100.3FPS, ensuring stable and real-time count-
ing capability. The results of these experiments evidence
the great potential of the AppleYOLO to improve the effi-
ciency for the Precision Agriculture, especially in meeting
the requirements of high accuracy and timeliness of orchard
yield estimation. Through the continuous optimisation of
the AppleYOLO model size and generalization ability, we
expect to provide more reliable and efficient technical sup-
port for the Precision Agriculture. We also expect to achieve
high-precision management and yield estimation of diversi-
fied crops, expanding the application scope of the model.
Funding
This work was supported in part by the National Natu-
ral Science Foundation of China under Grant 62072477, the
Figure 23: The difference between algorithmic counting and
manual Counting.
Hunan Provincial Natural Science Foundation of China un-
der Grant 2024JJ5648, the Scientific Research Fund of Hu-
nan Provincial Education Department under Grant 18B197,
the National Key R&D Program of China under Grant
2023YFD220170300, the Hunan Key Laboratory of Intel-
ligent Logistics Technology 2019TP1015.
CRediT authorship contribution statement
Shiting Tan: Writing – original draft preparation, Data
acquisition, Visualization, Validation. Zhufang Kuang: Method-
ology, Writing – review & editing. Boyu Jin: Data acquisi-
tion, Formal analysis.
References
Azad, R., Niggemeier, L., Huttemann, M., Kazerouni,
A., Aghdam, E.K., Velichko, Y., Bagci, U., Mer-
hof, D., 2023. Beyond Self-Attention: Deformable
Large Kernel Attention for Medical Image Segmenta-
tion arXiv:2309.00121.
Bai, T., Zhang, N., Mercatoris, B., Chen, Y., 2019. Im-
proving Jujube Fruit Tree Yield Estimation at the Field
Scale by Assimilating a Single Landsat Remotely-
Sensed LAI into the WOFOST Model. Remote Sens-
ing 11. doi:10.3390/rs11091119.
Cao, Y., Chen, J., Zhang, Z., 2023. A sheep dynamic count-
ing scheme based on the fusion between an improved-
sparrow-search YOLOv5x-ECA model and few-shot
deepsort algorithm.
Computers and Electronics in
Agriculture 206, 107696. URL: https://doi.org/10.
1016/j.compag.2023.107696.
Chen, J., Kao, S.h., He, H., Zhuo, W., Wen, S., Lee,
C.H., Chan, S.H.G., 2023. Run, Don’t Walk: Chasing
Higher FLOPS for Faster Neural Networks, in: 2023
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 18 of 21
This preprint research paper has not been peer reviewed. Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4861527
Preprint not peer reviewed

Short Title of the Article
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pat-
tern Recognition (CVPR), pp. 12021–12031. doi:10.
1109/CVPR52729.2023.01157.
Chen, Z., Ho, P.H., 2021. A generic shift-norm-activation
approach for deep learning. Pattern Recognition 109,
107609.
URL: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patcog.
2020.107609.
Cui, J., Zheng, H., Zeng, Z., Yang, Y., Ma, R., Tian,
Y., Tan, J., Feng, X., Qi, L., 2023.
Real-time
missing seedling counting in paddy fields based on
lightweight network and tracking-by-detection algo-
rithm. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 212,
108045.
URL: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.
2023.108045.
Ding, X., Zhang, X., Han, J., Ding, G., 2021.
Di-
verse Branch Block: Building a Convolution as an
Inception-like Unit, in:
2021 IEEE/CVF Confer-
ence on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR), pp. 10881–10890.
doi:10.1109/CVPR46437.
2021.01074.
Du, X., Cheng, H., Ma, Z., Lu, W., Wang, M., Meng, Z.,
Jiang, C., Hong, F., 2023.
DSW-YOLO: A detec-
tion method for ground-planted strawberry fruits un-
der different occlusion levels. Computers and Elec-
tronics in Agriculture 214, 108304.
URL: https:
//doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2023.108304.
Feng, K., Lun, L., Wang, X., Cui, X., 2023.
LRTrans-
Det: A Real-Time SAR Ship-Detection Network with
Lightweight ViT and Multi-Scale Feature Fusion. Re-
mote Sensing 15. doi:10.3390/rs15225309.
Fu, L., F.Y.W.J.e.a., 2021.
Fast and accurate detection
of kiwifruit in orchard using improved YOLOv3-tiny
model. Precision Agric 22, 754–776. URL: https:
//doi.org/10.1007/s11119-020-09754-y.
Gao, C., Guo, W., Yang, C., Gong, Z., Yue, J., Fu, Y., Feng,
H., 2024.
A fast and lightweight detection model
for wheat fusarium head blight spikes in natural en-
vironments. Computers and Electronics in Agricul-
ture 216, 108484. URL: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
compag.2023.108484.
Gao, F., Fang, W., Sun, X., Wu, Z., Zhao, G., Li, G., Li,
R., Fu, L., Zhang, Q., 2022. A novel apple fruit detec-
tion and counting methodology based on deep learn-
ing and trunk tracking in modern orchard. Computers
and Electronics in Agriculture 197, 107000.
URL:
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2022.107000.
Guo, M.H., Liu, Z.N., Mu, T.J., Hu, S.M., 2023. Beyond
Self-Attention: External Attention Using Two Lin-
ear Layers for Visual Tasks. IEEE Transactions on
Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence 45, 5436–
5447. doi:10.1109/TPAMI.2022.3211006.
Gómez-Lagos, J.E., González-Araya, M.C., Ortega Blu,
R., Acosta Espejo, L.G., 2023. A new method based
on machine learning to forecast fruit yield using spec-
trometric data: analysis in a fruit supply chain con-
text. Precision Agriculture 24, 326–352. URL: https:
//doi.org/10.1007/s11119-022-09947-7.
He, L., Fang, W., Zhao, G., Wu, Z., Fu, L., Li, R.,
Majeed, Y., Dhupia, J., 2022.
Fruit yield predic-
tion and estimation in orchards: A state-of-the-art
comprehensive review for both direct and indirect
methods. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture
195, 106812. URL: https://www.sciencedirect.com/
science/article/pii/S0168169922001296.
Huang, H., Huang, J., Wu, Y., Zhuo, W., Song, J., Li,
X., Li, L., Su, W., Ma, H., Liang, S., 2023.
The
Improved Winter Wheat Yield Estimation by As-
similating GLASS LAI Into a Crop Growth Model
With the Proposed Bayesian Posterior-Based Ensem-
ble Kalman Filter. IEEE Transactions on Geoscience
and Remote Sensing 61, 1–18. doi:10.1109/TGRS.2023.
3259742.
Lau, K.W., Po, L.M., Rehman, Y.A.U., 2024. Large Sepa-
rable Kernel Attention: Rethinking the Large Kernel
Attention design in CNN. Expert Systems with Appli-
cations 236, 121352. URL: https://doi.org/10.1016/
j.eswa.2023.121352.
Li, C., Li, L., Jiang, H., Weng, K., Geng, Y., Li, L., Ke, Z.,
Li, Q., Cheng, M., Nie, W., Li, Y., Zhang, B., Liang,
Y., Zhou, L., Xu, X., Chu, X., Wei, X., Wei, X., 2022a.
YOLOv6: A Single-Stage Object Detection Frame-
work for Industrial Applications arXiv:2209.02976.
Li,
C.,
Yao,
A.,
2023.
KernelWarehouse:
To-
wards
Parameter-Efficient
Dynamic
Convolution
arXiv:2308.08361.
Li, C., Zhou, A., Yao, A., 2022b. Omni-Dimensional Dy-
namic Convolution, in: International Conference on
Learning Representations. URL: https://openreview.
net/forum?id=DmpCfq6Mg39.
Li, Y., Ma, R., Zhang, R., Cheng, Y., Dong, C., 2023. A
Tea Buds Counting Method Based on YOLOv5 and
Kalman Filter Tracking Algorithm. Plant Phenomics
5, 0030. doi:10.34133/plantphenomics.0030.
Li, Z., Jiang, J., Chen, X., Zhang, M., Wang, Y., Li, Q., Qi,
H., Liu, M., Laganière, R., 2024a. Scale-pyramid dy-
namic atrous convolution for pixel-level labeling. Ex-
pert Systems with Applications 241, 122695. URL:
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2023.122695.
Li, Z., Zhu, Y., Sui, S., Zhao, Y., Liu, P., Li, X., 2024b.
Real-time detection and counting of wheat ears based
on improved YOLOv7. Computers and Electronics in
Agriculture 218, 108670. URL: https://doi.org/10.
1016/j.compag.2024.108670.
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 19 of 21
This preprint research paper has not been peer reviewed. Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4861527
Preprint not peer reviewed

Short Title of the Article
Liu, J.J., Hou, Q., Cheng, M.M., Wang, C., Feng, J.,
2020. Improving Convolutional Networks With Self-
Calibrated Convolutions, in: 2020 IEEE/CVF Con-
ference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR), pp. 10093–10102.
doi:10.1109/CVPR42600.
2020.01011.
Liu, X., Peng, H., Zheng, N., Yang, Y., Hu, H., Yuan, Y.,
2023. EfficientViT: Memory Efficient Vision Trans-
former with Cascaded Group Attention, in:
2023
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pat-
tern Recognition (CVPR), pp. 14420–14430. doi:10.
1109/CVPR52729.2023.01386.
Liu, Z., Lin, Y., Cao, Y., Hu, H., Wei, Y., Zhang, Z.,
Lin, S., Guo, B., 2021.
Swin Transformer: Hier-
archical Vision Transformer using Shifted Windows
abs/2103.14030, 9992–10002. arXiv:2103.14030.
Lv, W., Xu, S., Zhao, Y., Wang, G., Wei, J., Cui, C., Du,
Y., Dang, Q., Liu, Y., 2023. DETRs Beat YOLOs on
Real-time Object Detection arXiv:2304.08069.
Maggiolino, G., Ahmad, A., Cao, J., Kitani, K., 2023.
Deep OC-Sort: Multi-Pedestrian Tracking by Adap-
tive Re-Identification, in: 2023 IEEE International
Conference on Image Processing (ICIP), pp. 3025–
3029. doi:10.1109/ICIP49359.2023.10222576.
Mirhaji, H., Soleymani, M., Asakereh, A., Abdanan
Mehdizadeh, S., 2021. Fruit detection and load esti-
mation of an orange orchard using the YOLO models
through simple approaches in different imaging and il-
lumination conditions. Computers and Electronics in
Agriculture 191, 106533. URL: https://doi.org/10.
1016/j.compag.2021.106533.
Oliveira, L.S.d., Castoldi, R., Martins, G.D., Medeiros,
M.H., 2023. Estimation of Strawberry Crop Produc-
tivity by Machine Learning Algorithms Using Data
from Multispectral Images. Agronomy 13. doi:10.
3390/agronomy13051229.
Redmon, J., Farhadi, A., 2018. YOLOv3: An Incremen-
tal Improvement.
Computing Research Repository
abs/1804.02767.
Ren, W., Wang, X., Tian, J., Tang, Y., Chan, A.B.,
2021. Tracking-by-Counting: Using Network Flows
on Crowd Density Maps for Tracking Multiple Tar-
gets.
IEEE Transactions on Image Processing 30,
1439–1452. doi:10.1109/TIP.2020.3044219.
Rong, J., Zhou, H., Zhang, F., Yuan, T., Wang, P., 2023.
Tomato cluster detection and counting using improved
YOLOv5 based on RGB-D fusion.
Computers and
Electronics in Agriculture 207, 107741. URL: https:
//doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2023.107741.
Sandler, M., Howard, A., Zhu, M., Zhmoginov, A., Chen,
L.C., 2018.
MobileNetV2: Inverted Residuals and
Linear Bottlenecks, in: 2018 IEEE/CVF Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pp.
4510–4520. doi:10.1109/CVPR.2018.00474.
Shen,
L.,
Su,
J.,
He,
R.,
Song,
L.,
Huang,
R.,
Fang, Y., Song, Y., Su, B., 2023.
Real-time
tracking and counting of grape clusters in the
field based on channel pruning with YOLOv5s.
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 206,
107662.
URL:
https://www.sciencedirect.com/
science/article/pii/S0168169923000509.
Wang, C.Y., Bochkovskiy, A., Liao, H.Y.M., 2023a.
YOLOv7: Trainable Bag-of-Freebies Sets New State-
of-the-Art for Real-Time Object Detectors, in: Pro-
ceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pp. 7464–
7475.
Wang, C.Y., Liao, H.Y.M., 2024.
YOLOv9: Learning
What You Want to Learn Using Programmable Gra-
dient Information arXiv:2402.13616.
Wang, W., Dai, J., Chen, Z., Huang, Z., Li, Z., Zhu, X.,
Hu, X., Lu, T., Lu, L., Li, H., Wang, X., Qiao, Y.,
2023b. InternImage: Exploring Large-Scale Vision
Foundation Models with Deformable Convolutions,
in: 2023 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pp. 14408–14419.
doi:10.1109/CVPR52729.2023.01385.
Wulfsohn, D., Aravena Zamora, F., Potin Téllez, C.,
Zamora Lagos, I., García-Fiñana, M., 2012. Multi-
level systematic sampling to estimate total fruit num-
ber for yield forecasts.
Precision Agriculture 13,
256–275. doi:10.1007/s11119-011-9245-2.
Xia, X., Chai, X., Zhang, N., Zhang, Z., Sun, Q., Sun, T.,
2022. Culling Double Counting in Sequence Images
for Fruit Yield Estimation. Agronomy 12. doi:10.
3390/agronomy12020440.
Xiong, Z., Wang, L., Zhao, Y., Lan, Y., 2023. Precision
Detection of Dense Litchi Fruit in UAV Images Based
on Improved YOLOv5 Model. Remote Sensing 15.
URL: https://www.mdpi.com/2072-4292/15/16/4017.
Yang, J., Li, C., Dai, X., Gao, J., 2022. Focal Modula-
tion Networks. Advances in Neural Information Pro-
cessing Systems (NeurIPS) doi:10.48550/arXiv.2203.
11926.
Ye, T., Zhang, J., Zhao, Z., Zhou, F., 2022.
Foreign
Body Detection in Rail Transit Based on a Multi-
Mode Feature-Enhanced Convolutional Neural Net-
work. IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transporta-
tion Systems 23, 18051–18063.
doi:10.1109/TITS.
2022.3154751.
Zhang, W., Wang, J., Liu, Y., Chen, K., Li, H., Duan, Y.,
Wu, W., Shi, Y., Guo, W., 2022. Deep-learning-based
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 20 of 21
This preprint research paper has not been peer reviewed. Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4861527
Preprint not peer reviewed

Short Title of the Article
in-field citrus fruit detection and tracking. Horticul-
ture Research 9, uhac003. doi:10.1093/hr/uhac003.
Zhang, Y., Zhou, G., Chen, A., He, M., Li, J., Hu, Y.,
2023. A precise apple leaf diseases detection using
BCTNet under unconstrained environments. Comput-
ers and Electronics in Agriculture 212, 108132. URL:
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2023.108132.
Üzen, H., Türkoğlu, M., Yanikoglu, B., Hanbay, D., 2022.
Swin-MFINet: Swin transformer based multi-feature
integration network for detection of pixel-level sur-
face defects. Expert Systems with Applications 209,
118269. URL: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2022.
118269.
First Author et al.: Preprint submitted to Elsevier
Page 21 of 21
This preprint research paper has not been peer reviewed. Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4861527
Preprint not peer reviewed
