Slicing aided large scale tomato fruit detection and
counting in 360-degree video data from a greenhouse
Citation
TUREČKOVÁ, Alžběta, Tomáš TUREČEK, Peter JANKŮ, Pavel VAŘACHA, Roman ŠENKEŘÍK, Roman
JAŠEK, Václav PSOTA, Vít ŠTĚPÁNEK, and Zuzana KOMÍNKOVÁ OPLATKOVÁ. Slicing aided large scale
tomato fruit detection and counting in 360-degree video data from a greenhouse. Measurement:
Journal of the International Measurement Confederation [online]. vol. 204, Elsevier, 2022, [cit.
2024-02-01]. ISSN 0263-2241. Available at
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0263224122011733
DOI
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.measurement.2022.111977
Permanent link
https://publikace.k.utb.cz/handle/10563/1011191
This document is the Accepted Manuscipt version of the
article that can be shared via institutional repository.
publikace.k.utb.cz

Slicing aided large scale tomato fruit detection and counting in 360-
degree video data from a greenhouse 
Alžběta Turečkováa, Tomáš Turečeka, Peter Jankůa, Pavel Vařachaa, Roman Šenkeříka, Roman Jašeka, 
Václav Psotac, Vit Štěpánek b, Zuzana Komínková Oplatkováa,* 
a Tomas Bata University in Zlin, Faculty of Applied Informatics, Nam. T. G. Masaryka 5555, Zlín, 760 01, 
Czech Republic  
b NWT a.s., Trida Tomase Bati 269, Zlin, 760 01, Czech Republic  
c Farma Bezdinek, s.r.o., K Bezdinku 1515, Dolni Lutyne, 735 53, Czech Republic 
 
ABSTRACT 
This paper proposes an automated tomato fruit detection and counting process without a need for 
any human intervention. First of all, wide images of whole tomato plant rows were extracted from a 
360-degree video taken in a greenhouse. These images were utilized to create a new object detection 
dataset. The original tomato detection methodology uses a deep CNN model with slicing-aided 
inference. The process encompasses two stages: first, the images are cut into patches for object 
detection, and consequently, the predictions are stitched back together. The paper also presents an 
extensive study of post-processing parameters needed to stitch object detections correctly, especially 
on the patch's borders. Final results reach 83.09% F1 score value on a test set, proving the suitability 
of the proposed methodology for robotic farming. 
Keywords: Tomato fruit detection, Tomato fruit counting, 360-degree video, Image processing, 
Computer vision, Deep CNN, Slicing aided inference, Robotic farming 
 
1. Introduction and motivation 
 
The concept of precise agriculture is aimed to provide an effective crop management system [1]. By 
precisely monitoring the plant's health and crop physiological status, precise agriculture aims to use 
cost-effective fertilizer application, pesticide application, plant management, and more. The 
mandatory part of this concept is a detailed set of information about a representative amount of plants 
or field sections that are necessary to gain as often as possible. For example, the Ohio Agricultural 
Research and Development Center [2] operates a web-based decision support system for decision 
support in greenhouse climate control. The author of [3] extends the methodology by studying the 
optimality degrees of microclimate parameters such as air temperature and relative humidity. 
Even if various sets of sensors are used for monitoring the plant, every new piece of information can 
increase its accuracy. This research is aimed to provide a new method of tomato fruit detection and 
counting. Knowing the fruit's size and location in the greenhouse can be utilized for precise harvest 
prediction. Any difference between accurate harvest prediction and actual harvest can point out some 
new plant stress situations in the greenhouses. 
Moreover, the harvest prediction itself is an essential business aspect of commercial tomato growing 
in greenhouses. The tomato delivery contracts are based on tomato harvest predictions in the 

following week. The greenhouse management is usually committed to delivering a specific volume of 
tomatoes on a particular week or day. Therefore, every difference between harvest prediction and 
actual harvest can cause significant commercial losses and logistic problems. The further described 
research was performed on a dataset created in cooperation with a specific tomato greenhouse 
company. Based on information from various greenhouse agronomists, an estimation of a new harvest 
is mainly based on the agronomist's experiences. Nowadays, the greenhouse agronomist estimates a 
new harvest based on information about crop growth factors, pest and disease status, weather 
forecasts, planned tasks in the greenhouse, and previous harvest. An average error of estimation 
accuracy usually is around 10-20 percent but can fluctuate distinctly. Even if the visual greenhouse 
inspection can provide sufficient information, the exact tomato count can significantly improve the 
harvest prediction. 
The precision of a tomato counting solution is not the only requirement for the desired system. Due 
to the large area of commercial tomato greenhouses, any possibility of counting automatization is very 
beneficial, too, since it simplifies and speeds up the prediction processes. Our proposed approach uses 
a simple 360-degree camera mounted on an autonomous or semiautonomous robotic system. The 
processing phase is detached from the data acquisition; therefore, the capturing process is 
straightforward and quick. 
Here, we summarize main contributions of a presented work:  
• We present a unique automated process of detecting and counting tomato fruit in a greenhouse 
without human intervention. ith our methodology, we can not only estimate but count the exact 
numbers of fruits present in one whole plant row of a greenhouse. The process consists of three main 
phases: 
1. First, a wide image is extracted from a 360-degree video of an entire tomato plant row in a 
greenhouse. 
2. Second, the wide image is cut into overlapping patches, and a deep CNN model is applied for 
tomato detection. 
3. Third, the model predictions were stitched together to form a comprehensive output detecting 
all tomato fruits in the whole tomato row of a green house. 
• we provide an extensive study of post-processing parameters applied during the image stitching 
phase (i.e., step three) to ensure the best quality of the final output. 
The following parts of the paper describe specific steps of our developed algorithm acquiring the 
source data, image preprocessing, tomato detection, and tomato counting. Furthermore, the crucial 
aspects of each used method are described. Finally, the evaluation results are provided at the end of 
the paper. 
 
2. State of the art 
Since the harvest prediction is essential for further commercial activities, the principal emphasis of this 
research was accurate tomato fruit detection and amount counting. Nowadays, the machine learning 
techniques, including deep learning convolutional neural networks (CNN) applied also by authors, 
dominate a machine vision field. The following subsections deal with the detailed inspection of current 
technologies for successful predicting. 
 

2.1. Fruit detection and counting 
Many researchers have investigated fruit detection over the past several decades. Authors of [4,5] 
brought a valuable overview and significant improvements in the field. Traditional image processing 
techniques have many constraints, making applying the algorithms to other fruits or environments 
hard. They often struggle with uneven illumination, and incorrect leaf detection [6]. The growth and 
development of artificial intelligence techniques enabled the application of machine learning to 
computer vision tasks in agriculture, and it has practically dominated the field. 
Authors of [7] present a multi-class fruit detection system utilizing an adjusted Faster RCNN model. 
The paper focuses mainly on model adjustments and training process automation. For this purpose, it 
utilizes the artificially created dataset [8] where the fruits were filmed while rotating around a fixed 
axis on a white background. On this dataset, they achieved a mean average precision of 88.94%. 
Unfortunately, the results for the tomato class are not stated in the paper; even though it is present in 
the original dataset, the authors present results only for apple, mango, and orange. 
The paper [9] proposes an improved YOLOv3-tiny architecture for tomato detection in real-time. The 
experimental results show that the F1 score of the model is 91.92%, while the detection speed on a 
CPU can reach 25 frames/s. Another paper also utilizes the YOLO-based architecture, presenting a 
YOLO-tomato detector [10]. It modifies the well-known YOLOv3 architecture for object detection by 
adding the dense connections between the layers for feature extraction and by applying the circular 
bounding box instead of the classic rectangle. YOLO-tomato model achieves an excellent 93.91% F1-
score. 
The above referred research only focused on tomato detection in images directly capturing a tomato 
or a tomato cluster. Compared to that, the paper [11] analyzes the images of the whole tomato plant 
from a greenhouse, similarly as we do. The Faster RCNN with 101-Resnet backbone model was utilized 
and obtained an F1-score of 83.67%. Compared to the previously stated research, the performance 
drop can be accounted to a more compilated scenario, including more small immature tomatoes and 
frequent obstruction by leaves. Although the authors provide the yield mapping of the whole image 
row by stitching the images together, the counting results were estimated only on single images, which 
should, by principle, bring additional errors into the final count: the tomatoes on the overlapped 
borders would be counted twice. 
A few research papers deal with fruit counting on a large scale, i.e., accessing the whole crop counts. 
The authors of [12] attempt to produce a real-time pear fruit counter using a video captured by a 
mobile phone capturing the bottom side of the joint-tree pear orchard. It utilizes real-time object 
detection by the YOLOv4-tiny model and consequently applies the unique ID deep sort method for 
pear counting, achieving an F1 score of 87.85%. Compared to our scenario, pears do not form 
trusses/clusters, and the sky forms a relatively uniform background, making the detection process 
more straightforward. 
Finally, the paper [13] presents a similar goal as our work, delivering an approach for detection, 
counting, and maturity assessment of cherry tomatoes using multi-spectral images. Authors train deep 
CNN networks on images captured in a tomato greenhouse. Consequently, similar to the paper [12], 
they apply the DeepSORT algorithm to track the tomatoes in a video. The value F1-score is not stated; 
the IDF1-score achieved by the best solution is 51.4%. The results show that detecting and tracking 
objects in complicated and obscured scenes of tomato growth is very challenging. On the contrary, our 
approach eliminates the tricky part of object tracking, making the whole process easier. 

In our paper, we present a different solution. The objects are not detected in video frames, but rather 
a extra wide image capturing the whole tomato plant row was produced first. This big image is cut into 
overlapping patches, which are processed by an object detector, and the output predictions are then 
stitched together to form the final output. The extended study of the post-processing parameters was 
performed to ensure the best possible outcome of the stitching procedure. The study of common 
techniques utilized after bounding box regression to eliminate redundant bounding boxes is provided 
in the following Section 2.2. 
 
2.2. Object detection post-processing methods 
Non-maximum suppression (NMS) has been an integral part of many detection algorithms in computer 
vision for almost 50 years. It was first employed in edge detection techniques [14]. For human 
detection, Dalal and Triggs [15] demonstrated that a greedy NMS algorithm, where a bounding box 
with the maximum detection score is selected and its neighboring boxes are suppressed using a 
predefined overlap threshold improves performance over the approach used for face detection [16]. 
Greedy NMS still obtains the best performance when average precision (AP) is used as an evaluation 
metric and is therefore considered the gold standard and is employed in state-of-the-art detector 
Faster R-CNN [17]. 
Over the years, some new approaches have been presented. Authors of [18] propose Soft-NMS, which 
attempts to address the problem of classic NMS that it suppresses even a correctly detected object if 
the object lies within the predefined overlap threshold. The algorithm decays the detection scores of 
all other objects as a continuous function of their overlap with the first most confident one. Hence, no 
object is eliminated, just the confidence score is lowered. Another approach is presented in [19], the 
algorithm judges the neighboring bounding boxes of each bounding box and combines the neighboring 
boxes that are strongly correlated with the corresponding bounding boxes. This approach was 
designed for instance segmentation, showing a steady increase of accuracy. 
Our scenario deals with a slightly different problem of multiple detections. The original wide image is 
split into overlapping patches; consequently, there are multiple detections in the overlapping areas of 
the final output. Therefore, aside from a classical suppression after model inference, we also need to 
apply post-processing suppression to the final stitched output. e apply an extensive study of different 
post-processing suppression algorithms to achieve the best possible output. 
 
3. Methods 
This section describes the methodology from automatic data acquisition to the final number of tomato 
fruits detected. 
 
3.1. Field data collection 
As was mentioned in Section 2.1, the well-known approach in already published research about fruit 
detection uses object detection algorithms applied on a video stream or simple images of plants. The 
practical usage of this approach faces several limitations. The alleys between each tomato row are 
narrow, while the vertical range of tomato fruits on the plant is wide. Therefore the vertical field of 
view (FOV) of the used camera needs to be more than 90 degrees to capture the full plant height. 
Another limitation is based on the requirement for maximal counting accuracy. hen applying image 

detection in single video frames or overlapping photos, some indexing or tracking algorithm must be 
used to prevent multiple counting of single tomato fruit. We have chosen a different approach and 
used 360 degrees camera (Ricoh Theta Z1 with high resolution 4 K UHD (3840 X 2160) video) for image 
acquisition to cover the necessary wide field of view. Moreover, our algorithm works only with the 
source image from the camera. This approach has two significant consequences. First, the process of 
data acquisition and data processing can be separated. Second, the automation of the data acquisition 
can be done by simple autonomous or semiautonomous devices and by mounting the camera devices 
on already existing technical equipment in greenhouses such as for instance commonly used trolleys. 
The source videos for experiments described in this paper were acquired during several visits of 
authors in the hydroponic greenhouse of the company Farma Bezdínek (Dolní Lutyně, Czech Republic) 
in 2020 and 2021. The videos were taken during the harvest period of the fully developed crops cherry 
tomato (10-12 g/fruit) and cocktail (35-45 g/fruit). The camera was mounted on a greenhouse trolley 
(Berkvens - Control Lift), allowing a maximum 5 km/ha speed. 
 
3.1.1. Video converting 
The 360-degree camera produces a video stream with two 180 degree views captured by a fisheye 
camera lens. In the first preprocess phase, the two views are stitched into one panorama 
equirectangular projection. This projection captures an almost 180 degrees vertical view of the tomato 
row. Although the upper and bottom details of the picture might be distorted, the middle part of the 
image can be successfully used for tomato detection. Moreover, we can capture both sides of the alley 
both tomato plant rows at once. 
The process of image production from a video follows. Firstly, the video is decomposed into individual 
frames. Only the part directly capturing the row of tomatoes is extracted from the 360-degree 
equirectangular frame. A small vertical region directly in front of the camera is clipped out of each 
frame. Consequently, these clipped regions are stitched together, forming one wide picture of the 
whole row. Deformities on the bottom and the top of the picture caused by the 180-degree view are 
mathematically compensated. This approach allows us to work with a wide picture rather than a video 
or video frames. In the context of this paper, wide image can be referred as a panorama image too. In 
the picture, every fruit is visible only once, and there are no boundaries that complicate the counting 
process. 
 
3.1.2. Data annotation 
To select a proper annotation tool, the following requirements for the annotation tool were defined 
based on the obtained data by the 360-degree video and its processing: 
• 
the ability to process high image resolution of the composed images (image size over 350MB 
and 100 000 pixels wide), 
• 
the tool’s stability for dealing with the high frequency of tomato fruit occurrence in images, 
• 
the possibility to annotate tomato fruits with polygons (to be used both for object detection 
and instance segmentation models), 
• 
dividing the annotation task between multiple persons (working on different platforms). 
The multi-platform desktop annotation tool LabelMe [20] was selected as the annotation software 
considering all those factors. After completing the initial annotation process (by multiple persons), the 

segmentation masks were cross-validated by leading person of the group of annotators. In the end, 
the annotations were exported to COCO format. 
 
3.2. Dataset preparation 
This section describes the dataset preparation required for model training. The dataset is available on 
demand. The composed panorama images are 2448 pixels high and even 100 000 pixels wide. To 
process such sized images at one pass far exceeds the ability of available hardware. Concurrently, the 
image cannot be downsampled because the tomato fruit objects are tiny and would not be 
distinguishable in lower resolution. To overcome this issue, the images are sliced into several smaller 
patches, which are evaluated separately by the model. The model predictions are then stitched 
together to form the final output. The Section 3.4 describes the stitching process in detail. 
The patch size was selected according to the used hardware and pre-trained model (described in 
Section 3.3) to be 1333 X 735 pixels. We tested three different settings: 
1. Slice the patches of the size 2448 X 4078 pixels and downsample them (approximately 9 times 
to match the desired image size 1333 X 735 pixels) before model processing. This way, the 
image slices encapture the entire image height, and the patches are created only along a 
horizontal axis. Therefore, the model can see the whole tomato plant in one patch, but the 
tomato fruits’ resolution is significantly reduced. e refer to this settings as low resolution. 
2. Slice the patches of the size 1469 X 2448 pixels and downsample them (approximately 4 times 
to match the desired image size 1333 X 735 pixels) before model processing. This settings 
should allow the model to see the greater context while keeping the objects big enough to be 
detected. e refer to this settings as medium resolution. 
3. Slice the patches of the size 1333 X 735 pixels and allow the model to process the image in 
original resolution at the cost of losing the greater context of the image. We refer to this 
settings as high resolution. 
While the computation speed is not our primary concern, please note that the prediction time grows 
linearly with the number of patches cut from the input image. Therefore, processing an input image in 
the low-resolution settings is approximately 13 times quicker than in the high-resolution settings. 
Please also note the fact that all the objects in our dataset are small or medium size according to the 
standard COCO detection cat-egorization.1 The mean object size corresponds to a square of size 42 
pixels. 
 
3.2.1. Data splitting 
The gathered image data were divided into training, validation, and test split. There are 50 gathered 
images: training split contains 35 of them, validation split has 7, and the last 8 are in the test set. 
The training and the validation sets were cut beforehand. Training and evaluation within the training 
process were made on the cuts, not the whole image. The number of images in the training and the 
validation set after slicing were 95+20, 311+67, and 1240+264 for low, medium, and high-resolution 
settings, respectively. 
1 The COCO detection challenge (https://cocodataset.org/) divides the object into three categories according to the bbox size: 
small < 32 X 32 pixels, medium > 32 X 32 pixels and < 96 X 96 pixels and large > 96 X 96 pixels. 

The original panorama images from the validation set were used to assess the best post-processing 
parameters. e performed an extensive study to choose the best model confidence threshold, the 
postprocessing algorithm, the match metric, and its threshold value. The results are presented in 
Section 4.2. Finally, the test set results were also assessed in the original panorama image to judge the 
methodology performance on unseen data. 
 
3.3. Model and training settings 
A Faster R-CNN model [21] with a ResNet-50 backbone [22] was utilized in the experiments. The model 
was initialized with weights trained on the COCO dataset and modified for a single class present in our 
dataset. The model used Cross-Entropy loss for class optimization and L1 loss (Least Absolute 
Deviations) for bounding box optimization. 
The model had been trained for twenty epochs, considering one epoch as a single pass through all 
training data. SGD (Stochastic gradient descent) with a learning rate of 0.02, momentum 0.9, and 
weight decay of 0.0001 were utilized to optimize the model weights. On epochs 16 and 19, we lowered 
the learning rate ten times. 
We trained on the Titan XP graphic card with a batch size two. Before feeding into a model, images 
were always resized to image scale 1333 X 800 pixels and normalized with mean and standard 
deviation values available from the original COCO dataset. The random flip augmentation with the 0.5 
probability was utilized to increase the training data variability and help to prevent overfitting. 
 
3.4. Image stitching 
The main target of this work is the localization and counting of all tomatoes present in the big 
panorama picture produced from the 360-degree video. However, the model process only the cut 
patches; hence, the individual outputs need to be stitched back together in the next step. The patches 
overlap by a 0.2 ratio of their size to minimize the risk of missing the object cut off on the border. 
Several possible strategies exist to merge or suppress multiple predictions in neighboring patches. 
Generally speaking, the process has two main parameters: the match metrics and the post-processing 
algorithm. 
The match metrics determine the candidate detections for merg-ing/suppression. The value of the 
match metrics threshold is crucial; the higher value enables only more similar predictions to be 
merged. The post-processing algorithm determines the order in which the candidate detections are 
processed and how the final detection instance is constructed. 
We tested two different match metrics: 
1. Intersection over union (IoU) is a term used to describe the extent of overlap of two bounding 
boxes. The greater the region of overlap, the greater the IoU. The metric is defined as: 
 
2. 
Intersection over a smaller area (IOS) is very similar to the IoU metric; only the area of the 
intersection is divided by the area of the smaller of the two boxes: 

 
We experimented with those variants of the post-processing algorithms: 
1. Greedy non-maximum supression (NMS), 
2. Non-maximum merging (NMM), 
3. Greedy non-maximum merging (GREEDYNMM). 
Each of the post-processing algorithms is described in one of the corresponding Section 3.4.1, 3.4.2, 
3.4.3 below. Section 4.2 then shows the influence of the parameters mentioned above on the final 
output. 
 
3.4.1. Greedy non-maximum suppression (NMS) 
We employ only the greedy variant of non-maximum suppression because it is the standard in object 
detection. The algorithm chooses the predictions with the maximum confidence and suppresses all the 
other predictions overlapping with the selected predictions greater than a threshold of the match 
metrics. 
In the beginning, we got a list P of prediction bounding boxes (bboxes) coordinates and the 
corresponding predicted confidence score of the model. e also got the overlap match metrics 
threshold. The algorithm proceeds as follows: 
Step 1:. Select the prediction S with the highest confidence score, remove it from P, and add it to the 
final prediction list keep, which is initially empty. 
Step 2:. Compare the prediction S with all the predictions present in P. Calculate the overlap of this 
prediction S with every other prediction in P, using the IoU or IOS metrics. If the overlap exceeds the 
match metrics threshold for any prediction T present in P, remove prediction T from P. 
Step 3:. Repeat the process until there are still predictions left in P, then return the list containing the 
filtered predictions. 
As we can observe from the algorithm above, the whole filtering process depends on the match metrics 
threshold value. Therefore, a suitable threshold value selection is vital for the final performance. 
Although the NMS is one of the commonly adopted algorithms, it has several drawbacks. It is not ideal 
for object clusters because it leads to a misdetection if an object lies within the predefined overlap 
threshold. Several other algorithms try to fix the NMS's weaknesses. 
 
3.4.2. Non-maximum merging (NMM) 
From the nature of our problem: splitting the image, predicting the patches, and then stitching the 
resulting predictions; It is not unusual that the bounding boxes contain the cutoff objects. In this 
scenario, the NMS can only choose the best cut of the object, dumping the others. The non-maximum 
merging algorithm targets to solve this problem. It takes traditional NMS as the first step and matches 
all the detected boxes between themselves. Instead of keeping only the box with the higher confidence 
threshold and throwing away all the overlapping boxes, it merges them to form the new output box. 
 

3.4.3. Greedy non-maximum merging (GREEDYNMM) 
The greedy variant of non-maximum merging sorts the bboxes according to their confidence and 
removes the processed boxes from the list, similar to greedy non-maximum suppression, making the 
algorithm more efficient and effective. 
The implementation details of all described post-processing algorithms can be found in the open-
source library SAHI: Slicing Aided Hyper Inference [23], which we utilized in our execution. It is a 
lightweight vision library for performing large-scale object detection and instance segmentation. 
 
3.5. Validation metrics 
We utilize several metrics to interpret and understand the outputs correctly. e offer their definitions 
in Sections 3.5.1 and 3.5.2 below. 
 
3.5.1. Metrics operating with the confusion matrix values 
Thanks to the simplicity of one class, we can easily calculate the confusion matrix (sometimes named 
as error matrix) to analyze the model performance in greater detail. Confusion matrix in the context 
of object detection compares the results of the classifier under test with trusted external judgments 
(dataset ground truth) using the terms true positives (TP), true negatives (TN), false positives (FP), and 
false negatives (FN). The terms positive and negative refer to the classifier's prediction, and the terms 
true and false refer to whether that prediction corresponds to the ground truth. 
There are several metrics associated with the confusion matrix from which we use the following ones: 
 
where numGT and numDet refers to the number of the ground true and detected objects, respectively. 
The precision or positive predictive value gives the percentage of true positive samples from all the 
samples returned by the model. The recall value, sometimes named as sensitivity or true positive rate, 
informs us about the percentage of the objects correctly retrieved by the model from all the objects 
present. The F1 score is the harmonic mean of precision and recall. False discovery rate gives the 
fraction of incorrectly detected objects, while the false negative rate gives the fraction of objects left 
out by the model. 
The authors of the recent review dealing with the fruit detection and counting [24] have made a 
recommendation for the use of F1 score as an overall performance measure, allowing models and 
methods to be compared and benchmarked with a single metric. 

Aside from assessing the values stated above, we use the precision-recall curve as a diagnostic tool to 
judge model performance. Precision-Recall curve summarizes the trade-off between the true positive 
rate and the positive predictive value for a model using different probability thresholds. A high area 
under the curve represents both high recall and high precision, where high precision relates to a low 
false-positive rate, and high recall relates to a low false-negative rate. An average precision metrics 
described in the following section calculates just that area under a precision-recall curve, although the 
precise calculation methodology may differ. 
 
3.5.2. Object detection evaluation according to COCO challenge 
We also conducted the object detection evaluation according to COCO challenge2 [25] because those 
are the main metrics currently used in research papers dealing with object detection. A 101-point 
interpolated mean average precision (AP) definition is used in the evaluation of this challenge. Its 
primary metric is then an AP averaged over multiple intersection over union (IoU) values; specifically, 
it uses 10 IoU thresholds ranging from 0.5 to 0.95 with step 0.05. This metric emphasizes the precision 
of the bbox localization. Please refer to the original challenge evaluation for the details about these 
metrics. 
In addition to the calculation of the AP values, we also provide a detailed breakdown of false positives 
in Derek’s PR curve inspired by [26]. This plot is a series of precision-recall curves where each PR curve 
is guaranteed to be strictly higher than the previous as the evaluation setting becomes more 
permissive. The curves are as follows:  
• C75: AP at IoU=0.75 (AP at strict IoU), area under curve corresponds to AP at IoU=0.75 metric. 
• C50: AP at IoU=0.50 (AP at PASCAL IoU), area under curve corresponds to AP at IoU=0.50 metric. 
• Loc: AP at IoU=0.10 (localization errors ignored, but not duplicate detections). All remaining settings 
use IoU=0.1. 
• Sim: AP after supercategory false positives are removed. Specifically, any matches to objects with a 
different class label but that belong to the same supercategory do not count as either a FP (or a TP). 
Sim is computed by setting all objects in the same supercategory to have the same class label as the 
class in question and setting their ignore flag to 1. Note that when we use a single category, Sim result 
is identical to Loc. 
• Oth: AP after all class confusions are removed. Like the Sim, except now if a detection matches any 
other object, it is no longer a FP (or a TP). Oth is computed by setting all other objects to have the same 
class label as the class in question and setting their ignore flag to 1. Note that when we use a single 
category, Oth result is identical to Loc. 
• BG: AP after all background (and class confusion) FP samples are removed. BG is a step function for 
a single category that is 1 until max recall is reached then drops to 0 (the curve is smoother after 
averaging across categories). 
• FN: PR after all remaining errors are removed (trivially AP=1). 
 
 
2 The coco detection challenge evaluation is described here: https:// cocodataset.org/#detection-eval 

4. Results 
The results section is divided into three subsections. The first Section 4.1 deals with the validation and 
test set results evaluated on the cut images. The second one 4.2 shows the extensive analysis of the 
postprocessing parameters needed in the stitching procedure and evaluates it on the validation split 
data. The last Section 4.3 shows the outputs of the whole proposed methodology on the unseen data 
from the test set split. 
 
   4.1. Results before stitching 
In this section, the training process and the preliminary results of the model are described. Fig. 1 
illustrates how the loss value and results of the validation average precision evolve during the training. 
As an example, the medium resolution set-up was selected since the other resolutions performed in a 
similar way. 
Table 1 presents average precision and recall values retrieved on the cut images of the test set (before 
stitching). e compare the results for all three image resolution set-ups (for more information about the 
patch sizes, refer to Section 3.2). e can see that both medium and high-resolution set-ups give 
promising results. On the other hand, the low-resolution plainly loses too many details by the image 
downsampling. Consequently, the smaller objects are not detected; both the average precision and 
the average recall for small objects were basically equal to zero. The high-resolution set-up shows 
slightly better performance than a medium resolution. However, there is a higher risk of miss detection 
on the patches boundaries, and the model needs to process five times more patches which enlarges 
the processing time. Therefore the medium resolution setting is used in our following post-processing 
parameter analysis. 
 
  4.2. Post-processing parameters analysis 
This section deals with the analysis of post-processing parameters. These parameters determine the 
stitching process and, therefore, significantly impact the quality of the final output.  
 
 
Fig. 1. Loss value and validation average precision development during the training process with the medium resolution set-
up. 

It is probably closely dependent on the dataset. e tested all combinations of the values listed below to 
see the parameters’ influence on the output performance and discover the best settings for our 
application. 
 
Table 1 COCO challenge style average precision results on cut images from test set (before stitching). 
 
• model confidence thresholds: 
- 
(0, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, 0.99), 
• match metrics: 
- 
intersection over union (IoU), 
- 
intersection over a smaller area (IOS), 
• match metrics thresholds: 
- 
(0.3, 0.5, 0.7, 0.9), 
• post-processing algorithms: 
- 
greedy non-maximum suppression (NMS), 
- 
non-maximum merging (NMM), 
- 
greedy non-maximum merging (GREEDYNMM). 
 
For more information about the individual parameters, refer to Section 3.4. The analysis was 
conducted on the images from the validation split, using the medium resolution set-up. 
Fig. 2 shows the precision-recall curve for each combination of post-processing parameters. To 
improve the readability, we clipped both axes to (0.4,1), displayed the results for each metric in a single 
graph, and then compared just the best solution for each of the metrics in the last graph. As we can 
see, the best match metrics and match threshold were interestingly the same for all the post-
processing algorithms, i.e., IOS and 0.5 threshold value. The best results achieved by the three post-
processing algorithms: NMS, NMM, and greedy NMM, are compared in a bottom-right graph of Fig. 2. 
e can see that both the non-maximum merging algorithms surpass the non-maximum suppression one. 
In our consequent analysis, we use the combination of the greedy NMM algorithm with the 0.5 
threshold of the IOS match metric. 
The bar plots in Fig. 3 demonstrate the model performance depending on the applied model 
confidence threshold. The smallest error was obtained while using the 0.4 confidence threshold. This 
threshold value also corresponds to the point where the precision value slightly surpasses the recall 
value. Thus we have chosen it for our final solution. 

We applied the above-chosen post-processing parameters to evaluate all three resolution settings. 
Table 2 summarize validation results. 
 
Table 2 Validation results for each patch resolution settings. 
*time needed for slicing, patches inference, and post-processing of one image of size 2448 x 10000 pixels, measured on 
GeForce GTX 1080 Ti GPU and AMD Ryzen 7 2700 Eight-Core Processor. 
 
As in the preliminary results before the stitching, the low-resolution setting is clearly the poorest. On 
the other hand, the medium and the high-resolution setting still show very similar performance. 
However, considering the computation demand and the F1-score as the main metric, the medium-
resolution setting seems to be the better choice. 
The final post-processing parameters were applied in time analysis, which is presented in Table 2. The 
timing was assessed as a mean from 50 runs over the same image of size 2448 x 10000 pixels. We 
excluded the time needed for model loading because it is constant for all settings. We can see that the 
slicing and post-processing times are similar in all cases. The number of patches implies the processing 
time, although the dependence is less than linear thanks to the GPU implementation and 
parallelization. 
As a recap of the post-processing parameters analysis, the following set-up was chosen for our final 
evaluation: 
• patch size: medium-resolution, 
• model confidence threshold: 0.4, 
• match metric: intersection over a smaller area, 
• match metric threshold: 0.5, 
• post-processing algorithm: greedy non-maximum merging. 
 

  4.3. Final test set results 
Table 3 shows the final results on the test set split computed by the model with post-processing chosen 
in post-processing parameter analysis, i.e., medium resolution patches, 0.4 model confidence 
threshold, The absolute difference between the number of ground truth and detected objects is 
negligible, accounting only for 2.32% of the ground-true tomatoes. 
 
Fig. 2. Precision-recall curves for all combinations of the post-processing parameters, the bottom-right graph shows the 
comparison of the best precision-recall curve for each of the post-processing algorithms. 
 
Table 3 Test results for the final proposed methodology settings: medium resolution cuts, 0.4 model confidence threshold, 
0.5 IOS match metrics threshold, and greedy NMM post-processing algorithm. 
 
The absolute difference between the number of ground truth and detected objects is negligible, 
accounting only for 2.32% of the ground-true tomatoes. However, this was caused by diminishing the 

false positive and false negative objects. The false-discovery and falsenegative rates are 17.89% and 
15.56%, respectively. The precision and recall values 82.12% and 84.08% correspond to that. At last, 
the final F1 score value of our methodology is 83.09%. We can observe that the validation and the test 
set performance is comparable or even slightly better, indicating the model's ability to generalize. 
COCO challenge style precision-recall curve and bar plot, which divides the results into the categories 
according to the object size (viz Section 3.2), are in Fig. 4. The area under each curve is shown in 
brackets in the legend. Our Faster R-CNN detector achieved the following precision values: the overall 
AP at IoU>= 0.75 is 0.396, and liberating the localization to use IoU>= 0.5 would increase AP to 0.811. 
Since we have only one class, there are no class confusions (both within supercategory and across 
supercategories). Removing background false positives would boost performance to 0.871 AP, and the 
rest of the errors are missing detections (although presumably, if more detections were added, this 
would also add lots of false positives). 
In summary, our model’s errors are dominated by imperfect localization and background confusion. 
On top of that, the bar plot shows the drop in AP for small objects compared to medium objects (large 
objects are not present in the dataset at all). Fortunately, since the mediumsized objects dominate the 
dataset, it does not significantly affect the overall performance. 
 
4.4. Visual analysis of test set results 
Fig. 5 displays cut-out examples of tomato fruit detection showing both correctly detected objects and 
also some errors we deal with in our dataset. The leaf occlusion is one of problems. The fruits are 
sometimes entirely hidden from the view by the leaves. This error is not even included in our 
performance study since those tomatoes would not be annotated in the ground-truth image either. 
Sometimes the occlusion is partial, and we can assume the fruit presence but cannot be sure, and 
therefore the tomato cannot be included in the annotations. Such an example is in Fig. 5(c). 
Interestingly enough, the model predicted the fruit presence although with lower confidence. 
Especially tiny green tomatoes present in high parts of a plant are very challenging to detect. It can be 
easily confused for leaves and vice versa. An example of such a misdetection is in Fig. 5(d). On the 
other hand, those fruits will need substantial time to grow and ripe before they can be harvested and 
therefore they are not the leading interest for our actual application. Nevertheless, it is one of the 
most common errors of our model. Therefore, we would seek to dissolve it in our future work by 
modifying the model itself, changing a loss function to accommodate training towards small object 
detection, or modifying the capturing methodology not to include the very high parts of the plant. 
Another trouble with our dataset is that tomatoes/whole plants from a rear plant row are sometimes 
visible and mistakenly detected. This was the most common error that needed repair in the annotation 
process’s second (control) stage. So it can be very misleading even for a human annotator. An example 
of such false detection is depicted in Fig. 5(e). Although the capturing process was designed to 
minimize this problem, it is still present and challenging. One possible approach tosolve this problem 
would be foreground segmentation and removal of the background objects before the detection. 
 
 
 
 

 
Fig. 3. Bar plots representing the performance for different model confidence threshold values, top: Precision (P) and Recall 
(R) values; bottom: Number of ground truth objects (numGT), detected objects (numDT), and the difference between them 
(error). 
 
Fig. 4. COCO challenge style precision-recall curve (left side) and bar plot (right side) on the test set data for the final proposed 
methodology settings: medium resolution cuts, 0.4 model confidence threshold, 0.5 IOS match metrics threshold, and greedy 
NMM post-processing algorithm. For more information about COCO evaluation see Section 3.5.2. 
 

Finally, some image defects might be caused by an uneven speed of the robot during the capturing 
process; for reference, see Fig. 5(f). Our study shows that while the deep convolutional neural network 
is able to deal with a certain level of distortion, there are limitations that should be controlled during 
the capturing process to obtain satisfactory results. Those limits will be studied concretely and 
employed in the subsequent development. 
 
Fig. 5. An example of tomato fruit detection output, ground truth boxes are marked blue, detected boxes are labeled 
orange (or red) with a corresponding model confidence value; (a) shows a part of the whole tomato row panorama image 
with only model detections, (b) and (c) are correct detections, (d) leaf mistaken for fruit, (e) omission of small green 
tomatoes, (f) detection of tomatoes from a rear row, (g) impaired detection due to poor image quality. 
 
5. Discussion 
Our methodology for counting tomatoes shows relatively high precision on the test dataset. This 
section compares our solution with the recent tomato detection method's performance. Following the 
recommendation of [24], the F1-score of the test set detection in each experiment was calculated for 
comparison. The method and the best result of each paper are listed in Table 4. Please bear in mind 

that each paper uses a different dataset, and therefore, the comparison is just for a general idea of the 
method's performance. 
Authors of YOLO-tomato detector [10] modify the well-known YOLOv3 architecture for object 
detection by adding the dense connections between the layers for feature extraction and by applying 
the circular bounding box instead of the classic rectangle. YOLO-tomato model achieves an excellent 
93.91% F1-score, although the dataset used in this study consists of single images containing the 
tomato or tomato cluster captured manually. Moreover, this research only focused on detection and 
did not address the possibility of counting the objects in a greater context, which is an entirely different 
matter. Interestingly, in their stated comparison of different model architectures, the Faster R-CNN 
architecture (the one we apply in our study) achieves the second-best results, losing only 1.58% on F1-
score. Those results indicate that choosing the Faster R-CNN network architecture in our study of the 
overall methodology for processing the whole tomato row images was a good option. 
 
Table 4 The recent tomato detection method's performance comparison. Please note that the methods were evaluated on 
different datasets. 
 
An approach most similar to our methodology was presented in [11]. The authors manually capture 
the whole row of plants in a greenhouse. Still, the counting evaluation is unfortunately done only on 
single images before stitching. Just images from one example row are stitched to create a wide 
photograph to provide an example of yield mapping. Authors of [11] use a simple approach of merging 
the border boxes according to their distance and shape similarity; they do not provide any study of 
post-processing parameters nor a very detailed description of the stated merging method. hile both 
our and [11] paper uses the Faster R-CNN model, we use Resnet-50 while Resnet-101 is utilized in [11]. 
Aside from the fact that [11] does not evaluate the results on stitched images, our methodology deals 
with noisier data and applies shallower model architecture, yet it practically equalizes the final 
performance, losing only 0.56% on F1-score. Some performance gain is probably acquired during the 
post-processing phase of stitching, which supports the extended analysis presented in our work.ý 
Finally, the paper [13] presents the same goal as our work, delivering an approach for detection, 
counting, and maturity assessment of cherry tomatoes using multi-spectral images and machine 
learning techniques. Authors train deep CNN networks on images captured in a tomato greenhouse. 
From a comparison of YOLOv3 and FasterRCNN architecture, the authors choose the FasterRCNN 
model for further analysis. Consequently, they use those models in combination with the DeepSORT 
algorithm to track the tomatoes in a video. Unfortunately, the results of final counts in the analyzed 
growth are not precisely stated nor commented on. The closest metric to the F1-score recommended 
for fruit counting evaluation is the IDF1-score, which estimates the total number of unique objects 
correctly identified in a scene. The value of the IDF1-score achieved is 51.4%. The results show that 

detecting and tracking objects in complicated and obscured scenes of tomato growth is very 
challenging. This favors our approach, which eliminates the tricky part of object tracking altogether. 
 
6. Conclusion 
This study presents a fully automated process of tomato fruit detection and counting. e utilize a unique 
data collection methodology employing the 360-degree camera to capture the whole tomato plant 
row in one pass. Consequently, a wide image representing the whole row is produced from a video. 
This image is used for tomato fruit counting, overcoming the need for object tracking or other 
processes to count the objects in a sequence of images/video frames. 
On the other hand, the extra-wide image size exceeds any reasonable limits for processing at one pass, 
which we solve by applying the slicing-aided inference. We present an extensive examination of the 
post-processing parameters needed to stitch the predictions correctly. The results are visualized in 
Figs. 2 and 3 and create the core of this study. 
The final test set results achieve the F1-score value of 83.09%, which is an acceptable outcome 
considering both the dataset's difficulty and the actual need for predictions in a greenhouse. Still, while 
we prove the suitability of our concept in this study, our future work will consider several 
improvements from different network architectures to enlarging/repairing the dataset. 
Aside from the tomato counting, the output of the proposed methodology can be utilized to estimate 
the fruit's location and size. Therefore this method shows great potential for ripeness and yield 
prediction and might be successfully applied in robotic farming. 
 
References 
[1] K. Fuglie, The growing role of the private sector in agricultural research and development world-
wide, Glob. Food Secur. 10 (2016) 29-38, http://dx.doi.org/ 10.1016/j.gfs.2016.07.005, URL 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/ pii/S2211912416300190. 
[2] T. Short, C. Draper, M. Donnell, Web-based decision support system for hydroponic vegetable 
production, in: International Conference on Sustainable Greenhouse Systems-Greensys2004 691, 
2004, pp. 867-870. 
[3] R. Shamshiri, Measuring optimality degrees of microclimate parameters in protected cultivation of 
tomato 
under 
tropical 
climate 
condition, 
Measurement 
106 
(2017) 
236-244, 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.measurement.2017.02.028, 
URL 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0263224117301276. 
[4] Y. Zhao, L. Gong, Y. Huang, C. Liu, A review of key techniques of vision-based control for harvesting 
robot, Comput. Electron. Agric. 127 (2016) 311-323, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2016.06.022, 
URL https://www. sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168169916304227. 
[5] A. Gongal, S. Amatya, M. Karkee, Q. Zhang, K. Lewis, Sensors and systems for fruit detection and 
localization: A review, Comput. Electron. Agric. 116 (2015) 8-19. 
[6] X. Wei, K. Jia, J. Lan, Y. Li, Y. Zeng, C. Wang, Automatic method of fruit object extraction under 
complex agricultural background for vision system of fruit picking robot, Optik 125 (19) (2014) 5684-
5689. 

[7] S. Wan, S. Goudos, Faster R-CNN for multi-class fruit detection using a robotic vision system, 
Comput. Netw. 168 (2020) 107036, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/ j.comnet.2019.107036, URL 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/ S1389128619306978. 
[8] H. Mure§an, M. Oltean, Fruit recognition from images using deep learning, 2017, arXiv preprint 
arXiv:1712.00580. 
[9] Z.-F. Xu, R.-S. Jia, Y.-B. Liu, C.-Y. Zhao, H.-M. Sun, Fast method of detecting tomatoes in a complex 
scene 
for 
picking 
robots, 
IEEE 
Access 
8 
(2020) 
55289-55299, 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2020.2981823. 
[10] G. Liu, J.C. Nouaze, P.L. Touko Mbouembe, J.H. Kim, YOLO-tomato: A robust algorithm for tomato 
detection based on YOLOv3, Sensors 20 (7) (2020) http: //dx.doi.org/10.3390/s20072145, URL 
https://www.mdpi.com/1424-8220/20/ 7/2145. 
[11] Y. Mu, T.-S. Chen, S. Ninomiya, W. Guo, Intact detection of highly occluded immature tomatoes 
on 
plants 
using 
deep 
learning 
techniques, 
Sensors 
20 
(10) 
(2020) 
http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/s20102984, URL https://www.mdpi.com/ 1424-8220/20/10/2984. 
[12] A.I.B. Parico, T. Ahamed, Real time pear fruit detection and counting using YOLOv4 models and 
deep 
SORT, 
Sensors 
21 
(14) 
(2021) 
http://dx.doi.org/10. 
3390/s21144803, 
URL 
https://www.mdpi.com/1424-8220/21/14/4803. 
[13] I.-T. Chen, H.-Y. Lin, Detection, counting and maturity assessment of cherry tomatoes using multi-
spectral images and machine learning techniques, in: VISIGRAPP, 5: VISAPP, 2020, pp. 759-766. 
[14] A. Rosenfeld, M. Thurston, Edge and curve detection for visual scene analysis, IEEE Trans. Comput. 
100 (5) (1971) 562-569. 
[15] N. Dalal, B. Triggs, Histograms of oriented gradients for human detection, in: 2005 IEEE Computer 
Society Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Vol. 1, CVPR’05, IEEE, 2005, pp. 886-
893. 
[16] P. Viola, M. Jones, Rapid object detection using a boosted cascade of simple features, in: 
Proceedings of the 2001 IEEE Computer Society Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern 
Recognition, Vol. 1, CVPR 2001, IEEE, 2001, p. I. 
[17] S. Ren, K. He, R. Girshick, J. Sun, Faster R-CNN: towards real-time object detection with region 
proposal networks, IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell. 39 (6) (2016) 1137-1149. 
[18] N. Bodla, B. Singh, R. Chellappa, L.S. Davis, Soft-NMS — Improving object detection with one line 
of code, in: 2017 IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision, ICCV, 2017, pp. 5562-5570, 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ICCV. 2017.593. 
[19] J. Chu, Y. Zhang, S. Li, L. Leng, J. Miao, Syncretic-NMS: A merging nonmaximum suppression 
algorithm 
for 
instance 
segmentation, 
IEEE 
Access 
8 
(2020) 
114705-114714, 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3003917. 
[20] B.C. Russell, A. Torralba, K.P. Murphy, W.T. Freeman, LabelMe: a database and web-based tool for 
image annotation, Int. J. Comput. Vis. 77 (1-3) (2008) 157-173. 
[21] S. Ren, K. He, R. Girshick, J. Sun, Faster R-CNN: Towards real-time object detection with region 
proposal networks, IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell. 39 (6) (2017) 1137-1149. 
 

[22] K. He, X. Zhang, S. Ren, J. Sun, Deep residual learning for image recognition, in: 2016 IEEE 
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, CVPR, IEEE, Las Vegas, NV, USA, 2016, pp. 
770-778, 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/CVPR. 
2016.90, 
URL 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7780459/. 
[23] F.C. Akyon, C. Cengiz, S.O. Altinuc, D. Cavusoglu, K. Sahin, O. Eryuksel, SAHI: A Lightweight Vision 
Library for Performing Large Scale Object Detection and Instance Segmentation, Zenodo, 2021, 
http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo. 5718950. 
[24] A. Koirala, K.B. Walsh, Z. Wang, C. McCarthy, Deep learning - method overview and review of use 
for fruit detection and yield estimation, Comput. Electron. Agric. 162 (2019) 219-234, 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2019.04.017, 
URL 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168169919301164. 
[25] T.-Y. Lin, M. Maire, S. Belongie, J. Hays, P. Perona, D. Ramanan, P. Dollár, C.L. Zitnick, Microsoft 
coco: Common objects in context, in: European Conference on Computer Vision, Springer, 2014, pp. 
740-755. 
[26] D. Hoiem, Y. Chodpathumwan, Q. Dai, Diagnosing error in object detectors, in: European 
Conference on Computer Vision, Springer, 2012, pp. 340-353. 
 
