Citation: Uddin, M.K.; Bhuiyan, A.;
Bappee, F.K.; Islam, M.M.; Hasan, M.
Person Re-Identiﬁcation with RGB–D
and RGB–IR Sensors: A
Comprehensive Survey. Sensors 2023,
23, 1504. https://doi.org/10.3390/
s23031504
Academic Editor: Kuo-Liang Chung
Received: 1 December 2022
Revised: 14 January 2023
Accepted: 21 January 2023
Published: 29 January 2023
Copyright:
© 2023 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed
under
the
terms
and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
sensors
Review
Person Re-Identiﬁcation with RGB–D and RGB–IR Sensors:
A Comprehensive Survey
Md Kamal Uddin 1,2,*
, Amran Bhuiyan 3, Fateha Khanam Bappee 2, Md Matiqul Islam 1,4
and Mahmudul Hasan 1,5,*
1
Interactive Systems Lab, Graduate School of Science and Engineering, Saitama University,
Saitama 338-8570, Japan
2
Department of Computer Science and Telecommunication Engineering, Noakhali Science
and Technology University, Noakhali 3814, Bangladesh
3
Information Retrieval and Knowledge Management Research Laboratory, York University,
Toronto, ON M3J 1P3, Canada
4
Department of Information and Communication Engineering, University of Rajshahi,
Rajshahi 6205, Bangladesh
5
Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Comilla University, Kotbari 3506, Bangladesh
*
Correspondence: kamal@cv.ics.saitama-u.ac.jp (M.K.U.); hasan@hci.ics.saitama-u.ac.jp (M.H.)
Abstract: Learning about appearance embedding is of great importance for a variety of different
computer-vision applications, which has prompted a surge in person re-identiﬁcation (Re-ID) pa-
pers. The aim of these papers has been to identify an individual over a set of non-overlapping
cameras. Despite recent advances in RGB–RGB Re-ID approaches with deep-learning architectures,
the approach fails to consistently work well when there are low resolutions in dark conditions. The
introduction of different sensors (i.e., RGB–D and infrared (IR)) enables the capture of appearances
even in dark conditions. Recently, a lot of research has been dedicated to addressing the issue of
ﬁnding appearance embedding in dark conditions using different advanced camera sensors. In this
paper, we give a comprehensive overview of existing Re-ID approaches that utilize the additional
information from different sensor-based methods to address the constraints faced by RGB camera-
based person Re-ID systems. Although there are a number of survey papers that consider either the
RGB–RGB or Visible-IR scenarios, there are none that consider both RGB–D and RGB–IR. In this
paper, we present a detailed taxonomy of the existing approaches along with the existing RGB–D and
RGB–IR person Re-ID datasets. Then, we summarize the performance of state-of-the-art methods on
several representative RGB–D and RGB–IR datasets. Finally, future directions and current issues are
considered for improving the different sensor-based person Re-ID systems.
Keywords:
re-identiﬁcation; video surveillance; multi-modal; cross-modal; RGB–D sensors;
RGB–IR sensors
1. Introduction
Person re-identiﬁcation (Re-ID) has recently gained signiﬁcant attention among the
computer-vision communities and industry. It plays a crucial role in intelligent surveillance
systems and has widespread applications for processes including forensic searching; multi-
camera tracking, accessing, and controlling; and sports analysis. Person Re-ID is still a
challenging task since the videos are recorded by non-overlapping cameras under different
environmental conditions, as shown in Figure 1.
In 2006, Gheissari et al. [1] ﬁrst introduced the concept of person re-identiﬁcation. This
ﬁeld of computer vision has experienced rapid development, and there has been extensive
research performed on this topic. Until now, Re-ID researchers have proposed many
outstanding approaches, and most of them are RGB appearance-based Re-ID methods.
Over the last few years, Re-ID research has shifted from RGB camera-based Re-ID to
Sensors 2023, 23, 1504. https://doi.org/10.3390/s23031504
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/sensors

Sensors 2023, 23, 1504
2 of 29
different sensor-based (e.g., depth (D) and infrared (IR) cameras) Re-ID as the demand
for surveillance systems has increased, especially those that monitor at night in extremely
low lighting or dark conditions. Therefore, we aim to provide a quick understanding
and overview of the Re-ID researchers who are interested in working with depth and
infrared sensors. There are several remarkable person Re-ID surveys that exist in the
literature [2–12]. However, these surveys mainly focus on and give insightful direction
on RGB camera-based person Re-ID approaches. Recently, Zheng et al. [13] published a
survey that focused only on RGB–IR sensor-based Re-ID methods.
Figure 1. Sample images showing the challenges related to camera variations and environmental
conditions in the Re-ID problem. (a) shows pose and viewpoint variations; (b) background clutter;
(c) partial occlusion; and (d) illumination variations. Images were taken from the public standard
datasets IAS-Lab [14], i-LIDS [15] and Market-1501 [16].
Even though the concept of Re-ID was introduced in 2006, Re-ID researchers initially
considered only RGB image-based methods; still, these methods are continuing to be used
to address challenging issues. In the meantime, modern RGB–D and infrared sensors have
been deployed for person Re-ID in 24-h (day and night) surveillance systems. In real-
world applications, RGB–D and RGB–IR Re-ID methods are challenging due to signiﬁcant
differences between the two modalities, such as RGB–IR cross-modality matching. In
2010, Jüngling et al. [17] ﬁrst proposed using an infrared sensor-based image for person
re-identiﬁcation, where they only considered IR–IR video matching rather than the RGB–IR
cross-modality one. To address the clothing-change problem for Re-ID, Barbosa et al. ﬁrst
used RGB–D sensors in 2012.
In past years, a lot of Re-ID methods have been proposed to address the constraints of
traditional RGB cameras, such as pose [18–20], viewpoint variations [21,22], occlusions [23–25],
illumination changes [26], background clutter [27–29], low image resolutions [30,31], and
scalability [32]. In some situations, when lighting conditions are extremely poor or dark, it
is almost impossible to continue surveillance via RGB cameras as they cannot capture sufﬁ-
cient information in dark environments. In such cases, Re-ID researchers have commonly
used modern RGB–D sensors (e.g., the Microsoft Kinect and Intel RealSense depth cameras)
and infrared cameras in video surveillance systems. As modern RGB–D sensors avail us
with different modalities such as illumination-invariant high-quality depth images, RGB
images, and skeleton information simultaneously, as shown in Figure 2, Re-ID researchers
have exploited this additional information from sensor-based methods by proposing differ-
ent approaches to overcome the challenges. Moreover, under normal lighting conditions,
they combined RGB and depth information to construct robust features for improving the
accuracy of re-identiﬁcation. While RGB–D cameras can only be used in indoor settings
and have distance limitations, infrared cameras have no such limitations and can capture
IR images at a wide range of distances in a dark environment.

Sensors 2023, 23, 1504
3 of 29
 
Figure 2. Sample images showing the RGB, depth, and skeleton information of an individual in the
RobotPKU RGBD-ID [33] dataset.
In this survey, we emphasize the RGB–D and IR sensor-based Re-ID methods in which
the query and gallery data come from different domains (i.e., RGB, Depth, Skeleton, and
IR). Generally, we divide the RGB–D and IR sensor-based Re-ID methods into three cate-
gories: multi-modal, cross-modal, and single-modal person Re-ID (see Figure 3). When
RGB data are combined with depth, IR, or skeleton information to improve the Re-ID’s
performance, it is called multi-modal person re-identiﬁcation. In many real-world scenar-
ios, when matching RGB with depth or IR modality is important—for example, in a video
surveillance system that must recognize individuals in poorly illuminated environments or
dark conditions—it is called cross-modal person re-identiﬁcation. When both the query
and gallery data come from the same domain (i.e., RGB–RGB, IR–IR, Depth–Depth), it is
called a single-modal Re-ID problem. All of these modality-aware, Re-ID works consist
of conventional methods [14,34–36] or deep-learning methods [37–39]. Because all the
previous surveys [2–12] mainly focus on RGB–RGB single-modality matching, we do not
include it in our survey.
Figure 3. General categories of RGB–D and IR sensor-based person re-identiﬁcation systems.

Sensors 2023, 23, 1504
4 of 29
In the Re-ID literature, publicly available RGB–D and IR sensor-based data-
sets [4,14,33,35,39–46] have been recorded for specific purposes because some Re-ID ap-
proaches use different domains combinedly to improve the performance of Re-ID [33–39,47,48]
while other approaches use cross-domain methods [49–53] in the Re-ID framework to
continue surveillance between daytime visible images and nighttime infrared images. Still,
some Re-ID methods consider only IR–IR [17,54] matching using the publicly available
datasets.
The main contributions of this work are summarized as follows:
•
First, we categorize the RGB–D and IR sensor-based person re-identiﬁcation methods
according to different modalities. This proposed categorization aims to help new
researchers gain a comprehensive and more profound understanding of depth and
infrared sensor-based person Re-ID.
•
We summarize the main contributions based on our categorization of person re-
identiﬁcation approaches.
•
We also summarize the performance of state-of-the-art methods on several representa-
tive RGB–D and IR datasets with detailed data descriptions.
•
Finally, we give several considerable points for future insights toward improving the
different sensor-based person Re-ID systems.
The remaining parts of this survey are organized as follows. In Section 2, we review
the multi-modal person re-identiﬁcation approaches, including RGB–depth, RGB–skeleton,
depth–skeleton, RGB–depth–skeleton, and RGB–depth–thermal. Section 3 presents cross-
modal person Re-ID approaches, where we review the RGB–depth, RGB–sketch, and
RGB–IR cross-modality matching methods and their performances. Existing IR–IR and
depth–depth single-modal person Re-ID methods are discussed in Section 4. In Section 5,
we give detailed descriptions of the existing RGB–D, RGB–sketch, and RGB–IR person
Re-ID datasets. Finally, conclusions and future directions are discussed in Section 6.
2. Multi-Modal Person Re-Identiﬁcation
Most of the existing Re-ID methods focus on matching individuals based on RGB ap-
pearance cues. After the arrival of modern RGB–D and infrared sensors, Re-ID researchers
took advantage of other modalities, such as depth and IR images, and skeleton information
to increase the accuracy of Re-ID. In the past few years, a signiﬁcant number of works have
been proposed to combine RGB appearance cues with depth and/or skeleton information
to extract more discriminative features [55,56]. Some works, for example [44], utilized RGB,
depth, and thermal information together to improve the performance of Re-ID. Depending
on the modalities used by the different Re-ID approaches, we divide the multi-modal
person re-identiﬁcation methods into ﬁve categories, depicted in Figure 4. In this section,
we overview all ﬁve categories of person re-identiﬁcation methods and their performances
on different benchmark datasets.
2.1. RGB–Depth Image-Based Person Re-ID
Several recent studies have emphasized improving the performance of Re-ID systems
using the additional information from RGB–D sensor-based methods. Some works [37,38]
combined RGB appearance features with illumination-invariant anthropometric features
from processed depth images. Apart from the above works, some Re-ID methods use
raw-depth and RGB images combinedly [40,42,47]. Moreover, in some approaches [48,57],
depth frames are used as body segmentation masks, which play an important role in
removing cluttered backgrounds from scenes. Most of the above RGB-depth image-based
Re-ID methods are considered deep-learning approaches with score-level or feature-level
fusion techniques. These approaches can generally be represented using a ﬂowchart, as
shown in Figure 5.

Sensors 2023, 23, 1504
5 of 29
Figure 4. Different multi-modal person re-identiﬁcation approaches (feature/score-level fusion),
where each approach uses different modalities. (a) RGB and depth modalities; (b) RGB and skele-
ton information; (c) depth and skeleton information; (d) RGB, depth, and skeleton information;
and (e) RGB, depth, and thermal images [44].
Figure 5. A ﬂowchart of the RGB–depth image-based Re-ID framework. (a) Score-level fusion and
(b) feature-level fusion techniques.

Sensors 2023, 23, 1504
6 of 29
In [37], Ren et al. proposed a multi-modal uniform deep-learning (MMUDL) method.
Using MMUDL, the authors ﬁrst processed each depth image into three channels; they
computed the value of the depth as the ﬁrst channel, the angle with the horizontal direction
of each point as the value of the second channel, and the height of each point as the third
channel. Then, they extracted an anthropometric feature vector by using a CNN and
extracted an appearance feature vector from an RGB image by using another CNN. Finally,
they combined both feature vectors in a fusion layer with a uniform latent variable that
contained three parts: the depth-speciﬁc part, the sharable part, and the RGB-speciﬁc part.
They then computed the distance between the uniform latent variables of two persons for
person re-identiﬁcation. The experiments were conducted using two widely used person
Re-ID datasets: RGBD-ID [58] and KinectREID [41]. A cumulative matching characteristic
(CMC) was used to evaluate the performance of the Re-ID. The experiments were repeated
10 times and used the average accuracy as the result. The RGBD-ID dataset contains four
acquisitions for each individual, and some individuals wore different clothes in different
acquisitions. First, the authors removed the individuals who wore different clothes and
conducted the experiment without them. It achieved a 100% rank-1 accuracy. When they
used the complete RGBD-ID dataset, the experiment achieved a 76.7% rank-1 accuracy.
However, when they experimented on the KinectREID dataset, a 97% rank-1 accuracy was
achieved. Later, Ren et al. [38] proposed a uniform and variational deep-learning (UVDL)
method. Using UVDL, the authors combined depth and appearance features by designing
a uniform and variational multi-modal auto-encoder at the top layer of their deep network.
This was designed to seek a uniform latent variable by projecting the variable onto a shared
space. They achieved a rank-1 accuracy of 99.4% with KinectREID and 76.7% with the
RGBD-ID dataset. Though the improvement in rank-1 accuracy for KinectREID was 2.4%,
the method failed to improve the results of the RGB-ID dataset.
Some approaches [40,47] use the CNN-based method to fuse local and global features
extracted from raw-depth and RGB images. In [40], Lejbolle et al. proposed a multi-modal
neural network that was trained to provide fused features using RGB and depth modalities.
The authors in [47] improved these methods by proposing a multi-modal attention network
(MAT) based on RGB and depth modalities, where they combined a CNN with an attention
module to extract local discriminative features and ﬁnally fused these local features with
globally extracted features. Both approaches tried to overcome some challenges, such as
changes in lighting between views, occlusion, and privacy issues, by installing RGB–D
cameras on top to capture data from an overhead view. Three RGB–D-based datasets—
DPI-T [39], TVPR [43], and OPR [40]—were used for overhead person Re-ID to evaluate
the performance of both methods. The results of both methods were presented using CMC
curves and their performance was compared using state-of-the-art methods. Lejbolle et al.
achieved rank-1 accuracies of 90.36%, 63.83%, and 45.63% for the DPI-T, TVPR, and OPR
datasets, respectively, in their ﬁrst approach. Later, they improved the performance of their
Re-ID using a multi-modal attention network. The MAT increased their rank-1 accuracies
by 2.01%, 19.15%, and 3.43% for the DPI-T, TVPR, and OPR datasets, respectively.
In [42], the authors proposed a method to fuse RGB and RGB–D image-based ranking
scores in a dissimilarity space for person re-identiﬁcation. They trained two models
using either RGB or RGB–D images and then computed dissimilarity scores between the
probe and gallery sets using feature embeddings extracted from each model. Finally, both
dissimilarity scores were fused in the dissimilarity space to obtain the ﬁnal recognition
accuracy between the probe and gallery sets. Although the computational cost is high,
this approach obtained superior accuracies on two publicly available datasets—RGBD-
ID [58] and RobotPKU RGBD-ID [33]—and their own dataset, SUCVL RGBD-ID [42]. They
achieved rank-1 accuracies of 93.33%, 82.05%, and 87.65% for RobotPKU, RGBD-ID, and
SUCVL, respectively. The performance of this method on the RGBD-ID dataset is lower
than other datasets because some people wore different clothes in different acquisitions,
making it more challenging to recognize people using non-overlapping cameras.

Sensors 2023, 23, 1504
7 of 29
The state-of-the-art approaches described above performed remarkably using RGB
and depth data; however, these approaches have some limitations, such as when they
follow a feature-level fusion strategy, which may lead to the deep-learning model being
overﬁtted in the fusion of heterogeneous features. Another limitation is that Re-ID systems
fail to train good models because depth sensors cannot capture depth frames properly due
to the operational range of Microsoft Kinect being between 0.8 to 4 m, which may cause
performance degradation.
2.2. RGB–Skeleton Image-Based Person Re-ID
Anthropometric measures from depth data are the geometrical features that can
describe a person. Anthropometric features are calculated from the joint points of the
skeleton body for each person. Although RGB appearance cues are widely used for person
Re-ID, these features are not reliable when illumination conditions are very poor. However,
color-invariant anthropometric features are reliable under such conditions. Recently, some
Re-ID researchers have used color-invariant anthropometric features by fusing them with
RGB appearance features to improve the accuracy of re-identiﬁcation [33,41,59]. A ﬂowchart
of the RGB–skeleton information-based Re-ID is shown in Figure 6.
Figure 6. A ﬂowchart of the RGB–skeleton information-based Re-ID framework.
Pala et al. [41] proposed a dissimilarity-based Re-ID framework for fusing anthropo-
metric features, which are extracted from 20 joint points of the skeleton body, with RGB
color-appearance features. This dissimilarity-based framework is an alternative to the
widely used score-level fusion technique. It used Multiple Component Dissimilarity (MCD)
descriptors to reduce the matching time among dissimilarity vectors, which are calculated
from different modalities (e.g., body parts). The authors chose three Multiple Part–Multiple
Component (MPMC) descriptors, including SDALF [60], eBiCov [61], and MCMimpl [62].
This method was tested on RGBD-ID and their own collected KinectREID datasets, and
the results were reported using the CMC curve. They achieved rank-1 recognition rates of
50.37% and 73.85% for the KinectREID and RGBD-ID datasets, respectively.

Sensors 2023, 23, 1504
8 of 29
In [33], the authors proposed an online person re-identiﬁcation framework where
they used appearance and skeleton information provided by RGB–D sensors. In this
work, they addressed the drawbacks of ofﬂine training approaches due to them not being
able to adapt to the changing environment. Instead of ofﬂine training, they used an
online metric model to update facial information. Then, the authors fused the appearance
and skeleton information using a novel feature funnel model (FFM). This approach was
validated by them conducting experiments on two publicly available datasets–BIWI RGBD-
ID [35] and IAS-Lab [14]—and on their acquired dataset RobotPKU RGBD-ID. Initially, the
authors trained the metric model using the RobotPKU dataset and tested it on the IAS-
Lab RGBD-ID dataset for both ofﬂine and online methods. However, the online method
achieved a high performance compared to the ofﬂine method. Their online feature funnel
model obtained 77.94% and 91.4% rank-1 accuracies for the RobotPKU and BIWI RGBD-ID
datasets, respectively.
Distinct from the above methods, Patruno et al. [59] employed Skeleton Standard
Postures (SSPs) and color descriptors to re-identify individuals. Three-dimensional skeleton
information was used to regularize the pose of every person. Depending on the SSP, a
partition grid categorized the samples of the point cloud according to their position. This
representation of point clouds provides information about a person’s color appearance.
The combination of color and depth information creates an effective signature of the
person to increase the performance of re-identiﬁcation. The effectiveness of this approach
was evaluated using three public datasets: BIWI RGBD-ID, KinectREID, and RGBD-ID.
The performance of their proposed method was assessed with CMC curves. A rank-1
recognition rate of 61.41% was achieved using this approach on KinectREID, which is
an improvement of about 11% compared with Pala et al.’s [41] proposed method. The
improvement for RGBD-ID was about 15%, with a rank-1 recognition rate of 89.34%
compared with the rate of 73.85% from Pala et al.’s proposed method.
Overall, the state-of-the-art Re-ID approaches described above achieved a moderate
accuracy of re-identiﬁcation using RGB and Skeleton information. One advantage of
using skeleton information is that skeletons are invariant under extreme lighting and
clothing changes.
2.3. Depth–Skeleton Information-Based Person Re-ID
Depth shapes, which are point clouds of individual and skeleton information, are
used to re-identify individual people when color-appearance features are unreliable in
dark environments. Re-ID researchers have employed depth and skeleton information to
tackle extremely low-illumination conditions and the clothing-changes problem. Initially, a
skeleton joint-point-estimation algorithm was used to extract soft biometric cues from depth
data [58]. To alleviate the problem of individuals being captured in different poses under
the distributed cameras in a camera network, some approaches warped the person’s point
clouds to a standard pose [14,35]. In some recent works, the depth-shape descriptor of an
individual was combined with skeleton-based features to form a complete representation
of their human body shape [34,36,63]. The general framework of depth and skeleton
information-based Re-ID is shown in Figure 7.
In [58], the authors divided their proposed approach into two distinct phases. In the
ﬁrst phase, they extracted two groups of features: skeleton-based features, which are a
combination of the distances between the joint points and the distances between the ﬂoor
plane and each joint point; and surface-based features, which are the geodesic distances
computed between joint pairs. In the second phase, these features were used jointly to
re-identify a person by matching a probe set with a gallery setting. The authors evaluated
the normalized area under the curve (nAUC) of the CMC to assess the performance of
their proposed method. For evaluation, two groups of RGBD-ID datasets (Collaborative
and Walking2) were selected. The nAUC was obtained for different features and produced
results from 52.8% to 88.1%. Later, the Walking1, Walking2, and Backward groups of the
dataset were used to obtain improved nAUC scores.

Sensors 2023, 23, 1504
9 of 29
Figure 7. A ﬂowchart of the depth–skeleton information-based Re-ID framework.
Munaro et al. [35] proposed a comparison between two techniques, skeleton-based
features and global body-shape descriptors, for one-shot person re-identiﬁcation. First, the
authors calculated the few limb lengths and their ratios using the three-dimensional location
of the body’s joint points provided by the skeleton estimation algorithm. By exploiting this
skeleton information, the method transformed a person’s point clouds into a standard pose
in real time to tackle the different poses of an individual. To perform extensive experiments,
the authors used the publicly available RGBD-ID dataset and their collected BIWI RGBD-ID
datasets, and the CMC and nAUC were used as evaluation parameters. The authors used
a skeleton descriptor with four classiﬁers (Nearest Neighbor, SVM, Generic SVM, and
Naïve Bayes), of which Nearest Neighbor achieved the superior results. Their proposed
approach obtained a rank-1 recognition rate of 26.6% and an nAUC of 89.7% when the Still
group was selected from the BIWI RGBD-ID dataset as a test set, and 21.1% and 86.6%,
respectively, for the Walking group. Point-cloud matching outperformed the skeleton-based
descriptor with a rank-1 accuracy of 32.5% for the Still group and 22.4% for the Walking
group. They evaluated their method using the RGBD-ID dataset and selected different
combinations of groups for training and testing. When they selected Walking1 for training
and Walking2 for testing, they achieved the best results among the different groups with
NN and Generic-SVM classiﬁers. This method achieved a rank one of 28.6% and an nAUC
of 89.9% for NN and 35.7% and 92.8% for Generic SVM, respectively. In [14], Munaro et al.
upgraded the previous work by composing 3D models of individual people’s transformed
point clouds for re-identiﬁcation.
In [34], the authors proposed a robust, depth-based person re-identiﬁcation method
where they exploited depth–voxel covariance (DVCov) descriptors and local rotation-
invariant depth-shape descriptors to describe pedestrian body shapes. Additionally, they
extracted skeleton-based features (SKL) from joint points of the skeleton body and then
constructed the re-identiﬁcation framework by combining the depth shape descriptors and
skeleton-based features. The proposed framework was evaluated on three re-identiﬁcation
datasets: RGBD-ID, BIWI RGBD-ID, and IAS-Lab RGBD-ID. It achieved a high performance
with the RGBD-ID dataset, where the rank-1 recognition rate was 67.64% for single shots
and 71.74% for multi-shots, and outperformed all depth- and skeleton-based methods.
When it was used with the BIWI and IAS-Lab datasets, its performance decreased because
of the different viewing angles that made the analysis more challenging than it was with
the RGBD-ID dataset.
In [63], Imani et al. proposed a short-term Re-ID method where they modeled depth
images as complex networks and introduced two novel features, named the histogram of
the edge weight (HEW) and the histogram of the node strength (HNS), on the networks.
However, the authors also extracted HNSs from single frames and multi-frames and de-
ﬁned them as histograms of special node strength (HSNS) and histograms of temporal

Sensors 2023, 23, 1504
10 of 29
node strength (HTNS), respectively. Finally, these features were combined with skeleton
features using score-level fusion. They selected two short-term person re-identiﬁcation
datasets, RGBD-ID and KinectREID, to evaluate the performance of their proposed ap-
proach. The proposed approach achieved performances at rank one of 58.35% and 64.43%
for single shots and multi-shots, respectively, for the KinectREID dataset. However, with
the RGBD-ID dataset, it achieved 62.43% and 72.35% at rank one with single shots and
multi-shots, respectively.
Later, Imani et al. [36] proposed a person re-identiﬁcation method using three local pat-
tern descriptors (local binary patterns (LBP), local derivative patterns (LDP), and local tetra
patterns (LTrP)) and anthropometric measures. This approach fused the histograms of LBP,
LDP, and LTrP with the anthropometric measures using Kinect sensors. As their proposed
approach is for short-term person Re-ID, they selected two short-term re-identiﬁcation
datasets, RGBD-ID and KinectREID, for their experiments. The RGBD-ID dataset was cate-
gorized into four groups—Backward, Walking1, Walking2, and Collaborative—according
to their frontal and rear views. The people who changed their clothes were discarded
from the experiments and divided into two smaller databases, Walking2–Backward and
Walking1–Collaborative. The fusion of SGLTrP3 (i.e., third-order LTrP with Gabor features)
with anthropometric measures achieved rank-1 accuracies of 76.58% and 72.58% for the
Walking1–Collaborative and Walking2–Backward groups, respectively. The Walking1–
Collaborative group achieved a higher accuracy than Walking2–Backward because it has a
frontal view while the latter group has a rear view. The recognition rate of the KinectREID
dataset at rank one of the SGLTrP3 was 66.08%.
Although the performance of depth and skeleton information-based Re-ID is lower
than that of color-appearance-based Re-ID, it is very effective where RGB appearance-based
Re-ID methods tend to fail, i.e., in dark conditions or when clothes are changed.
2.4. RGB-, Depth-, and Skeleton-Based Person Re-ID
Because RGB–D sensors can capture RGB, depth, and skeleton information simul-
taneously, Imani et al. [55] used depth and RGB feature descriptors along with skeleton
information. They proposed a local pattern descriptor (LVP—local vector pattern) to extract
features from different regions of depth and RGB modalities, where depth and RGB images
were divided into three regions: the head, the torso, and the legs. Skeleton features, which
are particularly Euclidean distances, are computed from 20 joint points of a skeleton. Finally,
features extracted from the different modalities were combined by double and triple combi-
nations using score-level fusion as shown in Figure 8. However, the performance of the
triple combination (i.e., RGB, depth, and skeleton) did not exceed the double combination
(i.e., depth and skeleton, RGB and depth, or RGB and skeleton).
They performed experiments on two publicly available datasets, KinectREID and
RGBD-ID, and investigated different combinations of the modalities. A combination
of skeleton and RGB modalities achieved the highest level of accuracy, with a rank-1
recognition accuracy of 75.83% with the KinectREID dataset. The authors split the RGBD-
ID dataset into two smaller datasets, named RGBD-ID1 and RGBD-ID2, by discarding
the people who changed their clothes in the different groups. RGBD-ID1 consists of
the Walking1–Collaborative group of 59 people and RGBD-ID2 consists of the Walking2–
Backward group of 72 people. The recognition performance of RGBD-ID1 exceeded the
RGBD-ID2 dataset for the combination of depth and skeleton modalities because the
Walking1 and Collaborative groups are in frontal view. The recognition accuracies were
85.5% and 80.5% for the RGBD-ID1 and RGBD-ID2 datasets, respectively.
The main challenge of the tri-modal method (i.e., RGB, depth, and skeleton) is how
to fuse the features of the three modalities to gain a superior accuracy. A combination of
RGB and skeleton features achieved a higher level of accuracy than the tri-modal method,
which is a drawback of this approach.

Sensors 2023, 23, 1504
11 of 29
Figure 8. A ﬂowchart of the RGB–depth–skeleton-based Re-ID.
2.5. RGB, Depth, and Thermal Image-Based Person Re-ID
Mogelmose et al. [44] proposed a novel approach that integrated RGB, depth, and
thermal data in a person Re-ID system. The authors used color histograms for RGB
data from different regions of the body, and soft biometric cues were extracted from the
depth data. Because thermal images cannot contain color information, they extracted local
structural information using SURF [64]. The features extracted from the three modalities
were fused in a joined classiﬁer as shown in Figure 9. The proposed tri-modal system was
evaluated with their own recorded RGB–D–T dataset using a CMC curve, and it gained an
82% rank-1 recognition accuracy.

Sensors 2023, 23, 1504
12 of 29
Figure 9. A ﬂowchart of RGB–depth–skeleton-based Re-ID.
Summarized information about the above studies is presented in Table 1.
Table 1. Shows summarized information about the different multi-modal state-of-the-art Re-ID
approaches.
Reference
Year
Approach
Brief Description
Dataset and Accuracy
(Rank 1/nAUC)
Barbosa et al. [58]
2012
Soft-biometric
feature-learning
approach.
This Re-ID approach has two distinct
phases: soft-biometric feature extraction
and matching. Soft-biometric features
are extracted from depth data, and these
features are matched against test
samples from the gallery set.
RGBD-ID:
88.1% (nAUC).
Mogelmose et al. [44]
2013
RGB, depth,
and thermal
feature-based
score-level fusion
technique.
In this approach, color information from
different parts of the body, soft
biometrics, and local structural
information are extracted from RGB,
depth, and thermal data, respectively.
This information is combined in a joined
classiﬁer to perform the Re-ID task.
RGB–D–T:
82% (rank 1).

Sensors 2023, 23, 1504
13 of 29
Table 1. Cont.
Reference
Year
Approach
Brief Description
Dataset and Accuracy
(Rank 1/nAUC)
Munaro et al. [35]
2014
One-shot person
Re-ID with
soft-biometric cues.
This approach compares the
performance of Re-IDs between skeleton
information and point-cloud-estimation
techniques. The authors considered four
different classiﬁers, Nearest Neighbor,
SVM, Generic SVM, and Naïve Bayes, to
compare the performance
between them.
BIWI RGBD-ID: For
skeleton, 26.6% (rank 1)
and 89.7% (nAUC). For
point cloud, 22.4%
(rank 1) and 81.6%
(nAUC).
Munaro et al. [14]
2014
3D-model
reconstruction of
freely moving
people from point
clouds which are
used to re-identify
individuals.
This approach shows how the 3D model
of a person is effectively used for person
re-identiﬁcation tasks and also
overcomes the issue of pose variation by
turning the skeleton information of a
person’s point clouds into a
standard pose.
BIWI RGBD-ID:
32.5% (rank 1), 89.0%
(nAUC).
IAS-Lab RGBD-ID:
43.7% (rank 1), 81.7%
(nAUC).
Pala et al. [41]
2015
RGB appearance
features and
skeleton
information-based
score-level fusion
technique.
In this approach, the re-identiﬁcation
accuracy of RGB appearance features is
improved by fusing them with
anthropometric information extracted
from depth data. A dissimilarity-based
framework is employed for fusing
multi-modal features.
RGBD-ID:
73.85% (rank 1).
KinectREID:
50.37% (rank 1).
Imani et al. [36]
2016
Re-identiﬁcation
using local pattern
descriptors and
anthropometric
measures.
In this approach, the histograms of
Local Binary Patterns (LBP) and Local
Tetra Patterns (LTrP) are computed as
features for person Re-ID. These
histogram features are fused with
anthropometric features using
score-level fusion.
RGBD-ID:
76.58% (rank 1).
KinectREID:
66.08% (rank 1).
Wu et al. [34]
2017
Depth-shape-based
Re-ID approach.
This approach exploits depth–voxel
covariance descriptors and local,
invariant Eigen-depth features. The
authors also extracted skeleton features
from joint points of the skeleton. Finally,
they combined depth-shape descriptors
with skeleton-based features to form
complete representations of individuals
for re-identiﬁcation
RGBD-ID:
67.64% (rank 1).
BIWI RGBD-ID:
30.52% (rank 1).
IAS-Lab RGBD-ID:
58.65% (rank 1).
Ren et al. [37]
2017
Uniform deep-
learning-based
person Re-ID
approach.
This approach uses the deep network to
extract anthropometric features from
depth images and design a multi-modal
fusion layer combining the extracted
features and RGB images through the
network with a uniform latent variable.
RGBD-ID:
76.7% (rank 1).
KinectREID:
97% (rank 1).
Lejbolle et al. [40]
2017
CNN-based
multi-modal feature
fusion approach.
This Re-ID approach considers an
overhead view rather than a frontal
view of individuals, which reduces
privacy issues and occlusion problems.
Two CNN models are trained using
RGB and depth images to provide fused
features, which improve the
accuracy of Re-ID.
OPR:
74.69% (rank 1).
TVPR:
77.66% (rank 1).
DPI-T:
90.36% (rank 1).

Sensors 2023, 23, 1504
14 of 29
Table 1. Cont.
Reference
Year
Approach
Brief Description
Dataset and Accuracy
(Rank 1/nAUC)
Liu et al. [33]
2017
Person
re-identiﬁcation
based on metric
model updates.
In this approach, each person is
described by RGB appearance cues and
geometric features using skeleton
information. Then, a metric model is
pre-trained ofﬂine using label data, and
face information is utilized to update
the metric model online. Finally, feature
similarities are fused using the feature
funnel model.
RobotPKU:
77.94% (rank 1).
BIWI RGBD-ID:
91.4% (rank 1).
Lejbolle et al. [47]
2018
A multi-modal
attention network
based on RGB and
depth modalities.
This Re-ID approach considers an
overhead view for person Re-ID to
decrease occlusion problems and
increase privacy preservation. A CNN
and an attention module are combined
to extract local and discriminative
features that are fused with globally
extracted features. The authors ﬁnally
fused RGB and depth features to
generate joint multilevel
RGB–D features.
DPI-T:
90.36% (rank 1).
TVPR:
63.83% (rank 1).
OPR:
45.63% (rank 1).
Imani et al. [63]
2018
Two novel
histogram
feature-based
Re-ID.
The authors extracted two features, a
histogram of the edge weight and a
histogram of the node strength, from
depth images. Then, the histograms
were combined with skeleton features
using score-level fusion and were used
for person re-identiﬁcation.
KinectREID:
58.35% (rank 1).
RGBD-ID:
62.43% (rank 1).
Patruno et al. [59]
2019
Person Re-ID using
Skeleton Standard
Postures and color
descriptors.
This approach introduces Skeleton
Standard Postures (SSPs) for computing
partition grids to generate independent
and robust color-based features. A
combination of the color and the depth
of information identiﬁes very
informative features of a person to
increase re-identiﬁcation performance.
BIWI RGBD-ID:
97.84% (rank 1).
KinectREID:
61.97% (rank 1).
RGBD-ID:
89.71% (rank 1).
Ren et al. [38]
2019
Uniform and
variational deep
learning for
person Re-ID.
This approach uses uniform and
variational deep learning for person
re-identiﬁcation. The authors extracted
RGB appearance features and depth
features using one CNN for each feature
from RGB–D images. To combine the
appearance features and depth features,
uniform and variational auto-encoders
were designed on the top layer of the
deep network to ﬁnd a uniform
latent variable.
KinectREID:
99.4% (rank 1).
RGBD-ID:
76.7% (rank 1).

Sensors 2023, 23, 1504
15 of 29
Table 1. Cont.
Reference
Year
Approach
Brief Description
Dataset and Accuracy
(Rank 1/nAUC)
Imani et al. [55]
2020
Re-identiﬁcation
using RGB, depth,
and skeleton
information.
In this approach, the depth and RGB
images are divided into three regions:
the head, the torso, and the legs. For
each region, a histogram of local vector
patterns is estimated. The skeleton
features are extracted by calculating the
various Euclidean distances for the joint
points of skeleton images. Then,
extracted features are combined as
double and triple combinations using
score-level fusion.
KinectREID:
75.83% (rank 1).
RGBD-ID:
85.5% (rank 1).
Uddin et al. [48]
2020
Depth-guided
attention of
person Re-ID.
This approach introduces depth-guided,
attention-based person re-identiﬁcation.
The key component of this framework is
the depth-guided foreground extraction
that helps the model improve the
performance of Re-ID.
RobotPKU:
92.04% (rank 1).
Martini et al. [57]
2020
A deep-learning
approach for
top-view,
open-world
person Re-ID.
The authors present top-view,
open-world person Re-ID. This
approach is based on a pretrained deep
CNN, ﬁnetuned using a dataset
acquired by using top-view
conﬁguration. A triplet loss function is
used to train the network.
TVPR:
95.13% (rank 1).
TVPR2 [42]:
93.30% (rank 1).
Uddin et al. [42]
2021
Fusion in a
dissimilarity space
for RGB–D
person Re-ID.
In this approach, two CNNs are
separately trained with three-channel
RGB and four-channel RGB–D images
to produce two different feature
embeddings and compute the
dissimilarities between queries and
galleries in different feature
embeddings. The computed
dissimilarities for two individual modes
are then fused in a dissimilarity space to
obtain their ﬁnal matching scores.
RobotPKU:
93.33% (rank 1).
RGBD-ID:
82.05% (rank 1).
SUCVL:
87.65% (rank 1).
3. Cross-Modal Person Re-Identiﬁcation
Single-modal person Re-ID matches probe samples with gallery samples, and all
samples are taken from the same modality (i.e., RGB–RGB or IR–IR matching) [65]. Unlike
single-modal Re-ID, cross-modal Re-ID aims to match the probe sample taken from one
modality against a gallery set from another modality, such as RGB–IR, RGB–depth, or
sketch–RGB images [13,52,66], as shown in Figure 10.

Sensors 2023, 23, 1504
16 of 29
Figure 10. Illustration of cross-modal person Re-ID. (a) Sketch–RGB cross-modal Re-ID uses sketch
as a query and RGB as a gallery or vice versa. (b) IR–RGB cross-modal Re-ID uses IR as a query and
RGB as a gallery or vice versa. (c) Depth–RGB cross-modal Re-ID uses depth as a query and RGB as a
gallery or vice versa.
Cross-modal Re-ID is very important for nighttime surveillance systems because the
RGB camera fails to capture color information at night. On the contrary, depth and IR
cameras can capture depth and infrared images, respectively. Re-ID researchers have
employed both depth (i.e., RGB–D) and IR cameras for nighttime surveillance. However,
RGB–D cameras (e.g., Kinect and Intel RealSense depth cameras) are independent of
visible light, have distance limitations, and can only be used for indoor applications. In
contrast, modern surveillance cameras can automatically switch from RGB to IR in dark
environments. Therefore, both cameras (i.e., depth and IR cameras) can be employed in
cross-modal Re-ID for 24-h surveillance systems. Considering the availability of different
modalities, cross-modal person Re-ID can be divided into three categories: sketch–RGB
cross-modal Re-ID, RGB–depth cross-modal Re-ID, and RGB–IR cross-modal Re-ID. In
this section, we overview all the categories and data discrepancies among the different
modalities used in cross-modal Re-ID and brieﬂy describe the state-of-the-art performance
of the proposed methods.
3.1. RGB–Sketch Cross-Modal Person Re-ID
To give a real-world scenario, sometimes it is required to investigate a crime scene
when a query person is unavailable in practical forensic settings. Pang et al. [66] proposed
a cross-modal person Re-ID method using a sketch of a target person. A sketch of a

Sensors 2023, 23, 1504
17 of 29
person carries low-level texture information without color cues. The authors employed
a cross-domain adversarial feature learning technique that jointly learns identity- and
domain-invariant features. This method signiﬁcantly reduces the domain gap between
sketch and RGB modalities. They performed experiments on their proposed sketch-photo
Re-ID dataset and evaluated the results using CMC curves. Although the authors did not
specify which domain was selected as the query set and which as the gallery set, it might
have been sketch as the query and RGB as the gallery, and vice versa. The proposed method
obtained a 34.0% rank-1 accuracy.
3.2. RGB–Depth Cross-Modal Person Re-ID
RGB–depth cross-modal Re-ID matches a person of interest across RGB and depth
modalities. Recently, a few works [49–53] investigated how to mitigate the domain gap
between RGB and depth modalities. As the nature of the data for both modalities is
heterogeneous, Re-ID researchers have proposed their own methods to tackle the challenges
of the process, such as data discrepancy, and have utilized conventional [49,50] and deep-
learning methods [51–53] to identify individuals across the two modalities. The general
architecture of RGB–depth cross-modal Re-ID methods is shown in Figure 11.
Figure 11. The general architecture of RGB–depth cross-modal Re-ID.
In [49], the authors proposed a heterogeneous camera network to re-identify a person
across RGB and depth modalities. To maintain a correlation between these two modalities, a
dictionary-based learning algorithm was proposed to transform the edge gradient features
(HOG and SILTP) extracted from RGB images and Eigen-depth features extracted from
depth images into sparse code that shares a common space. The proposed method was
evaluated with two datasets: RGBD-ID and BIWI RGBD-ID. Experiments were carried out
for two cases, one which used RGB image-based features for the gallery and depth-based
features for the probe, and another which was reversed. For the RGBD-ID dataset, a
rank-1 recognition rate was obtained at 11.05% when they set depth-based features as the
gallery and RGB-based features (HOG) as the probe. Similarly, they obtained an 11.84%
rank-1 recognition for the BIWI RGBD-ID dataset. However, the rank -one recognition
rate was highest (12.11%) when RGB-based features were extracted using SILTP and set
as the probe, and depth-based features were set as the gallery. Uddin et al. [50] also used
edge gradient features (HOG, SILTP, and LBP) as local shape descriptors, but in a slightly
different manner than the above work [49]. The authors extracted edge gradient features
from both modalities (RGB and depth) and used PCA- and LDA-based metric learning

Sensors 2023, 23, 1504
18 of 29
approaches to obtain a higher accuracy of Re-ID. They performed experiments on the BIWI
RGBD-ID and IAS-Lab RGBD-ID datasets and received higher accuracies using HOG-based
features for both datasets. The rank-1 recognition rates were 41.43% and 38.93% for the
BIWI and IAS-Lab datasets, respectively, when they considered RGB as the gallery and
depth as the probe.
Recently, Hafner et al. [51,52] proposed a deep transfer learning technique where a
cross-modal distillation network was employed to transfer knowledge from RGB modalities
to depth modalities or vice versa to solve cross-modal Re-ID between RGB and depth. The
authors extended the work of [51] by changing embedding size as a hyperparameter for
the optimization of Re-ID to achieve a superior accuracy [52]. They evaluated their method
using two public datasets, BIWI RGBD-ID and RobotPKU, and obtained a 42.8 ± 3.9%
rank-1 recognition for BIWI with RGB as the gallery and depth as the query. However,
for the RobotPKU dataset, they received a higher accuracy (25.3 ± 2.0%) when RGB was
set as the query and depth as the gallery. Although this approach obtained outstanding
performance, the cross-modal distillation network is a two-stage learning procedure and
cannot be trained in an end-to-end manner. Additionally, this network extracts only
global features from all images of individual pedestrians, which affects the viewpoint
variations of the pedestrians. To solve this issue, Wu et al. [53] proposed an end-to-end
heterogeneous restraint network (HRN) to perform RGB–D cross-modal person Re-ID tasks.
HRN captures common spatial relationships between RGB and depth modalities by using
a dual-modal local branch and reduces the domain gap between the two modalities. This
approach was tested on two datasets, BIWI RGBD-ID and RobotPKU, with one setting
including RGB as the gallery and depth as the query and another setting with the opposite
conﬁguration. When the authors used depth as the query and RGB as the gallery for the
BIWI dataset, they achieved a higher rank-1 accuracy (47.1%) compared with the opposite
setting (43.9%). However, this approach obtained an only 25.7% rank-1 recognition accuracy
for the RobotPKU dataset when they used depth as the query and RGB as the gallery.
3.3. RGB–IR Cross-Modal Person Re-ID
RGB–IR-based Person Re-ID is the most widely studied cross-modal setting over all the
other alternatives, thanks to the introduction of the SYSU-MM01 dataset [45], which initiates
the path of an RGB–IR-based cross-modal Re-ID scenario. Following the survey paper
in [13], state-of-the-art Re-ID approaches using RGB–IR-based cross-modal methods can
be divided into two categories: non-generative- [67–81] and generative-based approaches.
The former one relies on traditional feature representation [67–81] and metric learning
approaches to maximize the similarities between two images with the same identity and
minimize the similarities between two images with different identities, while the latter
one depends on the uniﬁcation of images from different modalities to minimize the data
distribution gap between two different modalities.
Non-Generative Cross-Modal Re-ID: Non-generative cross-modal Re-ID approaches
aim to ﬁnd discriminative feature embedding by either deploying feature learning ap-
proaches [67–87] or utilizing metric learning approaches. Most of the existing feature
learning approaches focus on extracting global features by employing: one individual
branch each for visible and infrared images [67]; a cross-modality shared-speciﬁc feature
transfer algorithm [68]; consistency at the feature and classiﬁer levels [69]; or attention
mechanisms [70,71]. Some global features that learning Re-ID approaches focus on are
the disentanglement of ID-discriminable and ID-ambiguous cross-modality feature sub-
spaces [72] and the disentanglement of spectrum information to maximize invariant ID
information while minimizing the inﬂuence of spectrum information [73]. Contrarily,
local feature learning-based Re-ID approaches [74–81] rely on ﬁne-grained person recog-
nition by either dividing global features into part-based feature representations [74] or
deploying a body partition model [75] to automatically detect and distinguish effective com-
ponent representations. There are some Re-ID approaches [76–81] that utilize both global

Sensors 2023, 23, 1504
19 of 29
and local features to design powerful feature descriptors for RGB–IR-based cross-modal
Re-ID settings.
The aim of metric learning-based Re-ID approaches [82–86] is to direct feature repre-
sentations to fulﬁll certain objective functions for better recognition. Owing to the metric
learning approach, a two-stream network architecture was proposed in [82], in which
contrastive loss is utilized to bridge the gap between two modalities and enhance the
modality invariance of learned representations. Following the success of utilizing triplet
loss for classical Re-ID, Liu et al. [83,85] reformulated triplet loss with a center-to-center
mode rather than instance-to-instance. Ye et al. [84] proposed a triplet loss that uses the
angles between instances as a distance measure for optimizing the network. Similarly,
in [86], a feature space is mapped onto an angular space and utilized for triplet loss and
center loss for network optimization. In [87], a modiﬁed version called quadruplet loss
is proposed, which combines triple loss with classiﬁcation loss to optimize the proposed
hyperspherical manifold-embedded network.
Generative Cross-Modal Re-ID: The recent success of generative adversarial networks
(GANs) for generating fake images has prompted researchers to focus on mutual translation
between the two modalities. In contrast to direct modality translation, a few approaches
disentangled ID-discriminative and ID-excluding factors and then generated image pairs
to extract highly discriminative features. In direct modality translation, Zhong et al. [88]
proposed a colorization-based Siamese generative adversarial network that bridged the gap
between modalities by retaining the identities of the colored infrared images. Regarding the
matching from visible to infrared, in [88], fake infrared images generated by GAN matched
with gallery images to minimize the discrepancies between the modalities. Because of the
claim that GAN-generated fake images introduce plenty of noise, fake images generated by
GAN were replaced with grayscale images that had three channels in [89]. Projecting both
visible and infrared modalities into a common consistent space seemed to be successful
in [90–94], reducing the effects of bias caused by individual modality. Most of these
approaches [90–94] ﬁrst generated visible–infrared image pairs through disentanglement
and then mapped them onto a uniﬁed space to reduce their dual-level discrepancies.
Apart from modality-translation-based Re-ID approaches, there are a few attempts [95–98]
that introduce a third modality to reduce the modality discrepancy. The idea of using
a third modality was proposed by Li et al. [95], who introduced an “X” modality as a
middle modality to eliminate cross-modal discrepancies. Following the same pipeline,
in [96,97], real images from both modalities were combined with ground-truth labels to
generate third-modal images, which help to reduce modality-related biases. In [98], a
non-linear middle modality generator was proposed that effectively projects images from
both modalities onto a uniﬁed space to generate an additional modality to reduce the
modality discrepancies.
A thorough review of state-of-the-art cross-modal Re-ID approaches suggests that
the recognition accuracies (i.e., rank-1 and mAP) of all these approaches are still below
average when compared with other Re-ID scenarios. For instance, the rank-1 accuracy
of Pang et al.’s [66] approach with an RGB–sketch cross-modal person Re-ID setting is
only 34%, whereas the range of rank-1 accuracies for most state-of-the-art approaches
with RGB–depth cross-modal Re-ID settings is between 40% and 50%. Compared with
the two cross-modal settings described above, the range of rank-1 accuracies for RGB–IR
cross-modal Re-ID is higher, mainly due to fewer inter-modal data discrepancies between
RGB and RGB–IR modalities. From this discussion, it can be deduced that there is ample
room for improving the accuracy of Re-ID, and it is still an active area of research.
4. Single-Modal Person Re-ID
In this survey, we include only IR–IR and depth–depth single-modal person Re-ID because
previous surveys did not include these types of single-modal Re-ID methods [2–12]. They
mainly focused on RGB–RGB single-modal person Re-ID methods. IR–IR and depth–depth

Sensors 2023, 23, 1504
20 of 29
modality matching is a very challenging task because IR and depth images have no color
appearance cues, even texture information.
4.1. IR–IR Single-Modal Person Re-ID
To the best of our knowledge, only two Re-ID works [17,54] have been proposed
with IR–IR matching. In [17], the authors introduced a person re-identiﬁcation approach
utilizing local features in infrared image sequences. Local features are visual words that
are used to generate a person’s signature. Then, these features were used for person
re-identiﬁcation. They evaluated their approach using a subset of the CASIA infrared
dataset [99] and received correct classiﬁcation rates of 81% for single frames and 95% for
sequences of frames.
In [54], Co¸sar et al. proposed a re-identiﬁcation method for service robots using
thermal images, in which the authors performed entropy-based sampling during training
to build thermal dictionaries of humans and then converted the sequence of dictionary
elements into a symbolic form. This new representation of symbols was used as a feature to
train SVM classiﬁers. They recorded a thermal dataset to perform experiments for person re-
identiﬁcation. The dataset was recorded in an indoor environment for different situations,
including human motion, poses, and occlusion, using a thermal camera (Optris PI-450)
which was mounted on a Kampai robot. Finally, an experiment was performed on the
dataset and obtained a 57.6% overall re-identiﬁcation accuracy for their proposed method.
4.2. Depth–Depth Single-Modal Person Re-ID
In Section 2.3, we summarized the works [34–36,58,63] that combined depth shape
and skeleton joint-point information to re-identify a person. Among them, Wu et al. [34]
additionally investigated depth–depth single-modal person Re-ID on three benchmark
datasets, RGBD-ID, BIWI RGBD-ID, and IAS Lab, where they used DVCov (depth–voxel
covariance) and ED (Eigen-depth) features. With the RGB–D dataset, they obtained 61.49%
and 44.67% rank-1 accuracies for DVCov and ED features, respectively, when one image per
person was randomly selected as the gallery (single-shot). Similarly, rank-1 accuracies of
16.32% and 28.98% with the BIWI RGBD-ID dataset were achieved, and 27.95% and 32.09%
with the IAS Lab dataset. In [52], Hafner et al. proposed the cross-modal person Re-ID
method discussed in Section 3.2. The authors also investigated depth–depth single-modal
Re-ID and evaluated its performance with BIWI and RobotPKU datasets. In this case, they
used ResNet50 as an optimizer with both triplet loss and softmax loss and obtained a
higher performance with softmax loss. With BIWI, it achieved an approximately 59.8%
rank-1 recognition accuracy. With RobotPKU, it achieved an approximately 44.5% rank-1
recognition accuracy.
To evaluate all the proposed Re-ID approaches, it is of utmost importance to have
proper Re-ID datasets with proper experimental settings. Consequently, contributing a
new dataset is considered one of the main contributions in the literature. Thus, considering
the importance of Re-ID datasets, the following section (i.e., Section 5) discusses the most
important multi-modal Re-ID datasets that are used by the Re-ID community to validate
their approaches.
5. Datasets
There are several surveys [2–12] that mainly focus on RGB Re-ID dataset description
and summarization. There is no proper guidance for existing benchmark RGB–D, IR,
thermal, and sketch Re-ID datasets. This section summarizes the frequently used RGB–D,
IR, thermal, and sketch person Re-ID datasets. The datasets are divided into ﬁve categories
depending on widely used surveillance applications and modalities.
5.1. Multi-Modal RGB–D Datasets
As RGB cameras cannot capture the color cues of individuals in poor illumination
conditions, Re-ID researchers have employed RGB–D sensors (Microsoft Kinect and Intel

Sensors 2023, 23, 1504
21 of 29
RealSense depth cameras) to capture images of individuals in dark conditions. RGB, depth,
and skeleton modalities can be obtained simultaneously using Microsoft Kinect SDK [35],
as shown in Figure 2. By combining these modalities, Re-ID researchers have proposed and
evaluated their methods using benchmark datasets, such as RGBD-ID [58], KinectREID [41],
RobotPKU RGBD-ID [33], SUCVL RGBD-ID [42], BIWI RGBD-ID [35] and IAS-Lab [14].
These datasets were recorded with different variations of poses, including the frontal,
rear, and side views of individuals as shown in Figure 12. The datasets are summarized
in Table 2.
Figure 12. Sample images showing frontal, rear, and side views of an individual, with the camera
installed at a horizontal viewpoint.
Table 2. Shows summarized information about the multi-modal datasets. ‘*’ indicates the dataset is
not publicly available.
Dataset
Year
#ID
#Camera and Location
RGB
Depth
Skeleton
RGBD-ID
2012
79
1 (same location but different
clothes and poses)
√
√
√
BIWI-RGBD-ID
2014
50
1 (same location but different days
with different clothes and poses)
√
√
√
IAS-Lab
2014
11
2 (different locations and people
wearing different clothes)
√
√
√
KinectREID
2015
71
1 (same room with different poses)
√
√
√
RobotPKU RGBD-ID
2017
90
2 (two different rooms
with pose variations)
√
√
√
SUCVL RGBD-ID *
2021
58
3 (three different indoor locations)
√
√

Sensors 2023, 23, 1504
22 of 29
5.2. Top-View RGB–D Datasets
Unlike the multi-modal datasets described above, these were captured from a top
view rather than horizontally to reduce occlusion and privacy [43], as shown in Figure 13.
Three RGB–D datasets have been proposed for top-view person re-identiﬁcation: Top-
View Person Re-Identiﬁcation (TVPR) [43], Depth-Based Person Identiﬁcation from Top
(DPI-T) [39], and Overhead Person Re-Identiﬁcation (OPR) [40].
Figure 13. Sample image taken from the TVPR dataset showing an overhead view of a person.
TVPR: This dataset comprises 23 video recordings of 100 people containing RGB and
depth information. Recordings were made in an indoor hall, where people were passing
under the camera installed on the ceiling. Most of the methods split the dataset into a
training set, which consists of all people walking from the left to the right directions, and a
testing set, which consists of the same persons walking in the opposite direction [40,43,47].
DPI-T: This dataset was recorded with an RGB–D camera in an indoor hall and consists
of 12 persons who appear in a total of 25 videos across several days. On average, individuals
wore ﬁve different sets of clothing during the recording times.
OPR: This dataset was collected using a depth camera which was placed in the ceiling
at a university canteen to capture images of individuals when entering and leaving the
canteen. This dataset consists of 78,742 frames and 64 different persons.
5.3. RGB–D and Thermal Dataset
An RGB–D and thermal dataset named RGB-D-T [44] contains data from three modali-
ties, RGB, depth, and thermal (see in Figure 14), of 35 people who passed by the sensors
twice for 70 passes in total. To capture all three modalities at one time, a Microsoft Kinect
camera was used to capture RGB and depth data, and a thermal camera was mounted over
the Kinect’s RGB camera lens.
 
Figure 14. Sample images showing three modalities (RGB, depth, and thermal) taken from the
RGB-D-T dataset.

Sensors 2023, 23, 1504
23 of 29
5.4. RGB–Sketch Re-ID Dataset
Unlike the above datasets, this dataset contains whole-body sketches and RGB images
of individuals (see Figure 15), where sketches are used to match against RGB images. Sketch–
RGB cross-domain matching is a very challenging task due to the large gap between sketch
and RGB data. Pang et al. [66] collected a sketch Re-ID dataset with 200 people, where each
individual has one sketch and two RGB images from the different associated cameras.
Figure 15. Example images showing sketches of different persons and their corresponding RGB images.
5.5. RGB–IR Cross-Modal Datasets
RGB–infrared Re-ID aims to match daytime RGB images and nighttime infrared
images. This is a cross-modality matching because the two modalities have signiﬁcant gaps
according to the imaging principle (i.e., wavelength range) and nature of the data. In recent
years, Re-ID researchers have focused on cross-modal matching and have proposed several
methods. Almost all methods [67–98] of RGB–IR cross-modal Re-IDs used two benchmark
datasets: SYSU-MM01 [45] and RegDB [46]. To perform experiments in their proposed
methods, they used two RGB–IR benchmark datasets: SYSU-MM01 [45] and RegDB [46].
SYSU-MM01: This is the ﬁrst public benchmark RGB–IR dataset, proposed in 2017. It
was collected using six cameras: four RGB cameras and two IR cameras. IR cameras were
put in two dark places (Camera 3 was in the indoor room and Camera 6 in the outdoor
passage) to capture IR images while RGB cameras (Camera 1, Camera 2, Camera 4, and
Camera 5) were installed in four different indoor and outdoor places to capture RGB
images, as shown in Figure 16. There are, in total, 491 persons, 287,628 RGB images, and
15,792 infrared images with different poses and viewpoints. Each person was captured by
at least two cameras.
RegDB: RegDB is a small-scale dataset that contains 412 persons captured by a dual
camera system (one RGB and one thermal camera). Among the 412 persons, there are
254 females and 158 males. Each person appears in 10 RGB images and 10 corresponding
thermal images. There are a lot of viewpoint variations in this dataset because 156 individ-
uals were captured from the frontal view, while the remaining 256 were captured from the
rear view.

Sensors 2023, 23, 1504
24 of 29
Figure 16. The left ﬁgure shows sample images from the SYSU-MM01 dataset and the right one
shows sample images from the RegDB dataset.
6. Conclusions and Future Directions
Although visible (RGB) camera-based person Re-ID has obtained popularity in the
last decade, increasing application requirements in the nighttime have caused depth and
infrared sensor-based Re-ID to attract some researchers’ attention in the last few years. This
paper presents a comprehensive survey of person Re-ID with RGB–D and RGB–IR sensors.
First, we divide existing RGB–D and RGB–IR sensor-based works into three different
categories, multi-modal, cross-modal, and single-modal, and then these are subcategorized
according to the modalities used in the different methods of Re-ID. This categorization will
help new researchers who want a quick understanding of speciﬁc modality-based Re-ID
approaches. We also summarize the main contributions and performances of different
state-of-the-art Re-ID approaches on benchmark datasets. This survey also incorporates
detailed descriptions of the different benchmark RGB–D, IR, and thermal datasets.
From our rigorous studies on RGB–D and IR sensor-based person re-identiﬁcation
approaches and published datasets, we have observed the following directions in RGB–D
and IR sensor-based Re-ID:
•
Available datasets are insufﬁcient for training good models for deep-learning ap-
proaches. Though some datasets have a decent number of individuals [58], the number
of frames per person is insufﬁcient and is not enough to give the overall variations
necessary to build good models.
•
Some RGB–D datasets [14,35,41,58] were collected using a Kinect camera; however,
this camera is limited in capturing distant objects because it can only capture objects
within 4 m [41]. Therefore, this camera is not suitable for surveillance when individuals
exceed a distance of 4.0 m. To overcome this distance limitation, Re-ID researchers
can use modern Intel RealSense depth cameras, which can capture images at a range
of up to 10 m [100]. Moreover, the dataset [33] did not capture skeleton information
properly; even RGB and depth images were not synchronized.
•
A thorough review of state-of-the-art RGB–IR-based cross-modal Re-ID approaches
suggests that non-generative models deal with the issue of modality gaps at the feature
level while the generative model deals with it at the pixel-level. Although the chances

Sensors 2023, 23, 1504
25 of 29
of introducing noise with the generative model are high, it can effectively avoid the
effects of color information.
This survey also ﬁnds that different approaches relied on different experimental
settings, which hinders fair state-of-the-art comparison. Thus, as a future direction, we plan
to design a standard experimental set-up and perform experimental evaluations regarding
all state-of-the-art approaches to draw a fair comparison.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, M.K.U., A.B. and M.H.; software and resource, M.K.U.;
writing—original draft preparation, M.K.U., A.B. and M.H.; writing—review and editing, M.K.U., A.B.,
F.K.B., M.M.I. and M.H. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: There is no signiﬁcant funding for this research.
Institutional Review Board Statement: No speciﬁc consideration.
Informed Consent Statement: No issues inﬂuence the writing.
Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.
Acknowledgments: We acknowledge Yoshinori Kuno and Yoshinori Kobayashi of Saitama University,
Japan for their guidance and valuable suggestions for formulating this manuscript rigorously.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
References
1.
Gheissari, N.; Sebastian, T.B.; Hartley, R. Person reidentiﬁcation using spatiotemporal appearance. In Proceedings of the IEEE
Computer Society Conference on Computer Vision and pattern Recognition, New York, NY, USA, 17–22 June 2006; pp. 1528–1535.
2.
Islam, K. Person search: New paradigm of person re-identiﬁcation: A survey and outlook of recent works. Image Vis. Comput.
2020, 101, 103970. [CrossRef]
3.
Zheng, L.; Yang, Y.; Hauptmann, A.G. Person re-identiﬁcation: Past, Present and Future. arXiv 2016, arXiv:1610.02984.
4.
Wu, D.; Zheng, S.J.; Zhang, X.P.; Yuan, C.A.; Cheng, F.; Zhao, Y.; Lin, Y.J.; Zhao, Z.Q.; Jiang, Y.L.; Huang, D.S. Deep learning-based
methods for person re-identiﬁcation: A comprehensive review. Neurocomputing 2019, 337, 354–371. [CrossRef]
5.
Bedagkar-Gala, A.; Shah, S.K. A survey of approaches and trends in person re-identiﬁcation. Image Vis. Comput. 2014, 32, 270–286.
[CrossRef]
6.
Ye, M.; Shen, J.; Lin, G.; Xiang, T.; Shao, L.; Hoi, S.C. Deep learning for person re-identiﬁcation: A survey and outlook. IEEE Trans.
Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell. 2021, 44, 2872–2893. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
7.
Wang, H.; Du, H.; Zhao, Y.; Yan, J. A comprehensive overview of person re-identiﬁcation approaches. IEEE Access 2020, 8,
45556–45583. [CrossRef]
8.
Leng, Q.; Ye, M.; Tian, Q. A survey of open-world person re-identiﬁcation. IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. Video Technol. 2019, 30,
1092–1108. [CrossRef]
9.
Almasawa, M.O.; Elrefaei, L.A.; Moria, K. A survey on deep learning-based person re-identiﬁcation system. IEEE Access 2019, 7,
175228–175247. [CrossRef]
10.
Lavi, B.; Ullah, I.; Fatan, M.; Rocha, A. Survey on Reliable Deep Learning-Based Person Re-Identiﬁcation Models: Are We There
Yet? arXiv 2020, arXiv:2005.00355.
11.
Satta, R. Appearance descriptors for person re-identiﬁcation: A comprehensive review. arXiv 2013, arXiv:1307.5748.
12.
Yaghoubi, E.; Kumar, A.; Proença, H. SSS-PR: A short survey of surveys in person re-identiﬁcation. Pattern Recognit. Lett. 2021,
143, 50–57. [CrossRef]
13.
Zheng, H.; Zhong, X.; Huang, W.; Jiang, K.; Liu, W.; Wang, Z. Visible-Infrared Person Re-Identiﬁcation: A Comprehensive Survey
and a New Setting. Electronics 2022, 11, 454. [CrossRef]
14.
Munaro, M.; Basso, A.; Fossati, A.; Van Gool, L.; Menegatti, E. 3D reconstruction of freely moving persons for re-identiﬁcation
with a depth sensor. In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, Hong Kong, 31 May–7
June 2014; pp. 4512–4519. [CrossRef]
15.
Ding, S.; Lin, L.; Wang, G.; Chao, H. Deep feature learning with relative distance comparison for person re-identiﬁcation. Pattern
Recognit. 2015, 48, 2993–3003. [CrossRef]
16.
Zheng, L.; Shen, L.; Tian, L.; Wang, S.; Wang, J.; Tian, Q. Scalable person re-identiﬁcation: A benchmark. In Proceedings of the
IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision, Santiago, Chile, 7–13 December 2015; pp. 1116–1124.
17.
Jüngling, K.; Arens, M. Local feature based person reidentiﬁcation in infrared image sequences. In Proceedings of the IEEE
International Conference on Advanced Video and Signal Based Surveillance, Boston, MA, USA, 29 August–1 September 2010;
pp. 448–455. [CrossRef]
18.
Cho, Y.J.; Yoon, K.J. Improving person re-identiﬁcation via pose-aware multi-shot matching. In Proceedings of the IEEE
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Las Vegas, NV, USA, 27–30 June 2016; pp. 1354–1362.

Sensors 2023, 23, 1504
26 of 29
19.
Zhao, H.; Tian, M.; Sun, S.; Shao, J.; Yan, J.; Yi, S.; Wang, X.; Tang, X. Spindle net: Person re-identiﬁcation with human body region
guided feature decomposition and fusion. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition,
Honolulu, HI, USA, 21–26 July 2017; pp. 1077–1085.
20.
Sarfraz, M.S.; Schumann, A.; Eberle, A.; Stiefelhagen, R. A pose-sensitive embedding for person re-identiﬁcation with expanded
cross neighborhood re-ranking. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Salt
Lake City, UT, USA, 18–23 June 2018; pp. 420–429.
21.
Li, S.; Karanam, S.Y.; Li, R.J. Radke, Person re-identiﬁcation with discriminatively trained viewpoint invariant dictionaries.
In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision, Santiago, Chile, 7–13 December 2015; pp. 4516–4524.
22.
Bak, S.; Zaidenberg, S.; Boulay, B.; Bremond, F. Improving person re-identiﬁcation by viewpoint cues. In Proceedings of the
IEEE International Conference on Advanced Video and Signal Based Surveillance, Seoul, Republic of Korea, 26–29 August 2014;
pp. 175–180. [CrossRef]
23.
Huang, H.; Li, D.; Zhang, Z.; Chen, X.; Huang, K. Adversarially occluded samples for person re-identiﬁcation. In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Salt Lake City, UT, USA, 18–23 June 2018; pp. 5098–5107.
24.
Hou, R.; Ma, B.; Chang, H.; Gu, X.; Shan, S.; Chen, X. Vrstc: Occlusion-free video person re-identiﬁcation. In Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Long Beach, CA, USA, 15–20 June 2019; pp. 7183–7192.
25.
Wang, S.; Liu, R.; Li, H.; Qi, G.; Yu, Z. Occluded Person Re-Identiﬁcation via Defending Against Attacks From Obstacles. IEEE
Trans. Inf. Secur. 2023, 18, 147–161. [CrossRef]
26.
Huang, Y.; Zha, Z.J.; Fu, X.; Zhang, W. Illumination-invariant person re-identiﬁcation. In Proceedings of the 27th ACM
International Conference on Multimedia, Nice, France, 21–25 October 2019; pp. 365–373. [CrossRef]
27.
Song, C.; Huang, Y.; Ouyang, W.; Wang, L. Mask-guided contrastive attention model for person re-identiﬁcation. In Proceed-
ings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Salt Lake City, UT, USA, 18–23 June 2018;
pp. 1179–1188.
28.
Chen, D.; Zhang, S.; Ouyang, W.; Yang, J.; Tai, Y. Person search via a mask-guided two-stream cnn model. In Proceedings of the
European Conference on Computer Vision, Munich, Germany, 8–14 September 2018; pp. 734–750.
29.
Cai, H.; Wang, Z.; Cheng, J. Multi-scale body-part mask guided attention for person re-identiﬁcation. In Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Long Beach, CA, USA, 15–20 June 2019.
30.
Li, X.; Zheng, W.S.; Wang, X.; Xiang, T.; Gong, S. Multi-scale learning for low-resolution person re-identiﬁcation. In Proceedings
of the IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision, Santiago, Chile, 7–13 December 2015; pp. 3765–3773.
31.
Wang, Y.; Wang, L.; You, Y.; Zou, X.; Chen, V.; Li, S.; Huang, G.; Hariharan, B.; Weinberger, K.Q. Resource aware person
re-identiﬁcation across multiple resolutions. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, Salt Lake City, UT, USA, 18–23 June 2018; pp. 8042–8051.
32.
Khan, S.U.; Haq, I.U.; Khan, N.; Muhammad, K.; Hijji, M.; Baik, S.W. Learning to rank: An intelligent system for person
reidentiﬁcation. Int. J. Intell. Syst. 2022, 39, 5924–5948. [CrossRef]
33.
Liu, H.; Hu, L.; Ma, L. Online RGB–D person re-identification based on metric model update. CAAI Trans. Intell. Technol. 2017, 2, 48–55.
[CrossRef]
34.
Wu, A.; Zheng, W.S.; Lai, J.H. Robust depth-based person re-identiﬁcation. IEEE Trans. Image Process. 2017, 26, 2588–2603.
[CrossRef]
35.
Munaro, M.; Fossati, A.; Basso, A.; Menegatti, E.; Van Gool, L. One-shot person re-identiﬁcation with a consumer depth camera.
In Advances in Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition; Gong, S., Cristani, M., Yan, S., Loy, C., Eds.; Person Re-Identiﬁcation;
Springer: London, UK, 2014; pp. 161–181. [CrossRef]
36.
Imani, Z.; Soltanizadeh, H. Person reidentiﬁcation using local pattern descriptors and anthropometric measures from videos of
kinect sensor. IEEE Sens. J. 2016, 16, 6227–6238. [CrossRef]
37.
Ren, L.; Lu, J.; Feng, J.; Zhou, J. Multi-modal uniform deep learning for RGB–D person re-identiﬁcation. Pattern Recognit. 2017,
72, 446–457. [CrossRef]
38.
Ren, L.; Lu, J.; Feng, J.; Zhou, J. Uniform and variational deep learning for RGB–D object recognition and person re-identiﬁcation.
IEEE Trans. Image Process. 2019, 28, 4970–4983. [CrossRef]
39.
Haque, A.; Alahi, A.; Li, F.-F. Recurrent attention models for depth-based person identiﬁcation. In Proceedings of the IEEE
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Las Vegas, NV, USA, 27–30 June 2016; pp. 1229–1238.
40.
Lejbolle, A.R.; Nasrollahi, K.; Krogh, B.; Moeslund, T.B. Multimodal neural network for overhead person re-identification.
In Proceedings of the International Conference of the Biometrics Special Interest Group, Darmstadt, Germany, 20–22 September 2017;
pp. 1–5. [CrossRef]
41.
Pala, F.; Satta, R.; Fumera, G.; Roli, F. Multimodal person reidentiﬁcation using RGB–D cameras. IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. Video
Technol. 2015, 26, 788–799. [CrossRef]
42.
Uddin, M.K.; Lam, A.; Fukuda, H.; Kobayashi, Y.; Kuno, Y. Fusion in Dissimilarity Space for RGB–D Person Re-identiﬁcation.
Array 2021, 12, 100089. [CrossRef]
43.
Liciotti, D.; Paolanti, M.; Frontoni, E.; Mancini, A.; Zingaretti, P. Person re-identiﬁcation dataset with rgb-d camera in a top-view
conﬁguration. In Video Analytics. Face and Facial Expression Recognition and Audience Measurement; Lecture Notes in Computer
Science; Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2016; Volume 10165, pp. 1–11. [CrossRef]

Sensors 2023, 23, 1504
27 of 29
44.
Mogelmose, A.; Bahnsen, C.; Moeslund, T.; Clapés, A.; Escalera, S. Tri-modal person re-identiﬁcation with rgb, depth and thermal
features. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Workshops, Portland, OR, USA,
23–28 June 2013; pp. 301–307.
45.
Wu, A.; Zheng, W.S.; Yu, H.X.; Gong, S.; Lai, J. RGB-infrared cross-modality person re-identiﬁcation. In Proceedings of the IEEE
International Conference on Computer Vision, Venice, Italy, 22–29 October 2017; pp. 5380–5389.
46.
Nguyen, D.T.; Hong, H.G.; Kim, K.W.; Park, K.R. Person recognition system based on a combination of body images from visible
light and thermal cameras. Sensors 2017, 17, 605. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
47.
Lejbolle, A.R.; Krogh, B.; Nasrollahi, K.; Moeslund, T.B. Attention in multimodal neural networks for person re-identiﬁcation. In
Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Workshops, Salt Lake City, UT, USA, 18–23
June 2018; pp. 179–187.
48.
Uddin, M.K.; Lam, A.; Fukuda, H.; Kobayashi, Y.; Kuno, Y. Depth Guided Attention for Person Re-identiﬁcation. In Intelligent
Computing Methodologies; Lecture Notes in Computer Science; Huang, D.S., Premaratne, P., Eds.; Springer: Cham, Switzerland,
2020; Volume 12465, pp. 110–120. [CrossRef]
49.
Zhuo, J.; Zhu, J.; Lai, J.; Xie, X. Person re-identiﬁcation on heterogeneous camera network. In CCF Chinese Conference on Computer
Vision; Communications in Computer and Information Science; Springer: Singapore, 2017; Volume 773, pp. 280–291. [CrossRef]
50.
Uddin, M.K.; Lam, A.; Fukuda, H.; Kobayashi, Y.; Kuno, Y. Exploiting Local Shape Information for Cross-Modal Person Re-
identiﬁcation. In Intelligent Computing Methodologies; Lecture Notes in Computer Science; Huang, D.S., Huang, Z.K., Hussain, A.,
Eds.; Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2019; Volume 11645, pp. 74–85. [CrossRef]
51.
Hafner, F.M.; Bhuiyan, A.; Kooij, J.F.; Granger, E. RGB-depth cross-modal person re-identiﬁcation. In Proceedings of the 16th
IEEE International Conference on Advanced Video and Signal Based Surveillance, Taipei, Taiwan, 18–21 September 2019; pp. 1–8.
[CrossRef]
52.
Hafner, F.M.; Bhuiyan, A.; Kooij, J.F.; Granger, E. Cross-modal distillation for RGB-depth person re-identiﬁcation. Comput. Vis.
Image Underst. 2022, 216, 103352. [CrossRef]
53.
Wu, J.; Jiang, J.; Qi, M.; Chen, C.; Zhang, J. An End-to-end Heterogeneous Restraint Network for RGB–D Cross-modal Person
Re-identiﬁcation. ACM Trans. Multimed. Comput. Commun. Appl. 2022, 18, 1–22. [CrossRef]
54.
Co¸sar, S.; Bellotto, N. Human Re-identiﬁcation with a robot thermal camera using entropy-based sampling. J. Intell. Robot. Syst.
2020, 98, 85–102. [CrossRef]
55.
Imani, Z.; Soltanizadeh, H.; Orouji, A.A. Short-term person re-identiﬁcation using rgb, depth and skeleton information of rgb-d
sensors. Iran. J. Sci. Technol. Trans. Electr. Eng. 2020, 44, 669–681. [CrossRef]
56.
Uddin, M.K.; Bhuiyan, A.; Hasan, M. Fusion in Dissimilarity Space between RGB–D and Skeleton for Person Re-identiﬁcation.
Int. J. Innov. Technol. Explor. Eng. 2021, 10, 69–75. [CrossRef]
57.
Martini, M.; Paolanti, M.; Frontoni, E. Open-World Person Re-Identiﬁcation with RGBD Camera in Top-View Conﬁguration for
Retail Applications. IEEE Access 2020, 8, 67756–67765. [CrossRef]
58.
Barbosa, I.B.; Cristani, M.; Del Bue, A.; Bazzani, L.; Murino, V. Re-identiﬁcation with RGB–D Sensors. In Computer Vision—ECCV
2012; Lecture Notes in Computer Science; Fusiello, A., Murino, V., Cucchiara, R., Eds.; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany,
2012; Volume 7583, pp. 433–442. [CrossRef]
59.
Patruno, C.; Marani, R.; Cicirelli, G.; Stella, E.; D’Orazio, T. People re-identiﬁcation using skeleton standard posture and color
descriptors from RGB–D data. Pattern Recognit. 2019, 89, 77–90. [CrossRef]
60.
Farenzena, M.; Bazzani, L.; Perina, A.; Murino, V.; Cristani, M. Person re-identiﬁcation by symmetry-driven accumulation of
local features. In Proceedings of the 2010 IEEE Computer Society Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, San
Francisco, CA, USA, 13–18 June 2010; pp. 2360–2367. [CrossRef]
61.
Ma, B.; Su, Y.; Jurie, F. Covariance descriptor based on bio-inspired features for person re-identiﬁcation and face veriﬁcation.
Image Vis. Comput. 2014, 32, 379–390. [CrossRef]
62.
Satta, R.; Fumera, G.; Roli, F.; Cristani, M.; Murino, V. A Multiple Component Matching Framework for Person Re-identiﬁcation.
In Image Analysis and Processing; Lecture Notes in Computer Science; Maino, G., Foresti, G.L., Eds.; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg,
Germany, 2011; Volume 6979, pp. 140–149. [CrossRef]
63.
Imani, Z.; Soltanizadeh, H. Histogram of the node strength and histogram of the edge weight: Two new features for RGB–D
person re-identiﬁcation. Sci. China Inf. Sci. 2018, 61, 092108. [CrossRef]
64.
Bay, H.; Ess, A.; Tuytelaars, T.; Van Gool, L. Speeded-up robust features (SURF). Comput. Vis. Image Underst. 2008, 110, 346–359.
[CrossRef]
65.
Ristani, E.; Tomasi, C. Features for multi-target multi-camera tracking and re-identiﬁcation. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Salt Lake City, UT, USA, 18–23 June 2018; pp. 6036–6046.
66.
Pang, L.; Wang, Y.; Song, Y.Z.; Huang, T.; Tian, Y. Cross-domain adversarial feature learning for sketch re-identiﬁcation. In
Proceedings of the 26th ACM International Conference on Multimedia, Seoul, Republic of Korea, 22–26 October 2018; pp. 609–617.
[CrossRef]
67.
Feng, Z.; Lai, J.; Xie, X. Learning Modality-Speciﬁc Representations for Visible-Infrared Person Re-Identiﬁcation. IEEE Trans.
Image Process. 2020, 29, 579–590. [CrossRef] [PubMed]

Sensors 2023, 23, 1504
28 of 29
68.
Lu, Y.; Wu, Y.; Liu, B.; Zhang, T.; Li, B.; Chu, Q.; Yu, N. Cross-Modality Person Re-Identiﬁcation With Shared-Speciﬁc Feature
Transfer. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Seattle, WA, USA, 13–19
June 2020; pp. 13376–13386.
69.
Ye, M.; Lan, X.; Leng, Q.; Shen, J. Cross-Modality Person Re-Identiﬁcation via Modality-Aware Collaborative Ensemble Learning.
IEEE Trans. Image Process. 2020, 29, 9387–9399. [CrossRef]
70.
Wei, X.; Li, D.; Hong, X.; Ke, W.; Gong, Y. Co-Attentive Lifting for Infrared-Visible Person Re-Identiﬁcation. In Proceedings of the
28th ACM International Conference on Multimedia, Seattle, WA, USA, 12–16 October 2020; pp. 1028–1037.
71.
Wang, H.; Zhao, J.; Zhou, Y.; Yao, R.; Chen, Y.; Chen, S. AMC-Net: Attentive modality-consistent network for visible-infrared
person re-identiﬁcation. Neurocomputing 2021, 463, 226–236. [CrossRef]
72.
Pu, N.; Chen, W.; Liu, Y.; Bakker, E.M.; Lew, M.S. Dual Gaussian-based Variational Subspace Disentanglement for Visible-Infrared
Person Re-Identiﬁcation. In Proceedings of the 28th ACM International Conference on Multimedia, Seattle, WA, USA, 12–16
October 2020; pp. 2149–2158.
73.
Kansal, K.; Subramanyam, A.V.; Wang, Z.; Satoh, S. SDL: Spectrum-Disentangled Representation Learning for Visible-Infrared
Person Re-Identiﬁcation. IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. Video Technol. 2020, 30, 3422–3432. [CrossRef]
74.
Hao, Y.; Wang, N.; Gao, X.; Li, J.; Wang, X. Dual-alignment Feature Embedding for Cross-modality Person Re-identiﬁcation. In
Proceedings of the 27th ACM International Conference on Multimedia, Nice, France, 21–25 October 2019; pp. 57–65.
75.
Wei, Z.; Yang, X.; Wang, N.; Song, B.; Gao, X. ABP: Adaptive Body Partition Model For Visible Infrared Person Re-Identification. In
Proceedings of the 2020 IEEE International Conference on Multimedia and Expo (ICME 2020), London, UK, 6–10 July 2020; pp. 1–6.
76.
Liu, S.; Zhang, J. Local Alignment Deep Network for Infrared-Visible Cross-Modal Person Re-identiﬁcation in 6G-Enabled
Internet of Things. IEEE Internet Things J. 2020, 8, 15170–15179. [CrossRef]
77.
Ye, M.; Shen, J.; Crandall, D.J.; Shao, L.; Luo, J. Dynamic Dual-Attentive Aggregation Learning for Visible-Infrared Person Re-
identification. In Proceedings of the 2020 16th European Conference Computer Vision, Glasgow, UK, 23–28 August 2020; pp. 229–247.
78.
Wang, P.; Zhao, Z.; Su, F.; Zhao, Y.; Wang, H.; Yang, L.; Li, Y. Deep Multi-Patch Matching Network for Visible Thermal Person
Re-Identiﬁcation. IEEE Trans. Multimed. 2021, 23, 1474–1488. [CrossRef]
79.
Wei, Z.; Yang, X.; Wang, N.; Gao, X. Flexible Body Partition-Based Adversarial Learning for Visible Infrared Person ReIdentiﬁcation.
IEEE Trans. Neural Netw. Learn. Syst. 2022, 33, 4676–4687. [CrossRef]
80.
Zhang, L.; Du, G.; Liu, F.; Tu, H.; Shu, X. Global-Local Multiple Granularity Learning for Cross-Modality Visible-Infrared Person
Reidentiﬁcation. IEEE Trans. Neural Netw. Learn. Syst. 2021, 1–11. [CrossRef]
81.
Dai, H.; Xie, Q.; Li, J.; Ma, Y.; Li, L.; Liu, Y. Visible-infrared Person Re-identiﬁcation with Human Body Parts Assistance. In
Proceedings of the 2021 International Conference on Multimedia Retrieval, Taipei, Taiwan, 21–24 August 2021; pp. 631–637.
82.
Ye, M.; Lan, X.; Li, J.; Yuen, P.C. Hierarchical Discriminative Learning for Visible Thermal Person Re-Identiﬁcation. In Proceedings
of the 2018 32th AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence, New Orleans, LA, USA, 2–7 February 2018; pp. 7501–7508.
83.
Liu, H.; Tan, X.; Zhou, X. Parameters Sharing Exploration and Hetero-Center based Triplet Loss for Visible-Thermal Person
Re-Identiﬁcation. IEEE Trans. Multimed. 2020, 23, 4414–4425. [CrossRef]
84.
Ye, H.; Liu, H.; Meng, F.; Li, X. Bi-Directional Exponential Angular Triplet Loss for visible-Infrared Person Re-Identiﬁcation. IEEE
Trans. Image Process. 2021, 30, 1583–1595. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
85.
Cai, X.; Liu, L.; Zhu, L.; Zhang, H. Dual-modality hard mining triplet-center loss for visible infrared person re-identiﬁcation.
Knowl. Based Syst. 2021, 215, 106772. [CrossRef]
86.
Zhang, Q.; Lai, J.; Xie, X. Learning Modal-Invariant Angular Metric by Cyclic Projection Network for VIS-NIR Person ReIdentiﬁ-
cation. IEEE Trans. Image Process. 2021, 30, 8019–8803. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
87.
Hao, Y.; Wang, N.; Li, J.; Gao, X. HSME: Hypersphere Manifold Embedding for Visible Thermal Person Re-Identiﬁcation. In
Proceedings of the 2019 33th AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence, Honolulu, HI, USA, 27 January–1 February 2019;
pp. 8385–8392.
88.
Zhong, X.; Lu, T.; Huang, W.; Yuan, J.; Liu, W.; Lin, C. Visible-infrared Person Re-identiﬁcation via Colorization-based Siamese
Generative Adversarial Network. In Proceedings of the 2020 ACM International Conference Multimedia Retrieval, Dublin,
Ireland, 8–11 June 2020; pp. 421–427.
89.
Kniaz, V.V.; Knyaz, V.A.; Hladuvka, J.; Kropatsch, W.G.; Mizginov, V. ThermalGAN: Multimodal Color-to-Thermal Image
Translation for Person Re-identiﬁcation in Multispectral Dataset. In Proceedings of the 2018 European Conference Computer
Vision Workshops, Munich, Germany, 8–14 September 2018; pp. 606–624.
90.
Liu, H.; Ma, S.; Xia, D.; Li, S. SFANet: A Spectrum-Aware Feature Augmentation Network for Visible-Infrared Person ReIdentiﬁ-
cation. IEEE Trans. Neural Netw. Learn. Sys. 2021, 1–14. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
91.
Wang, Z.; Wang, Z.; Zheng, Y.; Chuang, Y.; Satoh, S. Learning to Reduce Dual-Level Discrepancy for Infrared-Visible Person
Re-Identiﬁcation. In Proceedings of the 2019 IEEE/CVF Conference Computer Vision Pattern Recognition, Long Beach, CA, USA,
16–20 June 2019; pp. 618–626.
92.
Choi, S.; Lee, S.; Kim, Y.; Kim, T.; Kim, C. Hi-CMD: Hierarchical Cross-Modality Disentanglement for Visible-Infrared Person
Re-Identiﬁcation. In Proceedings of the2020 IEEE/CVF Conference Computer Vision Pattern Recognition, Seattle, WA, USA,
13–19 June 2020; pp. 10254–10263.

Sensors 2023, 23, 1504
29 of 29
93.
Wang, G.; Zhang, T.; Yang, Y.; Cheng, J.; Chang, J.; Liang, X.; Hou, Z. Cross-Modality Paired-Images Generation for RGB-Infrared
Person Re-Identiﬁcation. In Proceedings of the 2020 34th AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence, New York, NY, USA, 7–12
February 2020; pp. 12144–12151.
94.
Hu, B.; Liu, J.; Zha, Z.J. Adversarial Disentanglement and Correlation Network for RGB-Infrared Person Re-Identiﬁcation. In
Proceedings of the 2021 IEEE International Conference on Multimedia Expo, Shenzhen, China, 5–9 July 2021.
95.
Li, D.; Wei, X.; Hong, X.; Gong, Y. Infrared-Visible Cross-Modal Person Re-Identiﬁcation with an X Modality. In Proceedings of
the 2020 34th AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence, New York, NY, USA, 7–12 February 2020; pp. 4610–4617.
96.
Huang, Y.; Wu, Q.; Xu, J.; Zhong, Y.; Zhang, P.; Zhang, Z. Alleviating Modality Bias Training for Infrared-Visible Person
Re-Identiﬁcation. IEEE Trans. Multimed. 2021, 24, 1570–1582. [CrossRef]
97.
Wei, Z.; Yang, X.; Wang, N.; Gao, X. Syncretic Modality Collaborative Learning for Visible Infrared Person Re-Identiﬁcation. In
Proceedings of the 2021 IEEE/CVF International Conference Computer Vision, Virtual, 11–17 October 2021.
98.
Zhang, Y.; Yan, Y.; Lu, Y.; Wang, H. Towards a Uniﬁed Middle Modality Learning for Visible-Infrared Person Re-Identiﬁcation. In
Proceedings of the 2021 ACM International Conference Multimedia, Chengdu, China, 20–24 October 2021; pp. 788–796.
99.
CASIA Gait Database. Available online: http://www.cbsr.ia.ac.cn/english/Gait%20Databases.asp (accessed on 12 November
2022).
100. Intel RealSense Depth Camera. Available online: https://www.intelrealsense.com/depth-camera-d435/ (accessed on 20 Novem-
ber 2022).
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
