IFAC PapersOnLine 55-32 (2022) 119–123
ScienceDirect
ScienceDirect
Available online at www.sciencedirect.com
2405-8963 Copyright © 2022 The Authors. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license.
Peer review under responsibility of International Federation of Automatic Control.
10.1016/j.ifacol.2022.11.125
Copyright © 2022 The Authors. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license 
(https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/)
1. INTRODUCTION 
The global market of greenhouse horticulture is expected to 
double in the next five years (IMARC, 2022). Greenhouse 
horticulture is extremely important to the economies of 
several European countries including the Netherlands where 
an estimated 105 km2 of the country is covered in 
greenhouses and that number is expected to grow (CBS, 
2022). As the greenhouse industry expands, the adoption and 
retention of labour are two major bottlenecks of the industry. 
Work in greenhouses is hard, the climate is hot and requires 
expertise to correctly care and harvest the various plants 
grown indoors. Nowadays many new, un-skilled workers find 
a job in the greenhouse industry. Training these newcomers 
forms a considerable workload for greenhouse owners.  
For greenhouse workers, assessing ripeness and determining 
the optimum time to harvest a product are major important 
skills to learn. In tomato crops, the correct time to pick a 
tomato is based on a combination of factors including colour, 
texture, and weight of the tomato. These factors are 
multimodal and have made automation of ripeness detection 
difficult in the past. There is a need for new tools and 
methodologies that can help train the next generation of 
greenhouse workers and improve their job quality and 
efficiency.  
Augmented Reality (AR) is a hands-free solution that allows 
breeders, growers and personnel to interact intuitively with 
their crops and data. AR has been developed over the last 30 
years and is a system that allows virtual objects to be placed 
in the real world. While initially limited due to the 
computational requirements of AR, the advent of 
smartphones, processing power and new more user friendly 
wearable peripherals  has made AR applications more 
common. With the development of the Google glass in 2013, 
a new wave of AR headsets has entered the market with the 
added benefit of being handsfree. 
In this paper we describe a tool we are developing to assist 
the grower. We used a HoloLens 2 headset (Microsoft) and 
worked with partners in tomato greenhouses in the 
Netherlands. We first developed the software and hardware 
and then validated it efficacy of our technique on multiple 
tomato varieties.  
2. MATERIALS AND METHODS 
2.1 Weight & Volume estimation 
Weight is a key component to determining ripeness in 
tomatoes. However, weight is difficult to measure per tomato, 
taking additional labour to weigh each tomato from a crop. 
Furthermore, weighing can only be done after harvest. A 
better solution would be to estimate the weight of tomatoes 
using imaging, prior to harvesting, and leaving the option for 
not harvesting unripe fruits. Depending on growth conditions, 
tomatoes consist of between 92% and 95% water (Johnson, 
1992). This water makes up most of the mass of the tomato, 
leading to a direct correlation between the weight and the 
volume. For this correlation, several papers have proposed 
different relations, e.g.  Lee (2020) used machine learning 
based on the visible traits of tomatoes in images to estimate 
volume accurately but was limited by occlusion. Nyalala 
(2019) found that a power equation fit the relationship 
between volume and mass well, but only estimated the 
volume of the tomato using voxels from their depth camera. 
In both cases it was clear that there is a relationship between 
the volume and mass for the majority of tomato varieties. 
Volume estimation from 2D images has also been explored in 
recent years. Du and Sun (2020) showed the volume of ham 
can be estimated from RGB images, and UluiŞik et al. (2018) 
showed that it is possible to estimate the volume of tomatoes 
using simple geometric modelling. Two dimensional 
horizontal and vertical cross sections of the fruit can be used 
to find the diameters of each projection. This will result in 
Keywords: HoloLens, Depth imaging, Volume estimation, Handsfree measurement 
*Wageningen University & Research, Wageningen, The Netherlands 
(e-mail: {joseph.peller, tim.vandaalen, jos.balendonck}@wur.nl) 
Abstract: There is a need for handsfree devices in greenhouses for training and harvesting assistance. 
Augmented Reality could offer this in the near future. We showed that it is possible to detect ripeness 
characteristics of tomatoes using the 3D scanning capabilities of the HoloLens. We verified this in an 
experimental setup with multiple tomato varieties. Our results show the possibilities and problems of this 
technique for future development. 
Tim van Daalen*, Joseph Peller*, Jos Balendonck* 
 
Determining fresh tomato weight using depth images from an AR headset 

120	
Tim van Daalen  et al. / IFAC PapersOnLine 55-32 (2022) 119–123
 
 
four axis  of which two are the same diameter from different 
projections.  The volume of an ellipsoid can be computed as 
follows:  
𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣𝑣= 
 
 𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴   ,                             (1) 
where A, B, and C are the diameters of the constituent 
ellipses, as shown in figure 1. 
 
Fig 1.  An example of an ellipsoid with diameter A, B, and C. 
 
2.2 Image acquisition 
AR headsets like the HoloLens 2 are typically used to create 
an augmented experience. They are designed to place virtual 
holograms in a real room, register user inputs and stream live 
video data. However, the HoloLens 2 has multiple sensors 
and cameras onboard that capture infrared and RGB images, 
depth maps, and magnetic fields that are normally locked 
from the developer. To use the headset as a measurement 
tool, more control over these sensors was needed. 
In 2020, Microsoft gave direct access to the raw sensor 
streams through their Research Mode API (Ungureanu et al., 
2020). This allowed us to write a program that used the short 
range, high resolution articulated hand-tracking (AHAT) 
depth camera and RGB camera of the Hololens 2 for the 
volume estimation. The depth camera returns both a depth 
and active brightness image. When the program starts, it 
activates the cameras. Voice commands and gestures can then 
be used to save images on the HoloLens. The depth and 
active brightness images are combined into a point cloud on 
an edge computer. The density of the point clouds was 50k 
voxels and covered a distance from 10 cm to 1 m from the 
HoloLens. At minimum distance from the camera, we had a 
feature resolution of 241 voxels/cm2 and at maximum 
distance 2 voxels/cm2. 
 
2.3 Volume Verification Trial 
To verify that our program was working accurately we 
designed a measurement trial. Tomatoes were imaged in 2020 
at two demo greenhouses in the Netherlands (Syngenta, 
Tomato Vision; Letsgrow, Tomato World). Both trials were 
conducted with multiple varieties, from large beef tomatoes 
down to small cherries. In total 10 varieties were imaged, with 
at least 10 tomatoes per variety. Examples of each variety are 
shown in image 2. 
 
Fig 2. Examples of the images tomato varieties. 
 
The tomatoes were first weighed using a standard scale. The 
tomatoes were then submerged in a graduated cylinder and 
held just below the surface using a pen. The displacement of 
the water was recorded as the true volume of each tomato.  
Tomatoes were then imaged one after another using the 
HoloLens. The HoloLens was placed directly above the tomato 
on the table and each tomato was imaged in two positions, 
laying horizontally, and mounted vertically. The Hololens was 
held at roughly one arm length from the tomato between 0.5 m 
and 1 m.  
After the trials, the images were downloaded from the 
HoloLens and saved with their respective weights for later 
analysis. Segmentation of the tomatoes in the point cloud were 
accomplished using the active brightness values of the point 
cloud. As seen in Fig. 3, the flat tabletop provided good 
contrast with the tomato and manual segmentations were 
performed.  
A selection of 32 tomatoes were segmented by hand and their 
volumes computed using the method described in 2.1. 

	
Tim van Daalen  et al. / IFAC PapersOnLine 55-32 (2022) 119–123	
121
 
 
 
 
Fig 3. Top, active brightness point cloud with a tomato in the 
centre and two cups on the sides. Bottom left, segmented 
tomato. Bottom right, rendered top view of the contour and 
ellipse fit in red. 
 
3. RESULTS 
3.1 Density measurements 
The weight and volume of all 116 tomatoes derived through 
submersion is plotted in figure 4. The trend appeared linear, 
so a linear regression was performed to show the relation 
between weight and volume. The derived weight is shown in 
(2) and had an R2 value of 0.988. 
 
𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊          (2) 
 
 
 
Fig 4. Measured tomato weight versus submerged volume per   
           variety measured. 
 
 
 
 
3.2 Volume Comparison 
A subset of 32 tomatoes were segmented in the active 
brightness images. The tomatoes where manually segmented 
in these images and an exterior contour was created.  
 
As visible in figure 3 this segmentation is not perfect, due to 
the low density of points within the point cloud. To correct 
for this, an ellipse fit from the opencv library (Bradski, 2000) 
was performed. The function returns both the major and 
minor axis of the ellipse, which are two of the diameters of 
the ellipsoid shown in figure 1. The pixels are transformed 
into millimetres using the depth information and the ellipsoid 
volume computation described in section 2.1. 
 
The ellipsoidal volume was compared to the submerged 
volume as can be seen in Figure 5. Again, a linear relation 
seemed to exist between the ellipsoidal (Velli) and submerged 
volume (Vsub), and a linear regression was performed. The 
relationship is shown below and has an R² value of 0.964. 
Vsub = 1.509 * Velli - 10.607                    (3) 
 
Fig 5. The Computed elliptical volume versus Measured 
Volume. 
4. DISCUSSION 
The results of the density measurements indicate that the 
relationship between weight and volume is linear for these 
varieties. This is largely in line with literature, our R-Squared 
value is nearly the same as Nyalala et al. (2019) found with 
their power relation. We chose to use the linear function as it 
fits the data well and is less complex than the power 
function. It may be that this discrepancy with the literature 
was caused by the different tomato varieties investigated in 
this study. Nyalala et al. focused on cherries while we 
analysed multiple varieties. These varieties were some of the 
normal varieties grown in the Netherlands but do not include 

122	
Tim van Daalen  et al. / IFAC PapersOnLine 55-32 (2022) 119–123
 
 
exceptions such as hollow tomatoes which we expect will not 
follow the same trend. 
Because we compared two quantitative measurements in our 
volume comparison tests, we wanted to be sure there is no 
bias in the volume measured by the HoloLens. To check this 
a Bland Altman (BA) plot (Bland and Altman, 1986; 
Giavarina, 2015) was used to evaluate the two methods 
(figure 6). BA plots are used to identify systematic biases that 
may not be as apparent while using a least squares regression. 
In our case, the two measurements show a systematic 
underestimation of larger tomatoes compared to smaller ones.  
However, more importantly is the trend of the data in the BA 
plot. This shows that at small volume there is good 
agreement between the measures, but as volume increases the 
bias grows. In reviewing the data this appears to be caused by 
the more “squished” non elliptical shapes of larger tomatoes, 
as can be seen in figure 2. The single outlier in particular is 
due to the shape of the side ellipse encompassing an 
additional 20% area outside of the tomato.  
 
Fig 6.  Bland–Altman plot of the Measured and Computed   
          Volume. 
This is more than a little concerning since in this trial most 
tested varieties were roughly ellipsoidal. No tomato varieties 
such as Coeur de Boeufs or heavily ribbed varieties were 
included in the trials. Even for these varieties the results of 
our volume comparison show there is a difference between 
the volume recorded by the HoloLens and the volume derived 
through submersion. More tomatoes should be analysed to 
investigate this further and determine if variety specific 
models are necessary. A possible approach to this problem 
would be to use the shape of the tomato in each orientation to 
construct a 3D projection, from which the volume can be 
determined. This would eliminate the errors from the 
ellipsoidal fit for most symmetric tomatoes.  
 
The next step for this system is to implement a true 
segmentation network and test it in the greenhouse on 
tomatoes on the vine. Our original intention was to use the 
colour images provided by the HoloLens to segment the 
tomatoes from the canopy. Unfortunately, a software bug in 
the HoloLens prevented automatic segmentation, which 
meant our tests could only be conducted with a fixed 
background. Once the bug is fixed automatic segmentation of 
tomatoes will be accomplished by using the colour images 
with a neural network and then combining those annotations 
with the depth images to perform in greenhouse 
segmentation.  
 
To this end, the issue of orientation needs to be addressed. 
All tomatoes imaged were situated on a table post-harvest. 
The ellipsoidal method requires the user to photograph at 
least two sides of the tomato. While this is easy to perform 
post-harvest, it is challenging on the vine. The orientation of 
the tomato has to be detected first. A two images approach 
was used, which is more labour intensive than a single image 
approach.  
 
There are several possible solutions, such as continuous 
streaming to create a 3D object, or adding orientation as a 
class to the neural network. Another approach could be to 
determine per variety a correlation between the first and 
second diameters and the third. This was observed in our 
trial, and if it held true could mean an approximate volume 
could be determined by a single image in the greenhouse. But 
a larger dataset needs to be investigated to confirm this 
relationship first. 
 
5. CONCLUSION 
In this trial we created a system to perform handsfree tomato 
fruit weight measurements. By measuring the volume of the 
tomato using depth cameras built into the Microsoft 
HoloLens 2 the weight could be estimated. A determination 
of tomato density was performed. The computed volume 
from the HoloLens was found to have good agreement with 
the actual volume in the form of a linear relationship. This 
baseline shows the potential for hands free machine vision 
applications in the future and for further development with 
augmented reality systems.  
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 
The authors would like to extend thanks to Jos Ruizendaal, 
Anna Petropoulou, Arjan Vroegop, and Menno Sytsma from 
Wageningen University and Research for their assistance in 
this project and development of the HoloLens application. 
This work “Augmented horticulture – Understanding plants 
via augmented reality” was funded by the Dutch Topsector 
Tuinbouw en Uitgangsmaterialen (reference: TU18145). 
REFERENCES 
Bland, J. M., & Altman, D. (1986). Statistical methods for 
assessing agreement between two methods of clinical 
measurement. The lancet, 327(8476), 307-310. 
Bradski, G. (2000). The openCV library. Dr. Dobb's Journal: 
Software Tools for the Professional Programmer, 25(11), 
120-123. 

	
Tim van Daalen  et al. / IFAC PapersOnLine 55-32 (2022) 119–123	
123
 
 
CBS, (2022). Greenhouse horticulture by size class, 2021, 
Assessed (16-2-2022) https://www.cbs.nl/nl-
nl/maatwerk/2022/06/glastuinbouw-naar-omvangsklasse-
2021. 
Du, C. J., & Sun, D. W. (2006). Estimating the surface area 
and volume of ellipsoidal ham using computer vision. 
Journal of Food Engineering, 73(3), 260-268. 
Giavarina D, (2015). Understanding Bland Altman analysis. 
Biochemia medica, 25(2), 141–151. 
https://doi.org/10.11613/BM.2015.015. 
IMARC, (2022). Greenhouse Horticulture Market: Global 
Industry Trends, Share, Size, Growth, Opportunity and 
Forecast 2022-2027. Assessed (16-2-2022) 
https://www.imarcgroup.com/greenhouse-horticulture-
market. 
Johnson, R. W., Dixon, M. A., & Lee, D. R. (1992). Water 
relations of the tomato during fruit growth. Plant, Cell & 
Environment, 15(8), 947-953.  
Lee, J., Nazki, H., Baek, J., Hong, Y., & Lee, M. (2020). 
Artificial intelligence approach for tomato detection and mass 
estimation in precision agriculture. Sustainability, 12(21), 
9138.  
Nyalala, I., Okinda, C., Nyalala, L., Makange, N., Chao, Q., 
Chao, L., Yousaf K. & Chen, K. (2019). Tomato volume and 
mass estimation using computer vision and machine learning 
algorithms: Cherry tomato model. Journal of Food 
Engineering, 263, 288-298. 
Uluişik, S., Yildiz, F., & Özdemİr, A. T. (2018). Image 
processing based machine vision system for tomato volume 
estimation. In 2018 Electric Electronics, Computer Science, 
Biomedical Engineerings' Meeting (EBBT),  pp. 1-4, doi: 
10.1109/EBBT.2018.8391460. 
Ungureanu, D., Bogo, F., Galliani, S., Sama, P., Duan, X., 
Meekhof, C., Stühmer J., Chashman T.J., Tekin B., 
Schönberger J.L., Olszta P. & Pollefeys, M. (2020). 
HoloLens 2 research mode as a tool for computer vision 
research. arXiv preprint arXiv:2008.11239. 
