 
 
 
 
Agronomy 2022, 12, 1464. https://doi.org/10.3390/agronomy12061464 
www.mdpi.com/journal/agronomy 
Article 
Comparing a New Non-Invasive Vineyard Yield Estimation  
Approach Based on Image Analysis with Manual  
Sample-Based Methods 
Gonçalo Victorino 1,2, Ricardo P. Braga 1, José Santos-Victor 2 and Carlos M. Lopes 1,* 
1 Linking Landscape, Environment, Agriculture and Food (LEAF), Instituto Superior de Agronomia, 
Universidade de Lisboa, Tapada da Ajuda, 1349-017 Lisbon, Portugal; gvictorino@isa.ulisboa.pt (G.V.); 
ricardobraga@isa.ulisboa.pt (R.P.B.) 
2 Institute for Systems and Robotics-Lisboa (ISR), Instituto Superior Técnico, Universidade de Lisboa, 
Avenida Rovisco Pais, 1049-001 Lisbon, Portugal; jasv@isr.tecnico.ulisboa.pt 
* Correspondent author: carlosmlopes@isa.ulisboa.pt 
Abstract: Manual vineyard yield estimation approaches are easy to use and can provide relevant 
information at early stages of plant development. However, such methods are subject to spatial and 
temporal variability as they are sample-based and dependent on historical data. The present work 
aims at comparing the accuracy of a new non-invasive and multicultivar, image-based yield 
estimation approach with a manual method. Non-disturbed grapevine images were collected from 
six cultivars, at three vineyard plots in Portugal, at the very beginning of veraison, in a total of 213 
images. A stepwise regression model was used to select the most appropriate set of variables to 
predict the yield. A combination of derived variables was obtained that included visible bunch area, 
estimated total bunch area, perimeter, visible berry number and bunch compactness. The model 
achieved an R2 = 0.86 on the validation set. The image-based yield estimates outperformed manual 
ones on five out of six cultivar data sets, with most estimates achieving absolute errors below 10%. 
Higher errors were observed on vines with denser canopies. The studied approach has the potential 
to be fully automated and used across whole vineyards while being able to surpass most bunch 
occlusions by leaves. 
Keywords: grapevine yield prediction; bunch occlusion; proximal sensing; grape pixels; bunch 
compactness 
 
1. Introduction 
The capacity to accurately estimate the yield of a vineyard in the early stages of 
development can be extremely advantageous for the winegrower, with impacts on the 
whole vine and wine production chain. In the vineyard, it can help plan strategies of grape 
thinning as a yield regulation practice or to plan harvest in terms of logistics, scheduling, 
workforce and machinery requirements [1,2]. In the cellar, it helps planning for tank space 
allocation, crusher intake scheduling and oenological products. Furthermore, it provides 
advantages in terms of marketing and wine stock management [3]. Current conventional 
methods of yield estimation consist of manually sampling grapevine yield components 
using randomized vine segments in the field [4]. This sampling can be performed at 
various phenological stages, and yield potential can be estimated using historical data 
(e.g., average bunch weight at harvest). Early forecasts are important and can help the 
winegrower adopt strategies to adjust their production in that season [5]. However, if 
performed too early, yield estimation can be inaccurate as there are numerous factors, 
such as climatic events and other abiotic and biotic stresses, that can affect yield 
components after the estimation date. Therefore, conventional yield estimates are usually 
Citation: Victorino, G.; Braga, R.P.; 
Santos-Victor, J.; Lopes, C.M.  
Comparing a New Non-Invasive 
Vineyard Yield Estimation  
Approach Based on Image Analysis 
with Manual Sample-Based  
Methods. Agronomy 2022, 12, 1464. 
https://doi.org/10.3390/ 
agronomy12061464 
Academic Editors: Hernâni Gerós 
and Natacha Fontes 
Received: 17 May 2022 
Accepted: 14 June 2022 
Published: 18 June 2022 
Publisher’s 
Note: 
MDPI 
stays 
neutral with regard to jurisdictional 
claims in published maps and 
institutional affiliations. 
 
Copyright: © 2022 by the authors. 
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. 
This article is an open access article 
distributed under the terms and 
conditions of the Creative Commons 
Attribution 
(CC 
BY) 
license 
(https://creativecommons.org/license
s/by/4.0/). 

Agronomy 2022, 12, 1464 
2 of 21 
 
 
performed close to the veraison phenological stage (BBCH 81; [6]) and generalized for the 
whole vineyard plot [7]. This method, described in Equation 1, is easy to perform and 
independent of any technology, as it is based only on historical bunch weight and on 
bunch counts, a yield component that can explain, on average, about 60% of the total yield 
variation [8]. It allows for early estimations, as bunch counts can be performed before fruit 
set. However, the dependency on historical data regarding bunch weight at harvest is a 
disadvantage of this method. An alternative manual method consists of weighing a 
sample of bunches at the lag phase (just before veraison) while considering a growth factor 
until full maturation (Equation (2)). Berry lag phase is the phenological stage just before 
the onset of the veraison stage (between BBCH 79 and 81), corresponding to the phase 
where berry growth slows down as seeds begin to harden. Either the lag phase or the 
veraison phenological stage are stages not far from harvest, presenting a lower risk of 
unpredictable events but early enough to allow the farmer to make use of most adaptation 
strategies mentioned above. However, both of these manual methods are dependent on 
manual counting or sampling in the field, making them sensitive to spatial variability. 
These tasks require a significant amount of labor, especially in highly variable vineyards 
where a higher number of samples is required for an accurate yield estimation [9,10]. 
Moreover, the lag phase method, apart from being based on destructive samples, is 
dependent on a historical berry growth factor, which is largely affected by growth 
conditions, cultivar and management practices [11–13]. 
Yield ൬kg
ha൰= Nº bunches
vine
× Bunch weight harvest (kg) ×  Nº vines
ha
 
(1)
Yield ൬kg
ha൰= Nº bunches
vine
× Bunch weight lag phase (kg) × Growth fact × Nº vines
ha
 
(2)
where the growth factor consists of the ratio between bunch weight at the lag phase and 
at harvest (historical data). Manual yield estimation methods are known to have an 
average accuracy error between 10% and 40% relative to real yield at harvest [8,14–16]. 
Some authors consider an error ranging between 5% [4] and 10% [15] as ideal. 
Considering the disadvantages of the manual methods regarding their cost, possible 
destructiveness and unreliable estimation error, recently, several efforts have been made to 
replace them with automatic non-invasive approaches. Several alternatives to manual 
vineyard yield estimation have been recently reported [17], for example, based on the use 
of vegetation indexes obtained via aerial imaging [18], airborne pollen samples obtained 
using Crus pollen traps [19,20], trellis tension sensors deployed across the vineyard [21], 
crop simulation models using environmental and physiological data [22] and sensor 
technology such as radar or ultrasonic for bunch detection in dense canopies [23,24]. 
Overall, all methods present advantages and disadvantages when compared to manual 
approaches. While all are independent of bunch sampling, some are limited to region-wide 
estimations (e.g., airborne pollen). Others are dependent on well-maintained trellis systems 
and on a good distribution of sensors across the whole vineyard (e.g., trellis tension). Others 
depend on vegetative parameters that may not always be related to yield as well as expert-
dependent technology that is not always readily available (e.g., sensor-based methods). 
Out of the mentioned alternative yield estimation approaches, the most explored 
ones in recent research have been data driven-models based on computer vision and 
image processing [17]. Such approaches, besides being non-invasive, by scanning 
extensive amounts of individual plants, can reduce the errors related to spatial and 
temporal variability while also collecting information regarding their geographical 
position. 
The most common computer vision-based approaches consider the automatic 
recognition of either bunch overall pixels or single berries as they represent the main 
estimators of yield in 2D image scenarios [25]. Image analysis has been used to accurately 
identify the number of visible berries in vine images,using supervised learning algorithms 
[26]. Different approaches have been explored to identify the same yield component, such 

Agronomy 2022, 12, 1464 
3 of 21 
 
 
as hedge detection using Hough transform [27], Boolean models [28] and random forests 
[29]. Average berry size has also been automatically estimated using computer vision 
techniques [30][31]. Recently, grape bunch projected area has been detected with an 
unmanned aerial vehicle using photogrammetric point clouds and color filtering [32]. 
Other works explored the automatic detection of bunches on ground images using 
support vector machines [33] and artificial neural networks [34]. Furthermore, 3D imaging 
has also been explored for bunch detection (e.g., [35,36]), where it has been explored as 
only outperforming 2D analysis in laboratory conditions. 
Overall, yield components automatic recognition in vine images has proven 
successful in the above-referenced works, as most of them focus on the effectiveness of 
the automatic algorithms and their accuracy in identifying key vine image features that 
allow estimations of yield. In fact, several referenced works also perform yield estimations 
(e.g., [27–29,36]); however, apart from early-stage approaches (e.g., [37]), the majority of 
these research works apply their methods after some canopy manipulation. They do it by 
defoliating vines at the bunch zone prior to image collection (e.g., [3,33,34]) to surpass one 
of the main challenges of yield estimation via image analysis: bunch occlusion by leaves. 
In fact, most research does not account for the yield components that are occluded by 
leaves, woody material and neighboring bunches, previously referred to as vine-
occlusions and self or cluster-occlusions [38]. Furthermore, vineyards with very dense 
canopies are not usually considered. In such cases, only a small fraction of bunches is 
visible and not necessarily correlated with vine yield [39], and defoliation is not always a 
common practice (e.g., warm climate viticulture). The visibility of yield components along 
the vine growing cycle has been previously explored [40], and bunch occlusion ratios 
between 50% and 75% at the veraison stage were observed. Artificially generated vine 
images were recently explored to develop an algorithm capable of estimating berry 
numbers behind the leaves [41]. This work showed promising results in their synthetic 
data but inconclusive in real vine images. In recent research, our team showed that bunch 
occlusion by leaves could be surpassed by considering other canopy traits, besides yield 
components, such as canopy porosity [42]. Previously, canopy porosity has been 
estimated via image analysis [43] and presents results similar to the ones obtained via 
classical approaches [44]. Visible bunch area and canopy porosity have been used to 
estimate the percentage of exposed bunches [42]. This percentage was then used to 
compute the total bunch area, which, in turn, was used as a proxy of vine yield by means 
of a simplified area-to-mass conversion. 
After yield components recognition and estimation considering their occlusion, it is 
necessary to convert that information into vine yield, which is a challenging step as it can 
be highly cultivar-dependent [25,45]. Bunch morphology can vary greatly among 
cultivars and even between sites for the same cultivar [46]. The bunch compactness trait 
has been explored, considering its variability between cultivars and its importance 
regarding grape quality and bunch health [47,48]. Our research team also demonstrated 
that bunch morphology is a key feature when attempting to achieve a multicultivar bunch 
weight estimation model [45]. Furthermore, we also proved that when converting bunch 
image features into weight, several image-based traits (e.g., visible berries, bunch area, 
average berry size) from one single bunch image are not redundant and present better 
results than when using single predictors on bunch images [25,45]. 
Today, the advantages that an image-based yield estimation approach has, compared 
to a manual one, are clear, especially considering its potential to be completely non-
destructive, faster and labor free. However, its estimation errors in real field conditions, 
with high magnitudes of occlusion, are still difficult to be accepted by the growers. The 
aim of this paper is to compare the accuracy of a non-invasive and multicultivar, image-
based yield estimation approach, in real field conditions, with a manual method based on 
bunch counts and historical bunch weight at harvest. 
 
 

Agronomy 2022, 12, 1464 
4 of 21 
 
 
2. Materials and Methods 
2.1. Data sets, Plant Material and Growth Conditions 
Data used in this paper were collected from three vineyard plots located at two sites 
within the Lisbon wine region, approximately 50 km apart (Figure 1). The first site, Insti-
tuto Superior de Agronomia (ISA; 38°42′24.61″ N 9°11′05.53″ W), located at the ISA cam-
pus, encompasses two vineyard plots located at approximately 50 m above sea level, 
trained in a vertical shoot positioning trellis system with two pairs of movable wires. The 
first vineyard plot consists of drip-irrigated spur pruned white cultivars Alvarinho, 
Arinto and Encruzado grafted onto 1103 Paulsen rootstock, planted in 2006, spaced 1.0 m 
within and 2.5 m between north-south oriented rows. Water was supplied with a drip 
irrigation system, and irrigation was managed using a soil water probe. Readily available 
water was maintained until veraison, at which point water was applied by replacing only 
50% of crop evapotranspiration. The second vineyard plot of site ISA consists of rainfed 
spur pruned Syrah cultivar grafted onto 140 Ruggery rootstocks, planted in 1999, spaced 
1.2 m within and 2.5 m between north-south oriented rows. At this vineyard, data were 
collected from the 2019 season. In both plots, the soil is a clay loam with approximately 
1.6% organic matter and a pH of 7.8. 
The second site, Quinta da Amieira (QA), is located at Cabeça Gorda, approximately 
60 km north of Lisbon (39°11′26.442″ N 9°16′2.62″ W), 100 m above sea level. The vineyard 
was planted in 2003, spaced 1.0 m within and 2.5 m between north-south oriented rows, 
grafted onto SO4 rootstock, trained in a vertical shoot position, and supported by two 
pairs of movable wires. At this vineyard, data were collected from the cultivars Castelão 
(red) and Chardonnay (white) in 2020. Site QA is a rainfed vineyard and presents a sandy 
clay loam soil with 1.5% organic matter and a pH of 5.9. 
 
Figure 1. Location of studied sites (A = ISA; B = QA) and respective vineyard plots (1 and 2) in the 
Lisbon winegrowing region, Portugal. Image acquired from Google Earth®®®. 
Both sites present a typical Mediterranean climate with an Atlantic influence. Cli-
matic data were collected from a weather station located at ISA and one other approxi-
mately 10 km away from the QA site. The 2019 season at ISA presented a spring with an 
average of ~119 mm of precipitation from March to June, followed by a dry and warm 
summer (~17 mm of precipitation and an average mean temperature of 20.6 °C, from June 
to September). The 2020 season at QA presented a drier spring with an average of ~53 mm 

Agronomy 2022, 12, 1464 
5 of 21 
 
 
of precipitation from March to June and warm and dry summer (~28 mm of precipitation 
and an average mean temperature of 21.3 °C from June to September). Whereas the 2021 
season at ISA presented a spring with ~103 mm of precipitation (March until June) and a 
very dry summer with ~10 mm from June until September. In all studied seasons, both 
sites were subject to similar standard cultural practices during the growing cycle, includ-
ing water shoot removal, shoot trimming at 1.2 m above the cordon, shoot positioning and 
fertilization. 
In total, the present experience used six subsets of data with different cultivar, season 
and site combinations (Table 1). All data were collected on 1 m length vine segments near 
the veraison phenological stage (BBCH 81; Lorenz et al., 1995). A total of 213 vine seg-
ments were analyzed (30–40 per data set). 
Table 1. Characterization of each data set. Static image type was collected with a commercial cam-
era, and on-the-go images were collected using a terrestrial robot platform (Vinbot; Lopes et al. 
2017). 
Acronym 
Cultivar 
Site 
Season 
Image Type 
N 
Vine Spacing 
Plot size  
(Plant Number) 
Al21 
Alvarinho 
ISA 
2021 
Static 
36 
1.0 × 2.5 m 
1000 
Ar21 
Arinto 
ISA 
2021 
Static 
32 
1.0 × 2.5 m 
1040 
Ca20 
Castelão 
QA 
2020 
On-the-go 
30 
1.0 × 2.5 m 
137 
Ch20 
Chardonnay 
QA 
2020 
On-the-go 
36 
1.0 × 2.5 m 
139 
Enc19 
Encruzado 
ISA 
2019 
On-the-go 
39 
1.0 × 2.5 m 
1065 
Sy19 
Syrah 
ISA 
2019 
On-the-go 
40 
1.2 × 2.5 m 
670 
2.2. Image Acquisition 
As mentioned in Table 1, the image collection setup varied throughout the trial (Table 
1). As image analysis was performed manually, this was irrelevant to the quality of data 
collection since actual, as opposed to estimated, parameters were obtained. Images were 
collected using either a commercial camera, statically, or with the ground platform Vinbot 
[49] on-the-go. The commercial camera model used was a Nikon D5200 (Nikon Inc., Mel-
ville, NY, USA), with a resolution of 6000 × 4000 pixels and a Sigma 50 mm F2.8 macro 
lens. The Vinbot uses a Kinect v2.0 (Microsoft Corp., Albuquerque, NM, USA) with a res-
olution of 1920 × 1080 pixels. Along with the camera, the static image acquisition system 
encompassed a tripod that was placed approximately 2 m away from the target vine and 
held the camera approximately 1 m above the ground. Furthermore, the on-the-go image 
system involved using the platform Vinbot, an unmanned platform that carries several 
sensors for vineyard scanning [49]. In this experiment, only the robot’s RGB camera was 
used. To facilitate image analysis, a blue background was used on both image acquisition 
systems. Such an approach made it easier to distinguish vine elements from background 
noise and to estimate canopy porosity. All vine segments presented a static plastic scale 
under the cordon to identify the segment and to provide scaling information for image 
analysis. To avoid direct light incidence and consequent poor-quality imaging, images 
were collected after midday, taking advantage of the north/south row orientation and of 
the shade provided by the background positioned on the opposite side of the canopy com-
bined with the fully developed canopy. Figure 2 presents one example for each of the 
datasets described above. 

Agronomy 2022, 12, 1464 
6 of 21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Examples of images collected for each cultivar of the data set. (A): Alvarinho ISA 2021; (B): 
Arinto ISA 2021; (C): Castelão QA 2020; (D): Chardonnay QA 2020; (E): Encruzado ISA 2019; (F): 
Syrah ISA 2019. 
2.3. Image Processing 
From each vine segment, the following variables were extracted: visible bunch pro-
jected area (vBA), visible bunch projected perimeter (vBP), visible berry number (vBe) and 
canopy porosity (POR). To assess these features, all images were processed as follows: 
1. 
Images were scaled based on the physical scale present under the cordon of each vine 
segment; 
2. 
Images were cropped in order to include only a region of interest that encompasses 
approximately 50 cm above the cordon (Figure 3); 
3. 
Bunches were manually segmented on each image in order to obtain the actual vBA 
and vBP from each vine segment; 
4. 
The vBe was manually counted on each image; 
5. 
To estimate POR, canopy gap pixels were classified using a static color threshold after 
converting the original image from RGB to HSV (Hue-Saturation-Value) color space 
for improved invariance to illumination conditions. This task was performed using 
OpenCV in PyCharm®®®, an open-source Python-focused IDE, for automation pur-
poses. 
Tasks 1 to 4 were performed with the software Image J®®® (v1.53k, National Institutes 
of Health, EUA). Image features were selected based on previous research [42,45]. 

Agronomy 2022, 12, 1464 
7 of 21 
 
 
 
  
 
Figure 3. Example of an analyzed image obtained from the cultivar Arinto and respective region of 
interest for image analysis and feature segmentation. Red-filled polygons correspond to canopy po-
rosity; yellow-filled polygons + black dashed contour indicates the visible bunch projected area + 
perimeter and red dots the visible berries. 
2.4. Yield Estimation 
All analyzed vine segments were harvested at full maturation, and their bunches 
were counted and weighed. The final yield was compared to the output of two different 
methods of yield estimation: (i) the manual method, based on bunch counts, convention-
ally used in commercial vineyards and thoroughly described as the traditional method in 
[7]; (ii) an image analysis method following recent research [42], followed by a conversion 
of bunch area into yield based on several yield-predicting vine traits. The image analysis 
method described in Victorino et al. [42] is based on the assumption that a relationship 
between canopy porosity and bunch exposure exists. The method uses a combination of 
canopy porosity and visible bunch pixels to estimate the occluded fraction of the bunch 
area. 
2.4.1. Manual Yield Estimation 
Manual yield estimation was performed according to Equation 1, adapted from [7]. 
This method relies on multiplying the number of bunches by the average bunch weight at 
harvest, based on historical data. Bunches were counted on all analyzed vines. 
2.4.2. Yield Estimation Via Image Analysis 
Yield estimation via image analysis was obtained according to two different ap-
proaches, both based on a previously reported methodology [42]. In that methodology, 
vBA and POR were used to estimate the fraction of bunches occluded by leaves and, con-
sequently, the total bunch projected area (TBA). In that paper, the authors have simplified 
the final step of converting TBA into weight by using a single factor of conversion, differ-
ent for each studied cultivar. In the present work, TBA was considered along with other 
variables related to bunch weight [45]: vBP and vBe. However, these variables, unlike 
TBA, which already considers POR, are too dependent on bunch visibility and canopy 
density, which can be highly random. As such, they were only used to obtain derived 
variables, i.e., ratios between one another (e.g., vBA/vBe; vBA/vBP × vBe). Moreover, in 
an attempt to further enhance the model to be generalizable to different cultivars, a bunch 
compactness index (CI) was added. The CI used was based on the OIV descriptor n° 204 
[46], which classifies bunches into five categories, based on the mobility of the berries and 

Agronomy 2022, 12, 1464 
8 of 21 
 
 
the visibility of the pedicels, namely: very loose (class 1), loose (class 3), medium (class 5), 
dense (class 7) and very dense (class 9). The CI, as it is a visual assessment, was not ob-
tained from all images but instead only on a sample, with the aim to characterize the stud-
ied cultivar. 
A flowchart is shown in Figure 4 illustrating the pre-selection of variables followed 
by a stepwise regression model computed for final vine yield estimation. As explained 
above, it relies on two inputs of data: (i) user input regarding CI and (ii) image features 
originating from image analysis, used to compute TBA and other derived variables. All 
variables were then used to feed the model for yield estimation for each vine segment. 
 
Figure 4. Flowchart describing the proposed yield estimation approach from image collection to 
modeling and final estimation. 
2.5. Data Analysis 
All cultivars’ datasets were grouped together into one original dataset, which was 
divided into a training set (with 50% of the data) and a validation set (with the remaining 
50%) in a fully random way. Data analysis can be divided into three steps. The first step 
consists of characterizing the main estimators of yield considered in each of the two yield 
estimation approaches used in this work, on the full data set, separated by cultivar. The 
second step involves the model computation for yield estimation using image analysis. 
For that, a forward stepwise regression model was fitted on the training set after perform-
ing a collinearity test. A 0.15 critical F statistic was used in order to select the most mean-
ingful variables to estimate vine yield. The resulting multiple linear regression model was 
compared to other types of models such as support vector machines, decision trees and 
neural networks to explore non-linear possibilities. However, none presented clear ad-
vantages towards the linear regression model. The model was then validated on the vali-
dation set, and the coefficient of determination (R2) and root mean squared error (RMSE) 

Agronomy 2022, 12, 1464 
9 of 21 
 
 
were used to evaluate its performance. Furthermore, an F-test for slope = 1 and for inter-
cept = 0 was performed for overall model evaluation on both the training and validation 
sets. The third and final step consisted of comparing the output of the two above-men-
tioned yield estimation approaches. For this, to allow for a fair comparison, both ap-
proaches were used only on the validation data set, and estimation errors and trends were 
compared. The main error indicator was calculated as the difference between estimated 
and actual yield, divided by actual yield. The absolute value was not used in order to 
distinguish under from overestimations. The majority of the data analysis was performed 
using R Studio (v1.4.17; R Studio Inc.), while the stepwise regression model was computed 
using SAS®®® (v9.3; SAS Institute, Cary, NC, USA). 
3. Results 
3.1. Yield Estimators 
3.1.1. Manual Sampling 
The manual yield estimation approach explored in this work is based on one of the 
many possibilities reported in the literature, depending on bunch counts performed dur-
ing the period of fruit set-veraison [7]. The actual bunch number was multiplied by their 
average historical weight at harvest (Equation 1). Table 2 shows the average values for 
both yield components of the studied season plus historical bunch weight from five his-
torical seasons, as well as the Pearson correlation coefficient between bunch number and 
actual yield, observed for each cultivar separately. 
Table 2. Average ± standard error for the yield components used to obtain yield estimations using 
the manual method. Pearson correlation coefficient (r) between bunch number and actual yield. 
Data from the full data set, separated by cultivar. Bunch weight number of observations = ~50 inde-
pendent bunches per case. Historical bunch weight was obtained from 5 historical seasons. 
Cultivar 
n 
Historical Bunch 
Weight (g) 
Bunch Weight (g) 
Bunches/m 
Actual Yield 
(kg/m) 
r 
Al21 
36 
115.3 ± 11.8 
84.2 ± 3.4 
21.1 ± 1.0 
1.9 ± 0.1 
0.82 
Ar21 
32 
337.2 ± 32.0 
410.5 ± 12.3 
6.2 ± 0.5 
2.4 ± 0.2 
0.81 
Ca20 
30 
282.8 ± 25.8 
244.7 ± 5.3 
26.6 ± 1.4 
6.5 ± 0.4 
0.79 
Ch20 
36 
142.4 ± 18.5 
118.3 ± 5.9 
29.1 ± 1.4 
2.1 ± 0.2 
0.83 
En19 
39 
176.7 ± 17.0 
170.4 ± 11.7 
12.9 ± 0.7 
1.8 ± 0.1 
0.75 
Sy19 
40 
119.5 ± 13.3 
72.1 ± 4.7 
15.3 ± 0.8 
0.8 ± 0.1 
0.86 
The heaviest bunches were found on cv. Arinto, followed by cvs. Castelão and En-
cruzado, while cvs. Alvarinho and Syrah presented the lightest ones. Historically, cv. 
Arinto presented lighter bunches than in the present season. However, these were still the 
heaviest among all cultivars. All other cultivars presented higher historical bunch weights 
than in the present season, particularly cv. Syrah, on which historical bunch weight was 
almost twofold. The cv. Chardonnay presented the largest bunch number when compared 
to all other cultivars, closely followed by cvs. Castelão and Alvarinho. Cultivar Arinto 
showed the lowest number of bunches, by far. The correlation coefficients between bunch 
number and actual yield were highest for cv. Syrah, closely followed by cvs. Chardonnay 
and Alvarinho and lowest for cvs. Encruzado and Castelão. 
3.1.2. Image Analysis 
On the same plants where bunches were counted, images of the full vine segments 
were collected. Table 3 shows the average values of the variables obtained from these im-
ages. The table also includes TBA, which was estimated from vBA and POR, following 
recently developed methodologies [42], and CI, obtained from visual assessment of a sam-
ple of images. 

Agronomy 2022, 12, 1464 
10 of 21 
 
 
Table 3. Average ± standard error for the variables used to obtain yield estimations using the image 
analysis method (Equation (3)). Data from the full data set, separated by cultivar. vBA: Visible bunch 
projected area; POR: Canopy porosity; vBP: Visible bunch projected perimeter; vBe: Visible berry 
number; TBA: estimated total bunch projected area (Victorino et al. 2022a); CI: Compactness index 
at veraison, determined using the OIV scale (OIV, 2009). 
Cultivar 
N 
vBA (cm2) 
vBP (cm) 
POR (cm2) 
vBe 
TBA (cm2/m) 
CI * 
Al21 
36 
173.6 ± 10.1 
193.1 ± 10.7 
337.2 ± 52.6 
193.1 ± 11.0 
784.4 ± 29.8 
5.0 
Ar21 
32 
123.4 ± 16.2 
106.9 ± 10.6 
162.1 ± 31.0 
119.8 ± 15.3 
807.9 ± 58.2 
5.0 
Ca20 
30 
533.5 ± 40.4 
333.1 ± 23.2 
192.4 ± 19.3 
269.0 ± 22.5 
1128.1 ± 46.3 
7.0 
Ch20 
36 
510.0 ± 39.1 
349.8 ± 24.8 
266.6 ± 39.6 
296.5 ± 23.9 
813.5 ± 39.4 
5.0 
En19 
39 
85.3 ± 8.7 
69.0 ± 5.6 
112.0 ± 14.4 
52.1 ± 5.5 
638.5 ± 33.1 
5.0 
Sy19 
40 
142.7 ± 12.6 
124.8 ± 9.6 
434.0 ± 49.4 
209.3 ± 18.6 
541.0 ± 29.5 
3.0 
* CI is fixed per cultivar and does not present deviation. 
The highest vBA was observed on cv. Castelão, closely followed by cv. Chardonnay, 
which presented values three to five-fold higher than the remaining cultivars, with cv. 
Encruzado presenting the lowest average value. vBP presented relative differences that 
mirrored those reported for vBA. POR was highest in cv. Syrah, followed closely by cv. 
Alvarinho, with cv. Encruzado presenting the lowest values. vBe was highest in cv. Char-
donnay, closely followed by cvs. Castelão and Syrah, with the lowest value being ob-
served in cv. Encruzado. Regarding TBA, cv. Castelão presented the highest value, fol-
lowed by Arinto, while the lowest values were observed on cvs. Syrah and Encruzado. 
Regarding bunch compactness, overall, cultivars were considered to have medium com-
pact bunches at veraison, within the OIV scale [46], with the exceptions of cvs. Castelão 
and Syrah, which were classified as having dense and loose bunches, respectively. 
Figure 5 shows the Pearson correlation coefficients between estimated TBA and ac-
tual yield, separated by cultivar (A), as well as the regression analysis between the same 
variables (B). When analyzed per cultivar, a high and significant correlation coefficient (r) 
was observed in all cases, with the lowest r being shown by cv. Encruzado and the highest 
by cv. Castelão. Considering the regression analysis (Figure 5B), a significant coefficient 
of determination was found between these two variables, which, overall, presented an 
exponential relationship. Some variability was found in the residuals of the regression 
model, particularly between cultivars. While almost all observations of cv. Castelão are 
above the regression line, in cv. Syrah, the opposite occurs. A covariance analysis corrob-
orates the visual appraisal, indicating significant differences between cultivars in the re-
lationship between TBA and actual yield (results not shown). Apart from this cultivar 
dependency, the model explains only 62% of the actual yield variability. Overall, the re-
sults indicate that the conversion of TBA into bunch mass requires further improvements, 
particularly considering its generalizing capability [42]. 

Agronomy 2022, 12, 1464 
11 of 21 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5. (A) Pearson correlation coefficients (r) between estimated total bunch area (TBA) and ac-
tual yield, separated by cultivar. (B) Regression analysis between estimated TBA and actual yield. 
*** indicates statistical significance (p < 0.001). Data from full data set (n = 213). 
3.2. Improving the Conversion of Image Traits into Mass 
In order to improve the accuracy of the TBA conversion into mass, a new model was 
explored. For that, apart from TBA, other image-based derived variables were computed 
for including in the stepwise regression. As described in the Materials and Methods sec-
tion, the derived variables were calculated as the ratio or product between traits obtained 
directly from the vine images. These derived variables provide hints regarding bunch and 
berry architecture, bunch compactness and distribution in the image. Variable POR was 
left out as it was already included in the estimation TBA. Furthermore, in an attempt to 
further improve model performance, the variable CI was included. 
To find an appropriate set of independent variables to predict yield, a forward step-
wise regression analysis between all the above-mentioned variables and actual yield was 
performed. Table 4 shows the summary of the stepwise regression. 
Table 4. Summary of stepwise regression used to estimate vine yield with respective added and 
removed variables, statistical significance for their selection (p-value), partial R2 and MSE (mean 
squared error). 
Step 
Added Variable 
Removed Variable 
p-Value 
Partial R2 
MSE (kg) 
1 
TBA × CI2 
- 
0.000 
0.837 
0.580 
2 
vBP/Vba × vBe 
- 
0.051 
0.849 
0.544 
3 
vBA/vBP 
- 
0.125 
0.852 
0.537 
4 
vBA/vBP × vBe 
- 
0.014 
0.861 
0.511 
5 
- 
vBP/vBA × vBe 
0.538 
0.860 
0.508 
The first variable entered into the model was TBA multiplied by CI2, explaining 84% 
of yield variability. In the second step, the derived variable vBP/vBA × vBe was selected, 
increasing the R2 by an additional 1.2% but later removed in step five by surpassing the 
0.15 significance level for entry. In a third step, the derived variable vBA/vBP was chosen, 
which was followed, in the fourth step, by the variable vBA/vBP × vBe, achieving a final 
R2 of 0.86. No other variable met the 0.15 significance level for entry into the model. 
The estimated values of the elected model fit very well with the actual yield. How-
ever, the residual plot (not shown) indicated that the estimated yield variation was de-
pendent on the values of the predictor variables. The violation of the constant variance 

Agronomy 2022, 12, 1464 
12 of 21 
 
 
assumption indicated the need for a variable transformation. A maximum likelihood anal-
ysis suggested that a square root transformation of the response variable (yield) would be 
more appropriate than the original scale. The square root transformation stabilized the 
variance and improved the linearity of the model (data not shown). Equation (3) shows 
the final model after converting the rooted response back to the original scale. 
Est. yield image (kg/m) = (0.883 + 298E−7 × [TBA × CI2] + 0.0004 × [
୴୆୅
௩஻௘ × vBP]−1.54 × 
୴୆୅
୴୆୔)2 
(3)
Figure 6 shows the results of applying Equation (3) to both the training and valida-
tion sets, also on the original scale, as this is the scale that would be of interest to a user. 
The visual appraisal shows a good agreement between the observed and estimated yield 
on both data sets. 
 
 
Figure 6. Regression analysis between the observed and estimated yield (obtained using Equation 
(3)) for the (A)) training (n =108) and (B)) validation (n = 105) data sets, separated by cultivar. 
Table 5 shows the statistical indicators of goodness of fit of the multiple regression 
model presented in equation 3. The results corroborate the visual evaluation on both the 
training and validation sets, with a high and significant R2 and a low RMSE. The overall 
fitted lines’ slope and intercept did not show significant differences for 1 and 0, respec-
tively, meaning that the model does not present an underestimation or overestimation 
trend. The R2 decreased, and the RMSE increased slightly after the root transformation 
(only applicable to the training set). 
Table 5. Statistical indicators of the model represented by Equation 3, on both the training and val-
idation sets. All R2 values are statistically significant (p < 0,001). 
Model 
n 
R2 
Adj-R2 
RMSE 
Linear Regression 
Intercept 1 
Slope 2 
Training set 
108 
0.85 
0.85 
0.74 
0.201 ns 
0.934 ns 
Validation set 
105 
0.86 
0.86 
0.82 
0.019 ns 
1.082 ns 
1 t-test for intercept = 0; 2 t-test for slope = 1; n.s. = not significant. 
3.3. Comparing Manual with Image-Based Yield Estimations 
In order to measure the effectiveness of the estimation method presented in this 
work, fruit mass estimations obtained using the stepwise regression model explained 
above were compared with manual yield estimations obtained via the conventional 
method based on bunch counts and historical bunch weight. Figure 7 shows both estima-
tions paired with the actual yield per meter on the validation set. The visual assessment 

Agronomy 2022, 12, 1464 
13 of 21 
 
 
shows a good fit between both the manual and image-based estimations with actual yield, 
with all lines presenting synchronized trends. In cvs. Chardonnay and Syrah, the manual 
yield estimation method presented a general overestimating trend. Both yield estimating 
methods presented the same overall correlation coefficient between estimated values and 
actual yield (r = 0.89); however, under and overestimations can be observed in both cases. 
 
Figure 7. Variation of actual yield per vine segment and cultivar compared to estimated yield using 
manual and image-based methods. 
Table 6 presents the accumulated yield estimations obtained on the validation set for 
every single cultivar. It includes the estimation error when compared to the actual yield. 
Regarding manual estimations, the lowest absolute error was observed on cv. Arinto fol-
lowed by cv. Castelão, while the highest was observed on cv. Syrah. Only cv. Arinto pre-
sented an absolute estimation error below 10%, while cvs. Chardonnay and Syrah pre-
sented extremely high errors, close to twofold the actual value. When extrapolated to the 
whole vineyard plot, estimation errors changed considerably for most cultivars: 25.6%, 
−13.1%, 6.5%, 16.3%, 27.9%, 30.1% for cvs. Alvarinho, Arinto, Castelão, Chardonnay, En-
cruzado and Syrah, respectively. Image-based estimations presented lower absolute er-
rors than manually obtained ones in five out of six datasets, with only two cultivars pre-
senting values above |10%|. The image-based estimation with the lowest error was ob-
tained on cv. Chardonnay, followed by cvs. Alvarinho and Syrah, all three cases with val-
ues below |10%|. The highest error was observed on cvs. Arinto and Encruzado. Overall, 
with all cultivars combined, the image-based method presented a lower absolute estima-
tion error than the manual approach. For all cases, with the exception of cv. Castelão, the 
correlations between actual and estimated yield were higher for the manual method. 
Table 6. Results of estimated yield obtained using manual and image-based methods compared to 
actual yield obtained at harvest, on the validation set, for each cv and season. Error = (Yieldest-
Yieldact)/Yieldact; r: Pearson correlation coefficient between estimated and actual yield. 
Cultivar 
N 
Actual Yield 
Estimated Yield manual 
Estimated Yield image 
(kg/m) 
(kg/m) 
Error (%) 
r 
(kg/m) 
Error (%) 
r 
Al21 
17 
2.0 ± 0.1 
2.6 ± 0.1 
27.5 
0.73 
2.1 ± 0.1 
2.8 
0.51 
Ar21 
18 
2.1 ± 0.2 
2.0 ± 0.2 
-7.6 
0.81 
1.7 ± 0.1 
−19.0 
0.64 
Ca20 
15 
7.0 ± 0.3 
7.7 ± 0.3 
10.0 
0.62 
6.4 ± 0.3 
−9.2 
0.75 
Ch20 
18 
2.1 ± 0.2 
3.9 ± 0.2 
90.0 
0.83 
2.1 ± 0.1 
−0.1 
0.74 
En19 
17 
1.8 ± 0.2 
2.4 ± 0.1 
29.9 
0.79 
1.5 ± 0.1 
−20.8 
0.67 
Sy19 
20 
0.9 ± 0.1 
2.0 ± 0.1 
124.2 
0.86 
0.9 ± 0.0 
4.4 
0.65 
Pooled 
105 
2.5 ± 0.1 
3.3 ± 0.2 
31.0 
0.89 
2.3 ± 0.1 
−8.3 
0.89 

Agronomy 2022, 12, 1464 
14 of 21 
 
 
4. Discussion 
The present work compares the use of grapevine image features with a manual 
method based on bunch counts and historical bunch weight to estimate vineyard yield 
non-invasively near the veraison phenological stage. The manual method is obtained by 
multiplying bunch counts with historical bunch weight, while the image-based method 
builds on previous publications [42], where the total bunch projected area is estimated 
from canopy porosity and visible bunch area. A new model was computed in order to 
accurately convert the output of that work into vine yield. 
4.1. Yield Estimators 
The dataset used in this work, which encompasses six subsets, corresponding to six 
cvs. collected in three vineyard plots, presents significant variability, with similar previ-
ously reported magnitudes [39], an important feature required to validate our hypothesis. 
Previous research reports that bunch number explains approximately 60–70% of the sea-
sonal variation in vine yield [8]. In general, our results confirm this trend, with the R2 
between bunch number and vine yield varying between 0.56 and 0.74 (Table 2). This high-
lights the fact that spatial variability regarding bunch number can have an important ef-
fect on the output of a manual estimation based on bunch count samples that are extrap-
olated to the whole plot. In the present work, because manual estimations were performed 
using the actual bunch number, the errors showed by this approach should be attributed 
to the variability of the bunch size between the analyzed vine segments combined with 
the difference between historical and actual bunch weight. In our data, the historical 
bunch weight was considerably different from the actual bunch weight in several culti-
vars, which hints at potential estimation errors (Table 2). Although this manual method is 
a very accessible approach that has the advantage of being possible to obtain at a very 
early stage, the fact that it is so dependent on historical data makes it unreliable in many 
scenarios, as has been previously pointed out by other authors [3,50]. It is important to 
highlight the particularly low yield presented by the cv. Syrah in the studied conditions 
(Table 2), which can mainly be attributed to its low average bunch weight, is almost half 
of the historical data. Such differences were potentially caused by the joint effect of poor 
fruit set conditions [51] and some berry shriveling near harvest (visually assessed) com-
monly observed in this cultivar (e.g., [52]). Cultivar Syrah vines, in the studied vineyard 
plot, are also characterized by a considerable age (~26 years old), which may have affected 
manual estimations. Regardless, it is important that in these types of vineyard plots, which 
are likely to be more variable than younger ones, yield estimation methods are also accu-
rate, particularly in Europe, where an estimated 37.1% of total planted vines are older than 
30 years [53]. 
From an image-based perspective, regarding visible bunch area, the highest values 
observed on cvs. Castelão and Chardonnay (Table 3), from the QA site, can be explained 
not only by its higher yield but mostly by the fact that, on this site, basal defoliation was 
performed at the pea-size phenological stage. This canopy management practice is very 
common in coastal areas, aiming at reducing canopy density in the bunch zone for bunch 
health and berry color purposes [51]. Even though lateral shoots compensated part of that 
defoliation by harvest, at veraison, bunches still presented high exposure. This is further 
confirmed by the fact that the difference between cultivars regarding their estimated TBA 
is not as large, highlighting the robustness of previously presented approaches [42] to 
consider different scenarios of bunch exposure. Moreover, although cv. Encruzado pre-
sented the lowest BA of all cvs., because of its low POR, estimated TBA was still higher 
than cv. Syrah and close to other cultivars, indicating that a low percentage of visible 
bunches was estimated [42]. In cv. Syrah, the 142.7 cm2/m of BA most likely represents a 
high percentage of the total bunch area, being a case with very low yield and high POR. 
The higher porosity presented by cv. Syrah can be explained by the low vigor and mild 
water stress (rainfed vineyard) that was observed in this vineyard. This cultivar showed 

Agronomy 2022, 12, 1464 
15 of 21 
 
 
some leaf senescence, which was already visible at veraison and had an impact on POR 
and, consequently, on bunch exposure [54]. Moreover, cv. Syrah also showed a very high 
average vBe value (Table 3). This can be explained by this cultivar’s lower CI when com-
pared to the remaining ones. Although some of the cultivars ended up presenting denser 
bunches near harvest, as a factor of their berry growth during maturation, at veraison, 
most presented a CI = 5. However, cv. Castelão was already more compact than the other 
cultivars, probably as a consequence of this cultivar’s larger berries. In fact, by dividing 
vBA by vBe, this can be observed. Although this ratio is not the true value of the average 
berry area, as both variables consider partially visible berries, it can be seen as an indicator 
of that trait. Furthermore, cv. Syrah, which was the only cultivar with a CI = 3 at veraison, 
also presented the lowest vBA/vBe ratio; this is probably what caused its bunches to be so 
light. With smaller berries and looser bunches (Table 3), it was possible to see a higher 
percentage of berries of the same bunch than in other cases. 
Regarding bunch perimeter, although closely related to BA in terms of bunch imag-
ing characterization, it presents some noticeable differences in some cases. Even though 
cv. Alvarinho presented higher relative values of BA than BP; this was not true for any 
other cultivar (Table 3). Cv. Alvarinho presented a high number of very small bunches 
(Table 2), a fact that has an impact on their distribution along the canopy. Consequently, 
this cultivar’s vine images presented a higher number of segmented bunch pixel agglom-
erates, i.e., higher perimeter for the same bunch area than a cultivar with larger bunches 
(e.g., cv. Arinto). Furthermore, although vBe presented a very high correlation coefficient 
with vBA (r = 0.82), they have been proven to not be redundant when used to estimate 
bunch weight [25,45]. These variables were not used singularly in the present work. How-
ever, their ratio provides us with information regarding the average berry size. This can 
be valuable when attempting to evaluate bunch architecture as it is dependent on berry 
size and can have an impact on bunch weight [47]. 
In the present work, images from two different imaging systems were used: on-the-
go, using the Vinbot platform, and static, using a commercial camera. As image analysis 
was performed manually, image quality was not relevant to obtaining image traits with 
accuracy. However, the time taken to analyze lower resolution images (Vinbot) was 
higher, as the difficulty increased with lower image quality. This can be a challenge when 
analyzing data automatically, as classification algorithms might not achieve the same re-
sults on both types of images. The variable that was most sensible to lower resolution 
seemed to be vBe, as it was harder to differentiate berries from one another in shaded 
parts of the image. Higher resolution images will always perform better in terms of data 
quality, with the inconvenience of potentially causing higher processing times as a conse-
quence of larger images [55]. 
4.2. Conversion of Image Traits into Mass 
The exponential relationship presented between TBA and actual yield (Figure 5B) 
indicates that TBA represents higher relative yield at higher magnitudes, i.e., the rate of 
change of yield depends on TBA itself. The relatively high residuals could either be a con-
sequence of the original TBA estimation, which is based on BA and POR and encompasses 
some error (R2 = 0.80, [42]), or the relationship between TBA and bunch mass. As the true 
TBA is unknown, it is not possible to know with certainty if the error originated when 
estimating it. However, in the original publication, where the true TBA is known [42], 
specific results for the cv. Syrah showed overestimations of TBA, which is also potentially 
true in the present case, as the cv. Syrah observations are almost all below the regression 
line. Furthermore, the direct relationship between the true TBA and yield may be subject 
to variation caused by bunch occlusions by other bunches, which have a higher chance to 
occur at higher yields, such as the case of cv. Castelão. In fact, in Figure 5B, we can observe 
that there are almost no observations below the regression line (overestimations) above 
yields of ~5 kg/m, which coincides exclusively with cv. Castelão. Because of this, it is un-

Agronomy 2022, 12, 1464 
16 of 21 
 
 
clear if this behavior is characteristic of high-yielding vines or a trait of this cultivar. More-
over, cv. Encruzado was the only one to show an r between TBA and actual yield below 
0.50 (Figure 5A). This cv. was also the one with the lowest vBA and POR while still having 
an average actual yield of 1.8 kg/m. It can be assumed that cv. Encruzado presented a 
particularly challenging scenario, with a very low percentage of visible vBA compared to 
its true TBA. Considering this, there is a possibility that the yield estimation error found 
in Figure 5B is a consequence of an accumulated error from both steps (TBA estimation 
and area to mass conversion) and that this error is cultivar-dependent. These results jus-
tify the strategy of adding other variables in order to evaluate if the model accuracy im-
proves at estimating vine yield. 
As a reliable estimation of bunch compactness was not possible to achieve with the 
analyzed variables, the OIV bunch compactness index was added to the model. Bunch 
compactness obtained via OIV methodology [46] must be performed visually on a sample 
of bunches. However, this can be performed non-invasively, on the vine images them-
selves, by an expert who is running the yield estimation system (i.e., the service provider). 
Furthermore, it is not necessary to obtain this CI from a large number of bunches as it was 
used merely as an indicator of how compact bunches are for that cultivar plot. It could 
even be obtained historically or from OIV records [46] if the cultivar is included on their 
list. However, it is always advised for bunch compactness to be estimated on bunches 
from the plot being assessed, especially when estimating yield at veraison, as CI in the 
bibliography refers to fully maturated bunches. There are some upgrades that can be de-
vised in the future regarding this topic. For example, if the resolution is high enough, or 
images are collected closer to the vines, then part of the previously reported results [45,48] 
could possibly be mirrored. If so, CI could be automatically obtained on every image, 
which could potentially improve the yield estimation model, as bunch compactness can 
vary even within the same cultivar. 
Following the stepwise regression analysis, the variables selected for the image-
based approach (Table 4) seem to be effective at decreasing the error generated by the 
problems mentioned above. In the first step of this analysis, the variable TBA was selected 
and associated with CI, corroborating previous work [42] and validating the importance 
of this variable in explaining grapevine yield. It also adds the importance of the variable 
CI in differentiating TBA between cultivars with different bunch architecture, as bunch 
compactness is known to be a trait that influences bunch weight [47]. This trait is highly 
variable between cultivars [56] and can be one of the reasons why it is challenging to esti-
mate yield with the same method across different cultivars. In Victorino et al. [45], the 
authors explore this in laboratory conditions by using a ratio between vBA and vBP, as a 
bunch with a higher percentage of holes in its structure will show a lower ratio. 
Furthermore, in Cubero et al. [48], the authors also explore the estimation of bunch 
compactness using automated image analysis, recurring to variables such as bunch length, 
perimeter and area. However, such approaches are much harder to achieve at the vine 
level. The main limitations being image resolution and noise. While in lab conditions, dif-
ferences between berries and blank spaces inside the bunch are clear, within a vine image, 
this is not as easy, as the resolution does not allow it. Furthermore, the noise behind 
bunches also makes it harder for blank spaces within the bunch to be visually identified 
in an image by a human and probably also by an automatic algorithm. However, as men-
tioned above and shown by the third step of the stepwise regression model (Table 4), the 
ratio between vBA and vBP can still be very valuable even at the vine level. In fact, as 
explained above, this ratio can be seen as an index that distinguishes a bunch pixel ag-
glomerate’s size. In the images, this size can be affected not only by the above-mentioned 
bunch architecture but also by factors such as bunch proximity to one another and even 
leaf occlusions. That is, in the image, two bunches that are side by side will hardly be 
distinguished and instead will be counted as one larger bunch (lower perimeter for the 
same area). On the other hand, a leaf occlusion that segments, in the image, a large bunch 
in two will simulate two smaller bunches instead of one larger (higher perimeter for the 

Agronomy 2022, 12, 1464 
17 of 21 
 
 
same area). Furthermore, this ratio can also be an indicator of bunch format, as the ratio 
between vBA and vBP is maximum within a circle. Although it is highly unlikely that a 
bunch pixel agglomerate resembles a perfect circle, this ratio may distinguish cases that 
present rounder shapes over more angular ones. 
The final derived variable to enter the model (vBA/vBP × vBe) distinguishes cases 
with constant vBA/vBP, by associating it with an indicator of bunch size. That is, it adds 
the possibility to differentiate cases with the same type of bunch pixel agglomerates, con-
sidering its shape and distribution in the image, but with different potential yield (higher 
number of visible berries versus lower one). Furthermore, the fact that vBe was considered 
by the model, even if as part of a derived variable, is in accordance with previous publi-
cations that elected vBe as an important estimator of yield (e.g., [26,27,29]). However, as 
previously reported [25,45], accuracy increases when used along with other predictors. 
4.3. Comparing Manual with Image-Based Yield Estimations 
The fact that the image-based yield estimation method achieved results that rival 
and, in most cases, outperform the ones presented by the studied manual method (Figure 
6 and Table 6) is highly promising. Indeed, only two image-based cases showed estima-
tion errors above the |10|% error threshold mentioned for near-harvest estimations in 
[15], compared to four cases when using the manual approach. Three image-based cases 
(cvs. Alvarinho, Chardonnay and Syrah) even showed an error below the strictest re-
ported threshold of 5% indicated by [4]. Even though some errors were found on individ-
ual observations on the training and validation sets (Figure 6), it seems that most under 
and overestimations compensated for each other, achieving overall good results on the 
combined set of vines in the validation set. Although yield estimation results are generally 
good, the fact that some cultivars present significantly higher estimation errors is an indi-
cator of cultivar dependence. However, the highest errors were obtained on the same cul-
tivars where the densest canopies were found (cvs. Encruzado and Arinto with the lowest 
vBA and POR; Table 3). These results hint that grapevines with extremely dense canopies 
can be a limitation of the proposed yield estimation approach. On the other hand, high vigor 
scenarios can be affected by factors such as cultivar, overall vineyard management and grow-
ing conditions [9]. Regardless, besides a lower overall yield estimation accuracy, values 
obtained with the image-based approach followed actual vine yield trends very closely 
for these and the remaining cultivars (Figure 7). This is relevant if we consider the scale at 
which this information is important. That is, having good individual estimations of every 
vine is important to evaluate the quality of this approach; however, if the purpose of the 
yield estimation performed by a winegrower is to, for example, prepare the cellar to re-
ceive grapes, then maybe such a high resolution is not required. Instead, a broader esti-
mation of a group of vines is enough. If the goal is to provide relevant information for 
marketing strategies, then even wider estimations of cultivar plots would suffice. On the 
other hand, if the winegrower is planning yield regulating tasks, then possibly, plant by 
plant information can be useful. The present results show that the image-based method 
studied in this work can be effective in both scenarios for almost all cases (Figure 7; Table 
6). 
The manual method explored in this work is highly accessible to any winegrower, 
and it is possible to perform even before fruit set when inflorescences and the following 
bunches remain the same until harvest. However, in some cases, the method showed ex-
tremely high estimation errors, mainly caused by differences between historical and ac-
tual bunch weight, which, in some cultivars, was almost twofold (Table 2). This was par-
ticularly true for cv. Syrah, where the considerably higher historical bunch weight caused 
a significant overestimation of yield on the validation set. As the image-based method is 
not dependent on historical data, it was a case where the approach designed in this work 
was highly advantageous. However, the overestimation was presented when using the 
manual method on the cv. Syrah, and also on cv. Chardonnay was significantly lower 

Agronomy 2022, 12, 1464 
18 of 21 
 
 
when data were extrapolated to the whole cultivar plots (error = 30% and 16%, respec-
tively, for cvs. Syrah and Chardonnay). This is most likely related to the spatial variability 
that the plot presents and the possibility that images were collected and sampling was 
performed on vines that were less representative of the plot. In fact, the number of plants 
in the validation set represents only 1% to 4% of the total number of plants in the cultivar 
plots. This further proves the difficulty of a sample-based approach to be effective when 
spatial variability is present [57]. Even though, in this case, the error decreased from the 
validation set to the whole plot extrapolation, for the manual approach, it was a conse-
quence of the spatial variability compensating for the errors caused by season variability 
(historical bunch weight). Furthermore, this extrapolation exercise would be unrealistic to 
perform for the image-based yield estimation approach as one of the most relevant ad-
vantages of an automated method is the fact that it can be used on a high number of vines. 
As such, an automated image-based setup (e.g., [28]) would be possible to use on all vines 
of the cultivar plots. Such an approach would leave out the need for extrapolation, and 
the errors of such an approach would be closer to the ones presented in Table 6. 
Further research includes adding more vine traits that can be easily scanned using im-
age analysis (e.g., average berry size, vine leaf area) or by adding other technologies that 
collect data beyond what can be obtained from an RGB image [18,24,41]. In an optimal sce-
nario, the data collected from each vine could be carried to future seasons, i.e., developing 
a model that considers detailed historical data collected with the same image collection de-
vice, similar to what has been explored for enhanced conventional sampling strategies [14]. 
Furthermore, the collection of larger datasets of different cultivars in different growing con-
ditions can be important to increase the model robustness to be applied across different sce-
narios. This can potentially enable the use of models developed for specific cultivars or 
growing conditions. Moreover, further work is required to improve estimations of TBA on 
very dense canopies with high percentages of bunch occlusion by leaves. Further, as previ-
ously mentioned, bunch occlusion by other bunches can play an important role in an image-
based setup. We are currently working on this topic and exploring what vine traits are con-
nected to this issue, for example, fruit zone amplitude, bunch number and bunch distance 
to other bunches. Moreover, we are also exploring if analyzing images from both sides of 
the canopy can be advantageous regarding this and other topics. 
5. Conclusions 
In this study, a non-invasive, image-based yield estimation method was presented 
and compared against estimations performed using a manual method based on bunch 
counts combined with historical bunch weight at harvest. 
Total bunch projected area, estimated from bunch area and canopy porosity, alt-
hough successful at estimating part of the occluded bunch pixels, did not allow an accu-
rate yield estimation across multiple cultivars at the vine level. Other image-based varia-
bles, such as the visible berry number, bunch perimeter and bunch compactness index, 
were added as derived variables, which highly increased the accuracy of the model. The 
final model achieved accurate results in both individual vines and when analyzed in bulk, 
which can be important depending on the goal of the yield prediction. 
Overall, the yield estimation results based on the image-based approach suggested 
in this work rivaled the ones obtained with the manual method, in most cases even out-
performing them. Although the manual method is accessible to any winegrower and ob-
tainable at earlier phenological stages, the studied image-based approach presents the ad-
vantage of potentially being fully automated and used across whole vineyards non-inva-
sively. Further work is required to fully automate this methodology and to explore addi-
tional easily obtained variables that may improve final estimations and robustness over 
different vineyard scenarios. 

Agronomy 2022, 12, 1464 
19 of 21 
 
 
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, G.V., R.P.B., J.S.-V. and C.M.L.; methodology, G.V., 
R.P.B., J.S.-V. and C.M.L.; software G.V. and C.M.L.; validation, G.V., R.P.B., J.S.-V. and C.M.L.; for-
mal analysis, G.V. and C.M.L.; investigation, G.V.; resources, G.V., R.P.B., J.S.-V. and C.M.L.; data 
curation, G.V.; writing—original draft preparation, G.V.; writing—review and editing, G.V., R.P.B., 
J.S.-V. and C.M.L.; visualization, G.V. and C.M.L.; supervision, R.P.B., J.S.-V. and C.M.L.; project 
administration, C.M.L.; funding acquisition, G.V. All authors have read and agreed to the published 
version of the manuscript. 
Funding: Gonçalo Victorino was supported by the PhD grant SFRH/BD/132305/2017, sponsored by 
FCT—Fundação para a Ciência e a Tecnologia. 
Data Availability Statement: Not applicable. 
Acknowledgements: We gratefully acknowledge the valuable contributions of masters students 
Guilherme Maia, José Queiroz, Beatrice Carmignani, Giuseppe Samà, Luigi Mauro, Ruben Bonaria, 
João Mak, Nuno Simão and Marta Simões who helped with data collection and overall teamwork 
that made this research possible. 
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest. 
References 
1. 
Cataldo, E.; Salvi, L.; Paoli, F.; Fucile, M.; Mattii, G.B. Effects of defoliation at fruit Set on vine physiology and berry composition 
in cabernet sauvignon grapevines. Plants 2021, 10, 1183. 
2. 
Aru, V.; Nittnaus, A.P.; Sørensen, K.M.; Engelsen, S.B.; Toldam-Andersen, T.B. Effects of Water Stress, Defoliation and Crop 
Thinning on Vitis vinifera L. cv. Solaris: Part I: Plant Responses, Fruit Development and Fruit Quality. Metabolites 2022, 12, 363. 
3. 
Dunn, G.M.; Martin, S.R. Yield prediction from digital image analysis: A technique with potential for vineyard assessments 
prior to harvest. Aust. J. Grape Wine Res. 2004, 10, 196–198. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1755-0238.2004.tb00022.x . 
4. 
Whitty, M.; Liu, S.; Cossell, S.; Jayakody, H.; Woods, M.; Tang, J.; Singh, S.; van Kerk Oerle, P.; Wiseham, D.; Liu, S.; Davidson, 
A.; Stocco, T.; Jarrett, J.; Jarrett, P.; Wotton, C.; Shepherd, J.; Lim, S.; Petrie, PR.; Dunn, G. Improved yield prediction for the 
Australian wine industry. Wine Australia 2017, Adelaide, South Australia, DPI1401. Available online at https://www.wineaus-
tralia.com/au/research/search/completed-projects/dpi-1401 (accessed on 15 May 2022). 
5. 
Gatti, M.; Bernizzoni, F.; Civardi, S.; Poni, S. Effects of cluster thinning and preflowering leaf removal on growth and grape 
composition in cv. Sangiovese. Am. J. Enol. Vitic. 2012, 63, 325–332. https://doi.org/10.5344/ajev.2012.11118 . 
6. 
Lorenz, D.H.; Eichhorn, K.W.; Bleiholder, H.; Klose, R.; Meier, U.; Weber, E. Growth Stages of the Grapevine: Phenological 
growth stages of the grapevine (Vitis vinifera L. ssp. vinifera)—Codes and descriptions according to the extended BBCH scale. 
Aust. J. Grape Wine Res. 1995, 1, 100–103. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1755-0238.1995.tb00085.x . 
7. 
Dami, I., Sabbatini, P. Crop Estimation of Grapes. Fact Sheet - Agriculture and Natural Resources 2011, Stage I, 1–2. Available online 
at https://ohiograpeweb.cfaes.ohio-state.edu/sites/grapeweb/files/imce/pdf_factsheets/Crop%20Estimation%20FS.pdf. 
8. 
Clingeleffer, P.; Dunn, G.; Krstic, M.; Martin, S. Crop Development, Crop Estimation and Crop Control to Secure Quality and Produc-
tion of Major Wine Grape Varieties: A National Approach; Technical Report; Grape and Wine Research & Development Corporation 
2001. Victoria, Australia. 
9. 
Bramley, R.; Ouzman, J.; Boss, P.K. Variation in vine vigour, grape yield and vineyard soils and topography as indicators of 
variation in the chemical composition of grapes, wine and wine sensory attributes. Aust. J. Grape Wine Res. 2011, 17, 217–229. 
https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1755-0238.2011.00136.x . 
10. 
Taylor, J.A.; Dresser, J.L.; Hickey, C.C.; Nuske, S.T.; Bates, T.R. Considerations on spatial crop load mapping. Aust. J. Grape Wine 
Res. 2018, 25, 144–155. https://doi.org/10.1111/ajgw.12378. 
11. 
Keller, M. Managing grapevines to optimise fruit development in a challenging environment: A climate change primer for 
viticulturists. Aust. J. Grape Wine Res. 2010, 67, 426–435. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1755-0238.2009.00077.x. 
12. 
Ojeda, H.; Deloire, A.; Carbonneau, A. Influence of water deficits on grape berry growth. Vitis 2001, 40, 141–145. 
13. 
Coombe, B.G.; Mccarthy, M.G. Dynamics of grape berry growth and physiology of ripening. Aust. J. Grape Wine Res. 2000, 6, 
131–135. 
14. 
Araya-Alman, M.; Leroux, C.; Acevedo-Opazo, C.; Guillaume, S.; Valdés-Gómez, H.; Verdugo-Vásquez, N.; Pañitrur-De la 
Fuente, C.; Tisseyre, B. A new localized sampling method to improve grape yield estimation of the current season using yield 
historical data. Precis. Agric. 2019, 20, 445–459. 
15. 
Carrillo, E.; Matese, A.; Rousseau, J.; Tisseyre, B. Use of multi-spectral airborne imagery to improve yield sampling in viticul-
ture. Precis. Agric. 2016, 17, 74–92. 
16. 
Nuske, S.; Achar, S.; Bates, T.; Narasimhan, S.; Singh, S. Yield estimation in vineyards by visual grape detection. In Proceedings 
of the 2011 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, San Francisco, CA, USA, 25–30 September 
2011; pp. 2352–2358. https://doi. org/10.1109/IROS.2011.6095069 (accessed on 17 April 2022). 
17. 
Barriguinha, A.; de Castro Neto, M.; Gil, A. Vineyard yield estimation, prediction, and forecasting: A systematic literature re-
view. Agronomy 2021, 11, 1789. https://doi.org/10.3390/agronomy11091789 . 

Agronomy 2022, 12, 1464 
20 of 21 
 
 
18. 
Sun, L.; Gao, F.; Anderson, M.C.; Kustas, W.P.; Alsina, M.M.; Sanchez, L.; Sams, B.; McKee, L.; Dulaney, W.; White, W.A.; et al. 
Daily mapping of 30 m LAI and NDVI for grape yield prediction in California vineyards. Remote Sens. 2017, 9, 317. 
19. 
Besselat, B. Les prévisions de récolte en viticulture. OENO One 1987, 21, 1–12. https://doi.org/10.20870/oeno-one.1987.21.1.1270. 
20. 
Cunha, M.; Ribeiro, H.; Abreu, I. Pollen-based predictive modelling of wine production: Application to an arid region. Eur. J. 
Agron. 2016, 73, 42–54. 
21. 
Tarara, J.M.; Chaves, B.; Sanchez, L.A.; Dokoozlian, N.K. Use of cordon wire tension for static and dynamic prediction of grape-
vine yield. Am. J. Enol. Vitic. 2014, 65, 443–452. 
22. 
Fraga, H.; Santos, J.A. Daily prediction of seasonal grapevine production in the Douro wine region based on favourable mete-
orological conditions. Aust. J. Grape Wine Res. 2017, 23, 296–304. 
23. 
Henry, D.; Aubert, H.; Véronèse, T. Proximal Radar Sensors for Precision Viticulture. IEEE Trans. Geosci. Remote Sens. 2019, 57, 
4624–4635. 
24. 
Parr, B.; Legg, M.; Bradley, S.; Alam, F. Occluded grape cluster detection and vine canopy visualisation using an ultrasonic 
phased array. Sensors 2021, 21, 2182. . 
25. 
Lopes, C.M.; Cadima, J. Grapevine bunch weight estimation using image-based features: Comparing the predictive perfor-
mance of number of visible berries and bunch area. OENO One 2021, 55, 209–226. 
26. 
Aquino, A.; Millan, B.; Gaston, D.; Diago, M.-P.; Tardaguila, J. vitisFlower®: Development and Testing of a Novel Android- 
Smartphone Application for Assessing the Number of Grapevine Flowers per Inflorescence Using Artificial Vision Techniques. 
Sensors 2015, 15, 21204–21218. 
27. 
Liu, S.; Zeng, X.; Whitty, M. A vision-based robust grape berry counting algorithm for fast calibration-free bunch weight esti-
mation in the field. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2020, 173, 105360. 
28. 
Millan, B.; Velasco-Forero, S.; Aquino, A.; Tardaguila, J. On-the-go grapevine yield estimation using image analysis and boolean 
model. J. Sens. 2018, 2018, 9634752. 
29. 
Nuske, S.; Wilshusen, K.; Achar, S.; Yoder, L.; Narasimhan, S.; Singh, S. Automated Visual Yield Estimation in Vineyards. J. 
Field Robot. 2014, 31, 996–996. 
30. 
Roscher, R.; Herzog, K.; Kunkel, A.; Kicherer, A.; Töpfer, R.; Förstner, W. Automated image analysis framework for high-
throughput determination of grapevine berry sizes using conditional random fields. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2014, 100, 148–158. 
31. 
Mirbod, O.; Yoder, L.; Nuske, S. Automated Measurement of Berry Size in Images. IFAC-PapersOnLine 2016, 49, 79–84. 
32. 
Torres-Sánchez, J.; Mesas-Carrascosa, F.J.; Santesteban, L.-G.; Jiménez-Brenes, F.M.; Oneka, O.; Villa-Llop, A.; Loidi, M.; López-
Granados, F. Grape Cluster Detection Using UAV Photogrammetric Point Clouds as a Low-Cost Tool for Yield Forecasting in 
Vineyards. Sensors 2021, 21, 3083. 
33. 
Pérez-Zavala, R.; Torres-Torriti, M.; Cheein, F.A.; Troni, G. A pattern recognition strategy for visual grape bunch detection in 
vineyards. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2018, 151, 136–149. 
34. 
Milella, A.; Marani, R.; Petitti, A.; Reina, G. In-field high throughput grapevine phenotyping with a consumer-grade depth 
camera. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2019, 156, 293–306. 
35. 
Herrero-Huerta, M.; González-Aguilera, D.; Rodriguez-Gonzalvez, P.; Hernández-López, D. Vineyard yield estimation by au-
tomatic 3D bunch modelling in field conditions. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2015, 110, 17–26. 
36. 
Hacking, C.; Poona, N.; Manzan, N.; Poblete-Echeverria, C. Investigating 2-D and 3-D Proximal Remote Sensing Techniques for 
Vineyard Yield Estimation. Sensors 2019, 19, 3652. 
37. 
Liu, S.; Cossell, S.; Tang, J.; Dunn, G.; Whitty, M. A computer vision system for early stage grape yield estimation based on 
shoot detection. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2017, 137, 88–101. 
38. 
Nuske, S.; Gupta, K.; Narasimhan, S.; Singh, S. Modeling and calibrating visual yield estimates in vineyards. In Field and Service 
Robotics; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2014; pp. 343–356. 
39. 
Íñiguez, R.; Palacios, F.; Barrio, I.; Guti, S. Impact of Leaf Occlusions on Yield Assessment by Computer Vision in Commercial 
Vineyards. Agronomy 2021, 11, 3. https://doi. org/10.3390/agronomy11051003 (accessed on 17 April 2022). 
40. 
Victorino, G.; Braga, R.; Santos-Victor, J.; Lopes, C. Yield components detection and image-based indicators for non-invasive 
grapevine yield prediction at different phenological phases. OENO One 2020, 25, 833. 
41. 
Kierdorf, J.; Weber, I.; Kicherer, A.; Zabawa, L.; Drees, L.; Roscher, R. Behind the leaves—Estimation of occluded grapevine 
berries with conditional generative adversarial networks. Front. Artif. Intell. 2022, 5, 830026. 
42. 
Victorino, G.; Braga, R.P.; Santos-Victor, J.; Lopes, C.M. Overcoming the challenge of bunch occlusion by leaves for vineyard 
yield estimation using image analysis. OENO One 2022, 56, 117–131. 
43. 
Diago, M.P.; Krasnow, M.; Bubola, M.; Millan, B.; Tardaguila, J. Assessment of vineyard canopy porosity using machine vision. 
Am. J. Enol. Vitic. 2016, 67, 229–238. 
44. 
Smart, R.E. Influence of light on composition and quality of grapes. Acta Hortic. 1987, 206, 37–48. 
45. 
Victorino, G.; Poblete-Echeverria, C.; Lopes, C.M. A Multicultivar Approach for Grape Bunch Weight Estimation Using Image 
Analysis. Horticulturae 2022, 8, 233. 
46. 
OIV Organisation Internationale de la Vigne et du Vin. Description of World Vine Varieties, 2nd ed.; 2009. Available online: 
http://www.oiv.int/en/technicalstandards-and-documents/description-of-grape-varieties/oiv-descriptor-list-for-grape-varie-
ties-and-vitis-species-2ndedition (accessed on 17 April 2022). 
47. 
Tello, J.; Cubero, S.; Blasco, J.; Tardaguila, J.; Aleixos, N.; Ibáñez, J. Application of 2D and 3D image technologies to characterise 
morphological attributes of grapevine clusters. J. Sci. Food Agric. 2016, 96, 4575–4583. https://doi.org/10.1002/jsfa.7675. 

Agronomy 2022, 12, 1464 
21 of 21 
 
 
48. 
Cubero, S.; Diago, M.P.; Blasco, J.; Tardaguila, J.; Prats-Montalbán, J.M.; Ibáñez, J.; Tello, J.; Aleixos, N. A new method for as-
sessment of bunch compactness using automated image analysis. Aust. J. Grape Wine Res. 2015, 21, 101–109. 
49. 
Lopes, C.; Torres, A.; Guzman, R.; Graca, J.; Reyes, M.; Victorino, G.; Braga, R.; Monteiro, A.; Barriguinha, A. Using an un-
manned ground vehicle to scout vineyards for non-intrusive estimation of canopy features and grape yield. In Proceedings of 
the 20th GiESCO International Meeting, Mendoza, Argentina, 5–9 November 2017; Volume 2, pp. 16–21. 
50. 
Lopes, C.; Graça, J.; Sastre, J.; Reyes, M.; Guzman, R.; Braga, R.; Monteiro, A.; Pinto, P. Vineyard yield estimation by vinbot 
robot—Preliminary results with the white variety Viosinho. In Proceedings of the 11th International Terroir Congress, McMin-
nville, OR, USA, 10–14 July 2016; p. 516. 
51. 
Lopes, C.M.; Egipto, R.; Zarrouk, O.; Chaves, M.M. Carry-over effects on bud fertility makes early defoliation a risky crop-
regulating practice in Mediterranean vineyards. Aust. J. Grape Wine Res. 2020, 26, 290–299. https://doi. org/10.1111/ajgw.12437 
(accessed on 15 May 2022). 
52. 
Krasnow, M.N.; Matthews, M.A.; Smith, R.J.; Benz, J.; Weber, E.; Shackel, K.A. Distinctive symptoms differentiate four common 
types of berry shrivel disorder in grape. Calif. Agric. 2010, 64, 155–159. https://doi.org/10.3733/ca.v064n03p155 (accessed on 15 
May 2022). 
53. 
EUROSTAT. Vineyard in the EU—Statistics. Available online: https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/statistics-explained/index.php?ti-
tle=Vineyards_in_the_EU_-_statistics#Older_vines_dominated_the_vineyards_in_the_EU (accessed on 10 May 2022). 
54. 
Gambetta, J.M.; Holzapfel, B.P.; Stoll, M.; Friedel, M. Sunburn in Grapes: A Review. Front. Plant Sci. 2021, 11, 2123. 
https://doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2020.604691. 
55. 
Lu, D.; Weng, Q. A survey of image classification methods and techniques for improving classification performance. Int. J. 
Remote Sens. 2007, 28, 823–870. https://doi.org/10.1080/01431160600746456. 
56. 
Tello, J.; Ibáñez, J. What do we know about grapevine bunch compactness? A state-of-the-art review. Aust. J. Grape Wine Res. 
2018, 24, 6–23. 
57. 
Bramley, R.G.V.; Hamilton, R.P. Understanding variability in winegrape production systems 2. Within vineyard variation in 
quality over several vintages. Aust. J. Grape Wine Res. 2004, 10, 32–45. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1755-0238.2004.tb00006.x. 
 
