Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 204 (2023) 107513
Available online 20 December 2022
0168-1699/© 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/compag
Original papers
Apple orchard production estimation using deep learning strategies: A
comparison of tracking-by-detection algorithms
Juan Villacrés a, Michelle Viscaino b, José Delpiano c, Stavros Vougioukas a,
Fernando Auat Cheein b,∗
a Department of Biological and Agricultural Engineering, University of California, Davis, USA
b Department of Electronic Engineering, Universidad Técnica Federico Santa María, Valparaiso, Chile
c Department of Engineering, Universidad de los Andes, Santiago, Chile
A R T I C L E
I N F O
Keywords:
Apple counting
Tracking-by-detection
Faster R-CNN
YoloV5
Multi-object tracking
A B S T R A C T
The automated detection and counting of fruit in tree canopies is a key component of yield estimation
systems, which are indispensable for the precision management of modern orchards. Detection and counting
tasks in agricultural environments are not trivial because of challenges such as characteristics of the tree
canopies, occlusion caused by leaves and the lighting conditions, among other factors. With the aim of
identifying which algorithm is more suitable for yield estimation, we present a comprehensive comparison
of tracking-by-detection algorithms, applied to apple counting. The tracking strategies evaluated were Kalman
Filter, Kernelized Correlation Filter, Simple Online Real-Time Tracking, Multi Hypothesis Tracking, and Deep
Simple Online Real-Time Tracking. The five tracking algorithms were further assessed on two novel databases
constructed for this research in Multiple Object Tracking MOT format. After a sensitivity analysis of the
trackers, the results show that the most robust approach is the Multiple Hypothesis Tracking, followed by
the Deep Simple Online Realtime (DeepSORT), with a MOT accuracy of 97.00% and 93.00%, respectively,
when having perfect detection. However, in an application case including a deep learning-based detection
stage, the DeepSORT tracker obtains the lowest counting error, which on average for all videos is 20.07%
and 31.52% when using YoloV5 and Faster R-CNN as detection strategies. Statistically similar results were
obtained using the Kalman Filter with a counting error of 20.5% and 31.9% when detecting fruit with YoloV5
and Faster R-CNN.
1. Introduction
Automated yield estimation in fruit or vegetable fields enables
better resource management in harvesting, storage and transportation.
In the absence of automated yield estimation systems in fruit crops, or-
chard managers use manual fruit counting by randomly choosing a few
samples of tree branches, performing the counting, and extrapolating
the results to the entire orchard blocks (Häni et al., 2020). Although
this method is simple, it is time-consuming and error-prone up to
66% (Meena et al., 2014). Therefore, developing automated systems for
fruit load estimation is a significant challenge in precision agriculture
to achieve higher productivity (Meena et al., 2014). Computer vision is
the prevailing method to estimate fruit load. One or more cameras are
typically carried along the orchard rows, and consecutive frames of the
tree canopies are processed to detect and count fruit, while avoiding
the same fruit multiple times. The main tasks involved in computer
vision-based fruit load estimation include detecting, counting, and
∗Corresponding author.
E-mail address: fernando.auat@usm.cl (F. Auat Cheein).
tracking fruit in multiple images. These tasks can be addressed as
individual tasks or as a more complex scheme that involves an end-
to-end processing pipeline. Regardless of the approach, detection and
counting depend on the characteristics of agricultural environments,
such as variations in illumination, complex backgrounds, occlusions
produced by leaves, branches, or between fruit, camera’s distance, and
viewing (Tian et al., 2019; Kang and Chen, 2020; Villacrés and Cheein,
2020).
Technological advances in visual sensors and improved computer
vision techniques have enabled the development of efficient detection
strategies. The detection sensor of choice has been the RGB (red,
green and blue) camera, partly because of its low cost and ease of
implementation (Koirala et al., 2019a). Early work on fruit detection
was based on handcrafted features extracted from images. However, the
unstructured conditions of the agricultural environment require robust
features that should not need to be redesigned when visual changes
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2022.107513
Received 29 March 2022; Received in revised form 10 November 2022; Accepted 18 November 2022

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 204 (2023) 107513
2
J. Villacrés et al.
occur in the object to be detected (e.g., changes in fruit ripeness). A
detailed description of the platforms, sensors and methods for indirect
and direct estimation of orchard yield are presented in He et al. (2022).
In general, detection strategies for yield estimation exhibit bet-
ter results when supervised learning is used instead of simple image
processing with handcrafted features (e.g., fruit color, texture, and
shape) (Koirala et al., 2019a). In Roy and Bhaduri (2022), fruit detec-
tion in critical conditions such as occluded scenarios is addressed by
the fusion of YoloV4 with a DenseNet as a backbone to detect mangoes.
The results exhibited a mean average precision (mAP) of 96.20% and
an F1-score of 93.61%, showing higher performance than the state-
of-the-art YoloV4 detector (Roy and Bhaduri, 2022). Another custom
detection architecture for fruit counting is MangoYolo (Koirala et al.,
2019b). MangoYolo utilizes the YoloV3 and YoloV2(tiny) architec-
tures to achieve fast and accurate detections. MangoYolo outperformed
YoloV3, YoloV2(tiny), Faster R-CNN (VGG) and Faster R-CNN (ZF) in
detection speed and accuracy, as well as memory usage. Given the fast
detection speed of Yolo-based detectors, these architectures can be used
in computationally constrained applications (e.g., embedded systems)
and under the requirement of real-time execution. For example, Zhang
et al. (2022) published a study in which an embedded system (Jetson
Nano) was used to identify strawberries in real-time. The architectures
employed were YoloV4(tiny) and a modified version of itself—the
authors dubbed the architecture RTSD-Net (Zhang et al., 2022). In the
case of multi-class detection (i.e., fruit varieties), Vasconez et al. (2020)
presented the relative error for the count of avocados, apples, and
lemons. In this work, the authors obtained a relative error – the ratio of
the absolute error in the estimate and the actual value – of 7%, 13%,
and 20% using Faster R-CNN; and 18%, 10%, and 25% using Single
Shot Detector (SSD) for avocados, apple, and lemons, respectively.
Additionally, Wan and Goudos (2020) reported that a modification of
Faster R-CNN achieved a mAP above 91%, which is better than YoloV3,
in detecting apples, oranges and mangoes.
Although the detection stage in the processing pipeline for auto-
mated fruit load estimation has seen rapid advances culminating in
deep learning strategies, the counting part is still under development,
with several challenges to overcome. One of the main drawbacks of
image-based fruit counting lies in the fact that fruit yield estimation
requires a set of images that, if not handled properly, may overlap,
resulting in yield overestimation. Therefore, it is necessary to develop
an accurate solution for processing image sequences, such as the ones
found in videos. A viable solution is to use a sequence of images that
do not overlap. Such non-overlapping prevents the fruit from being
detected multiple times because it is only visible in a single frame (Vil-
lacrés and Cheein, 2020). As a result, the total fruit load corresponds to
the number of fruits detected in the non-overlapping image sequence.
In particular, this non-overlap is achieved by moving the camera at a
constant speed during acquisition and selecting an appropriate subsam-
pling frequency (Hung et al., 2015). In this approach, errors in sampling
frequency selection or non-constant speed during data acquisition can
lead to overlaps between images and subsequently, counting some fruit
multiple times. A disadvantage of non-overlapping images is that not
all fruit are likely to be visible from the camera’s perspective. Another
approach being explored in recent years is to assign a unique identifier
to each fruit/vegetable along the image sequence. This approach is
known as multiple object tracking (MOT) and is predominantly used for
pedestrian tracking. Several databases exist for pedestrian MOT, such
as MOT15, MOT16, and MOT17. In these databases, the ground truth
for each pedestrian consists of a bounding box and a unique identifier
(ID) (Dendorfer et al., 2021). Such databases can be obtained from
stationary surveillance cameras or moving cameras. Since the fruit in
canopies are essentially static, creating and processing videos acquired
with a moving camera is necessary. To the best of our knowledge, there
are no public databases to compare the performance of MOT algorithms
on fruit. Therefore, it becomes difficult to evaluate the performance of
MOT in agriculture. The main contributions of this paper are:
• The creation of a public dataset for multiple object tracking for
apples.
• The analysis of the sensitivity of several algorithms for multiple
object tracking in an agricultural environment.
• The evaluation of the feasibility of MOT algorithms in a real
application for fruit counting.
This work is organized as follows: Section 2 presents the algorithms
used in the context of multiple object tracking to count fruit and how
missing fruit was handled in the tracking process; Section 3 includes
the databases used, as well the tracking algorithms. Section 4 presents
the results obtained in the sensitivity analysis and an application task;
Section 5 depicts the discussion of the results, and finally, Section 6
includes the conclusions obtained in this research.
2. Related work
With the advancement of image processing techniques – particu-
larly frameworks based on deep neural networks –, the detection and
counting of fruit in images has improved. However, it is necessary to
consider other challenges, such as fruit recounting in a sequence of
images – i.e., a video. Fruit tracking is conducted through single-view
or multiple-view images – the latter aim to tackle occlusion caused
by branches, leaves, and even other fruit. Below, we list recent works
employing tracking strategies for fruit counting in image sequences.
2.1. Single-view cameras
Hamuda et al. (2018) proposes the use of a Kalman filter (KF) to
estimate the centers of the bounding boxes of cauliflower plants, and
Hungarian algorithm (HA) for data association in consequent images.
The reported MOT results outperformed those obtained with optical
flow, 99.34% vs 97.28% recall, respectively. A tracker is removed if
the object in the frame is missed more times than a defined threshold;
in this case, Hamuda et al. (2018) defined it as 10. In addition, if the
object is not detected and with thresholds below 10, tracking was per-
formed using the Kalman filter predictions. The Kalman filter was also
applied by Wang et al. (2019) to predict the states of bounding boxes
obtained with Yolo for mango detection. The Hungarian algorithm was
used to perform tracking using the multiple-to-one assignment. The
authors found in practice that the Kalman filter prediction model was
effective if there were at least four contiguous measurements. In the
absence of adjacent measures, the velocity of neighboring fruit was
used, and if there were no ‘‘stable’’ neighbors, a constant velocity
criterion was applied. Once a ‘‘stable’’ model was obtained, a prediction
of up to 15 frames from the last fruit detection was performed. One
of the noteworthy drawbacks of using the Kalman Filter is that most
papers generally consider a model in which the velocity is constant over
a time interval. Such a model could be affected in case of vibrations
during data acquisition. On the other hand, the Kalman Filter could be
suitable in scenarios where there are occlusions because it only depends
on the object’s motion; this means that the Kalman Filter predictions
could be used to estimate the object’s position in the following frames.
However, the predictions may not be as reliable if there are not enough
new measurements to update the Kalman filter. Jarvinen et al. (2018)
obtained a mean error of 11% in apple counting when using optical
flow as the tracking strategy. The authors used Faster R-CNN architec-
ture to detect apples, and the intersection over the union criterion for
matching detections. Optical flow was used to estimate pixel motion
instead of object motion. Once the translation of a frame at instant 𝑡
and time 𝑡+ 1 was determined, the fruit detections were translated and
associated with the new detections. In the scenarios where apples were
missing (i.e., not detected with Faster R-CNN), the bounding boxes were
translated considering the displacement obtained with optical flow. A
disadvantage of using Optical Flow in tracking tasks is that Optical Flow
cannot adequately deal with situations where occlusions are present.

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 204 (2023) 107513
3
J. Villacrés et al.
Such translations of the detections were repeated until the bounding
boxes reached the boundary of the image. Similarly, Gan et al. (2018)
used the Faster R-CNN to detect citrus in thermal imaging. They applied
optical flow to avoid overcounting fruit, with an average accuracy
of 87.2%. In Vasconez et al. (2020), a comprehensive evaluation of
fruit detection and counting was conducted; bayesian filtering allowed
multiple fruit (apples, lemons, and avocado) tracking across 2, 15, 30,
60, and 100 frames. Other work presented by Liu et al. (2018) used the
Hungarian algorithm to track apples and oranges in image sequences.
Instead of using Euclidean distance as the objective function, they
used a Kalman filter-based cost function improved with optical flow.
In addition, the authors corrected the number of counted fruit using
the 3D map based on structure from motion (SfM). Fruit counting was
performed only when a predefined age was exceeded, and such fruit
was added to the final count at the time it disappeared. This means that
if a fruit reappears, it is possible that the count will be increased. In Hal-
stead et al. (2018), an empirical approach was proposed for tracking
sweet peppers, which employed the intersection over union (IoU) track-
ing strategy and the Faster R-CNN detector. The errors in tracking green
peppers, mixed peppers and red peppers were 11.2%, 1.8% and 0.9%,
respectively. The tracker was considered inactive if it was not detected
for three frames and was therefore removed. The counting of apples and
oranges was addressed by Xia et al. (2022), Gao et al. (2022), where
the fruit detection is performed with the CenterNet architecture. The
work employed the patches detected by the CenterNet, resized them to
a fixed size, and used them as inputs to a matching network. Such a
matching network concatenates two patches and obtains a similarity
metric. However, this process is expensive because it must compare
all patches against each other in a brute-force manner. The optimal
association of the detected fruit along contiguous frames was performed
with the Hungarian algorithm (i.e., the Kuhn–Munkres algorithm). The
results presented showed a coefficient of determination of 0.937 and
0.9562 for apples and oranges, respectively. Another fruit-tracking
approach is the kernelized correlation filter (KCF), which outperforms
the Kalman filter-based tracker when tracking green fruits (Zhang et al.,
2020). In particular, the KCF achieved an average tracking success
of 94.07%, 87.35%, and 61.46% when tracking one, two, and three
apples, respectively. The Kalman and Kernelized Correlation filters are
strategies that achieve real-time implementation. However, the KCF
was the faster among the two. A disadvantage of the Kalman filter is
that when oscillations occur, it is possible that the object appears and
disappears, which is reflected in the Kalman filter not being able to
maintain the previous tracking state. In addition to using RGB images,
representations such as the NDVI index were used to classify tomatoes
by maturity stage (Chen and Lin, 2020). And subsequently, track unique
identifiers to avoid repetition in tomato counting using Simple Online
and Realtime Tracking (SORT) and DeepSORT. In summary, DeepSORT
slightly outperformed the SORT tracker in terms of Multiple Object
Tracking Precision (MOTP). It is important to note that the advantage of
SORT over DeepSORT is the speed of execution of the algorithm, mainly
because SORT uses only a linear model of the object motion. Whereas,
DeepSORT also includes a descriptor of the object’s appearance. An
alternative for apple counting was presented by Gao et al. (2021),
where tree trunks were considered as the tracking target instead of
apples. The main reason for tracking the trunk was that it was larger
than the fruit and had the same trajectory as the apples. Therefore, the
fruit is detected and the movement of the trunk is used to estimate the
movement of the fruit. However, a drawback of this approach is that if
the trunk is not visible (e.g., cases of occlusion by leaves or fruits if the
camera points directly at the fruits), the tracking could not be carried
out.
2.2. Multiple-view cameras
As for the multiple view systems, Häni et al. (2020) used two image
sequences, the first corresponding to a front view of an orchard row
and the second corresponding to the rear view of the same orchard
row. A 3D reconstruction represented as a semi-dense point cloud
was obtained using the semantic information of the two sequences.
The algorithm for the 3D reconstruction using the two views of the
same orchard row is described in Roy et al. (2018). Such a point
cloud was projected onto each camera frame, and the counting was
performed on the three frames containing the most pixels belonging
to apples. Thus, if apples are missing in some frames, they were not
recounted because the point cloud is used as a reference. Counting
of mangoes using two cameras with opposite side views of the trees
was presented by Liu et al. (2019), where the problem was posed as a
Multi Hypothesis Tracking task. The two views allowed the creation of
two point clouds for each row; therefore, it was necessary to integrate
the point clouds to avoid double counting. The authors point out that
the centroid of the tree (i.e., the trunk) was used to separate the tree
into two parts. Consequently, only fruits on the side closest to the
trunk are counted; in this way, the results indicated that overcounting
was reduced. Mango detection was achieved with the Faster R-CNN
framework, and fruit and trunk tracking was implemented with the
Kalman filter and optical flow. Such tracking was developed in two
stages; in the second stage, detections missed in the intermediate frames
were processed. A total of 18 trees were analyzed, and the per-tree
count error mean obtained was 27.8 and 19.8 for using the single-view
and multiple-view systems, respectively. Stein et al. (2016) addressed
mango counting by employing single-view, dual-view, and multi-view
methods. The detection of mangoes was carried out using a faster R-
CNN framework approached the detection of mangoes using a faster
R-CNN framework. They then used GPS/INS information to obtain
the absolute and relative position of the camera; the mango tracking
was addressed using epipolar geometry and the Hungarian algorithm.
Detections with no association were eliminated as they were considered
false positives, and the results suggest that the proposed multi-view
methodology counted even fruit that were hidden from two opposing
dual views. The results of the multi-view method indicated that there
is a 1.36% counting error for individual trees.
The works mentioned above addressed different tracking strategies
for fruit counting. However, there is no benchmark for comparison
among them. Each approach performs tracking under various condi-
tions such as illumination, duration of the image sequence, degree
of occlusion, number of fruit, and evaluation metrics. One reason
is the lack of a public database to evaluate the performance of the
trackers; instead, efforts have focused on developing databases for
detection. Additionally, the works have employed private databases
or even evaluated their experiments under ideal laboratory conditions
(i.e., controlled conditions of illumination or low or no occlusion).
In this work, we evaluate five state-of-the-art trackers, with appli-
cation in agriculture: Kalman filter, kernelized correlation filter (KFC),
multi hypothesis tracking (MHT), simple online real-time tracking
(SORT), and DeepSORT. We also built a database for performance
evaluation, which it can be used as a benchmark for future tracking
algorithms. Since our approach uses the tracking-by-detection frame-
work, we include a sensitivity analysis to evaluate the robustness of
the trackers to detector performance.
3. Materials and methods
The general architecture employed in this work is presented in
Fig. 1. Briefly, the input consists of a sequence of images acquired with
a handheld camera facing the apple trees. These images pass through
a generic fruit detection system that determines the apples’ locations
in the image frame. Next, bounding boxes, generated in the previous
part, are used to track the images with a set of tracking algorithms.
Finally, the output corresponds to the apples tracked across the frames,
including the unique identifier.

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 204 (2023) 107513
4
J. Villacrés et al.
Fig. 1. General tracking scheme. The videos are acquired then the apples are identified by each image. Finally, the object tracker uses the bounding boxes and also image features.
Table 1
Summary of databases used for the object detector pipelines in the case study.
Video name
Resolution
FPS
# Frames
# Object instances
# Apples
T1
1920 × 1080
30
1290
48,111
939
T2
1920 × 1080
30
1170
45,855
849
T3
1280 × 720
120
4589
114,850
624
T4
1280 × 720
120
4445
159,574
1033
T5
1280 × 720
120
2388
68,722
519
T6
1280 × 720
120
3306
129,588
674
T7
1920 × 1080
30
1459
55,443
1693
T8
1920 × 1080
30
1841
58,145
1782
T9
1280 × 720
120
5523
176,236
1092
Total
–
–
26,011
856,524
8845
3.1. Databases description
The databases that were used in this study are listed below. The first
database, which contains videos labeled in MOT format, was acquired
for this research. The second is a group of public databases for apple
detection.
3.1.1. Tracking data sets
The two tracking data sets were collected in 2016 and 2021, re-
spectively, from an orchard located in California, USA (38◦03′55.4′′N
121◦11′45.4′′W). The images were obtained with a handheld camera
in vertical orientation while a person walks down the row. The videos
obtained in 2016 were acquired with an iPhone 6s plus, a 12-megapixel
camera, an aperture of f/2.2, and optical stabilization. On the other
hand, the 2021 videos were taken with an iPhone 13, which has a
12-megapixel camera, three lenses with apertures of f/2.8, f/1.8 and
f/1.5, and optical image stabilization. The databases used to assess the
multiple object trackers are presented below.
• The first apple tracking database (2016) consists of nine videos.
Table 1 shows the main characteristic such as the resolution,
frames per second, and the number of frames of each video. As
can be seen, the number of frames is different from each video
due to the videos having different duration.
• The second apple tracking database (2021) is composed of seven
videos with a resolution of 1920 × 1080, 30 fps, and 1 min
per video. As a result, a total of 1800 frames per video are
obtained. Fig. 2(a)–2(g), present one snapshot of each video. In
addition, Fig. 2(h) represents the apple location distribution with
respect the camera frame. The majority of the apples are clustered
in the middle to the top half of the photos, as can be observed in
Fig. 2(h). Generally, the lower part corresponds to the tree trunk
or ground. On the other hand, Fig. 3 is a violin plot of the width,
height, and area of the labeled bounding boxes. The violin plot
generally represents the median, interquartile ranges, and data
distribution.
The speed at which the videos were acquired was not recorded
accurately (e.g., with an RTK). However, Fig. 4 presents an analysis
of the velocity using optical flow with the Lucas–Kanade method. This
figure depicts the mean and variance of the translation between frames
expressed as the magnitude of optical flow. It is important to note that
in the worst case (i.e., video 2 acquired in 2021), the variance does not
exceed 14% of the mean velocity.
All videos were labeled in MOT format using the Computer Vision
Annotation Tool (CVAT).1 In general, the MOT format, as given by
the CVAT tool is: [frame, ID, x, y, w, h, Cf, C, v] where: frame, is the
number of the frame; ID, is the unique identifier across the entire video
sequence; x, y, w and h are the bounding box coordinates left, top,
width, and height, respectively; Cf, is the confidence; C is the class
identifier; and v, is the visibility. The class identifier in all the databases
is 1, since there is only one class. In addition, considering that the
data represents the ground-truth, the confidence and visibility are set
as 1. Sometimes, if the apple is greenish, it could be confused with the
leaves. However, unlike image labeling, video provides the advantage
that eventually, the apple will be visible in a particular frame. With
that knowledge, human labeling can return to previous frames to draw
the corresponding bounding box.
3.1.2. Detection datasets
In Section 4.2, there is an application test for apple counting. In
that case, an object detector must provide the bounding boxes as input
to the tracking algorithms. For the application to be as realistic as
possible, the detection model must generalize to images not seen in
training and validation. We employ three public databases to train the
object detector to ensure a complete de-correlation of the detection and
tracking datasets. The three public databases containing RGB images of
apples are presented below:
• The MinneApple dataset was collected between 2015 and 2016 at
the University of Minnesota Horticultural Research Center. This
dataset consists of 1000 images with a resolution of 720 × 1080
pixels and more than 41,000 apples. The number of object in-
stances (apples) per image ranges from 1 to 120, with 41.2 apples
on average. The format of ground truth is given in the form of
masks (Hani et al., 2020).
1 https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/cvat

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 204 (2023) 107513
5
J. Villacrés et al.
Fig. 2. Snapshots of videos taken in 2021 and subsequently used to perform the sensitivity analysis. (a–g) Depicts one frame from each video annotated from 1 to 7, and (h) a
summary of the distribution of apples in the seven video tracks. The more yellow the color tone, the more apples were observed throughout the video. Frames per second of the
videos correspond to 30 fps.
Fig. 3. Violin plot of the width, height and area of labeled apples in the database used for the sensitivity analysis. The white circles represent the median of the distribution, the
thick gray line represents the interquartile range while the thin gray line shows 1.5 times the interquartile range.
Fig. 4. Summary of the velocity in all the videos that make up the database based on the magnitude of optical flow. The mean is expressed as a red square, and the variance is
depicted as a blue vertical bar.
• The WSU dataset was created by Washington State University’s
Agricultural Automation and Robotics Laboratory. It encompasses
2298 images of apple trees with fruit captured in different light
conditions, including artificial illumination (Bhusal et al., 2019).
The apples are labeled in bounding box format. In particular,
this research uses the data named as ‘‘Crop Load Estimation’’,
which corresponds to 238 images whose image resolutions are
1494 × 1992 and 2976 × 3968.
• The Fuji-SfM dataset was collected in Catalonia, Spain by the
Research group in AgroICT & Precision Agriculture at Lleida
University (Gené-Mola et al., 2020). The images were acquired
with a resolution of 5184 × 3456; however, the authors extracted
sub-images of 1024 × 1024. In total, there are 231 sub-images and
57 images for training and validation, respectively. The ground
truth is provided in polygonal format.

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 204 (2023) 107513
6
J. Villacrés et al.
Table 2
Summary of the number of images that are part of
the databases used to train and validate the object
detectors.
Data name
Train
Validation
MinneApple
670
330
WSU
166
72
Fuji-SfM
231
57
Total
1067
459
Considering that the three public databases have different anno-
tations formats, we converted the labels to a bounding box format.
Table 2 summarizes the data distribution for the training and validation
sets used with the object detectors.
3.2. Fruit detection
After defining the databases for the detection stage, we show below
a brief description of the meta-architectures used in this work to de-
tect apples. Deep learning-based strategies have outperformed classical
computer vision algorithms in detection tasks, with Yolo and Faster R-
CNN (and its variations) being the two widely used architectures that
have achieved the highest performance in state of the art, as detailed
in Sections 1 and 2.
3.2.1. Faster R-CNN
Ren et al. (2017) presented the Faster R-CNN for the first time, and
applied it to detect objects in RGB images. The novelty of this detector
was that the framework uses the region proposal network (RPN) to
share the feature map with the detection stage. Object detection system
ran at a rate of 5–17 frames per second using an NVIDIA Tesla K40
GPU. Fig. 5 shows a representation of the faster R-CNN applied to the
context of apple detection. An input image passes through the feature
extractor (backbone), and after a set of convolutions, a feature map is
produced. The RPN slides a convolution window; a set of anchor boxes,
defined by a scale and aspect ratio, are placed over each window; as a
result, region proposal is obtained. Such a proposed region is filtered,
considering the probability that the region contains an object. Finally,
the object identification is carried out in the same manner as with
the Fast-R-CNN (Koirala et al., 2019a). The anchor boxes used in the
original implementation by Ren et al. (2017) are k=9. On the one hand,
the authors used an aspect ratio of 1:1, 1:2, and 2:1, and on the other
hand, the scale (box area) of 128, 256, and 512 pixels. Such anchor
boxes are not defined for a particular database. Therefore, we followed
the guidelines presented by Gené-Mola et al. (2019) for apple detection;
specifically, we consider anchor boxes with an aspect ratio of 1:1 and
a scale of 4. For more details on the architecture used in Faster R-
CNN, the reader can visit the implementation provided by the Facebook
research group.2
3.2.2. Yolo
The Yolo (you only look once) object detector is a single-stage
framework, which outperforms the detection rate obtained with Faster
R-CNN. Yolo has gone through several versions, from version 1 to
version 7. The first three were developed by Redmon et al. (2016),
Redmon and Farhadi (2017), and Redmon and Farhadi (2018), respec-
tively. From YoloV4 onwards, other authors presented improvements
over YoloV3. YoloV5 is used in this work, because it is the state-of-
the-art detector of the Yolo family. Fig. 5 represents a schematic of the
Yolo meta-architecture. In brief, YoloV5 uses as backbone Cross Stage
Partial Networks (CSP) bottleneck to perform the feature extraction.
The CSP reduces the computational cost by 20% while significantly
outperforming the state-of-the-art detectors in the MS COCO object
2 https://github.com/facebookresearch/detectron2
detection database (Wang et al., 2020). The neck step combines the
features obtained in different layers of features in the backbone. In
particular, YoloV5 uses the PANet as neck, also known as a network
aggregation feature. In the last step, YoloV5 performs the detection
based on a deviation of predefined anchor boxes. YoloV5 has several
models that are defined by the number of parameters and the size of
the input. The larger the number of parameters, the better the mAP,
but the longer the inference time. For this research, we used YoloV5l,
which is the second-largest model, exceeded only by YoloV5x. Thus,
YoloV5l has 46.5 million parameters and an input size of 640 pixels.
For more details on the YoloV5l architecture, the reader can refer to
the official implementation presented by Ultralytics.3
3.3. Fruit tracking and counting
We implemented five commonly used trackers to implement the vi-
sual tracking task: Kalman filter, kernelized correlation filter, multi hy-
pothesis tracking, simple online real-time tracking (SORT), and Deep-
SORT. Such trackers achieved state-of-the-art performance in people-
tracking, and are currently used in agricultural applications, as detailed
in Section 2.
3.3.1. Kalman filter
The Kalman filter is used to estimate the dynamic behavior of each
bounding box obtained with the detector. The state vector is defined
by 𝑥𝑘and the measurement vector 𝑧𝑘at time 𝑘:
𝑥𝑘= [𝐶𝑥𝑘, 𝐶𝑦𝑘, 𝑉𝑥𝑘, 𝑉𝑦𝑘, 𝑤𝑘, ℎ𝑘
]𝑇
(1)
𝑧𝑘= [𝐶𝑥𝑘, 𝐶𝑦𝑘, 𝑤𝑘, ℎ𝑘
]𝑇
(2)
where 𝐶𝑥, 𝐶𝑦are the coordinates of the center of each bounding box,
and their corresponding velocities are 𝑉𝑥, 𝑉𝑦. The width and height
of each bounding box are depicted by 𝑤and ℎ, respectively. The
Kalman filter is initialized with the initial conditions 𝑥0 when a new
bounding box (i.e., new apple) is detected. In the next frame, state
prediction is performed. An intersection over union (IoU) cost matrix is
obtained with such state predictions and new detections. Subsequently,
the Hungarian algorithm associates the state prediction and the new
detections. The Kalman filter is updated with the new measurements.
A new tracker is initialized if the measurement is not associated with
the previous trackers. If a tracker has no associations with the new
detections for a certain number of frames, the tracker is removed.
3.3.2. Kernelized correlation filter
The kernelized correlation filter (KCF) was proposed by Henriques
et al. (2015). This framework requires an initial input sample to train
the tracker. This example consists of the image patch contained in a
bounding box. Then, features are extracted from the input example
based on the histogram of oriented gradients (HOG). The correlation
map is obtained using the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) on the target
patch. The inverse FFT is then used to obtain a confidence map in the
spatial domain. The maximum value in this confidence map predicts
the new location of the bounding box. In the next frame, the patch is
extracted, taking into account the prediction obtained in the previous
step, and the HOG features are calculated, in addition to the frequency
domain analysis. Then, the circulant matrix is applied to obtain the
Gaussian correlation in the Fourier domain between the current patch
and the patch in the previous frame. Subsequently, the new position of
the tracked object is updated, and the model has trained again with the
new position.
In the context of apple tracking, the KCF is initialized with each
apple. For multi-apple tracking, one KCF tracker per apple is required.
In addition, only one initial bounding box is needed to track in the
3 https://github.com/ultralytics/yolov5

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 204 (2023) 107513
7
J. Villacrés et al.
Fig. 5. Illustration of the apple detection process in the image sequence (i.e. video) using the Faster R-CNN and YoloV5 meta architectures.
video sequence. However, to exploit the new detections in each frame,
the IoU and the Hungarian algorithm are applied between the new
detections and the tracked apples of the previous frames to make
the respective associations. Suppose there is an association between
detection and tracking. In that case, the new detection is used as a
training example for the KCF. Otherwise, a new tracker is initialized
with each new detection. If there are no new detections, the tracker
keeps the detections in the following frames. The tracker is kept until it
can be updated with a new detection or removed for reaching a certain
number of frames without new detections.
3.3.3. Multi hypothesis tracking
Multiple hypotheses tracking (MHT) is an algorithm for the visual
tracking problem that was first proposed in 1975 (Reid, 1979) and
revisited in 2015 (Kim et al., 2015). The latter approach was proposed
as a tracking-by-detection framework using localized bounding boxes
obtained from an object detection algorithm. The revisited MHT al-
gorithm achieved comparable performance to state-of-the-art methods
on popular tracking datasets. It is now considered a baseline in visual
tracking evaluation (Kim et al., 2015).
To understand the method, some terms are defined first. Let 𝑘be the
most recent frame, and 𝑀𝑘be the number of object detections (also
called observations) in that frame 𝑘. Then, 𝑖𝑘∈[0, 1, … , 𝑀𝑘] is the
observation selected at frame 𝑘. Therefore, track hypothesis is defined
as the observation sequence 𝑖1, 𝑖2, … , 𝑖𝑘, and the global hypothesis is
a set of track hypotheses that do not share any measurements at any
time.
The MHT approach keeps multiple hypotheses active during the
entire history of a given track and stops when ambiguities of data
association are resolved. Therefore, the success of MHT depends on
the ability to maintain a reduced list of potential hypotheses. The
multiple hypotheses that originate from a single observation and re-
main active constitute a track tree. At each frame, previously existing
track trees are updated by appending new observations located in the
neighboring area. A new track tree is also constructed from each new
single observation. Then, the best global hypothesis (those without
conflict) can be found by solving a maximum weighted independent
set problem. Before continuing with the next frame, the track tree is
pruned by discarding those branches that deviate too much from the
global hypothesis. Finally, the data association problem is solved by
adopting a multi-output regularized least-squares framework (for more
details, please refer to Kim et al. (2015)).
3.3.4. Simple Online Real-Time Tracking
Simple Online Real-Time Tracking (SORT) is an algorithm for track-
ing multiple objects in applications that require real-time execution.
SORT does not include the association with appearance features to
achieve fast runtime. Instead, it considers only the motion of the
bounding box. This motion is modeled with the following state vector:
𝑥𝑘= [𝑢𝑘, 𝑣𝑘, 𝑠𝑘, 𝑟𝑘, 𝑉𝑢𝑘, 𝑉𝑣𝑘, 𝑉𝑠𝑘
]𝑇
(3)
where: the center of a bounding box at time 𝑘is represented by its
coordinates 𝑢𝑘, 𝑣𝑘; the area 𝑠𝑘, the aspect ratio 𝑟𝑘; the velocities 𝑉𝑢𝑘
and 𝑉𝑣𝑘; and the area velocity 𝑉𝑠𝑘. It is important to note that SORT
considers the aspect ratio constant. The Kalman filter optimally predicts
the position in the next frame. A data association in the subsequent
frame proceeds with the correction step if there is a data association.
In particular, the data association is based on the cost matrix obtained
with IoU and is solved by the Hungarian algorithm. For more details
on the SORT algorithm, please refer to Bewley et al. (2016).

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 204 (2023) 107513
8
J. Villacrés et al.
3.3.5. DeepSORT
The DeepSORT approach includes appearance information of each
target bounding box. The feature appearance is obtained with a convo-
lutional neural network as described in Wojke et al. (2018). Similarly
to SORT, the bounding boxes are described by a state vector, which has
eight states:
𝑥𝑘= [𝑢𝑘, 𝑣𝑘, 𝛾𝑘, ℎ𝑘, 𝑉𝑢𝑘, 𝑉𝑣𝑘, 𝑉𝛾𝑘, 𝑉ℎ𝑘
]𝑇
(4)
where: the center of a bounding box at time 𝑘is represented by its
coordinates 𝑢𝑘, 𝑣𝑘; the aspect ratio 𝛾𝑘, the height ℎ𝑘; and the other four
states are their corresponding velocities.
DeepSORT employs the Mahalanobis distance to incorporate the
motion information from the short-term Kalman filter prediction and
new detections. Additionally, the cosine distance is employed to per-
form the association concerning appearance features in cases of long-
term occlusions. The association problem is solved with a weighted sum
of the Mahalanobis distance and cosine distance followed by a matching
cascade. For more details, the reader is referred to Wojke et al. (2018).
The deep appearance descriptor was trained using a sequence of 8
frames on average and approximately 1500 apples.
3.4. Tracker sensitivity analysis
As seen in the state-of-the-art review, the performance of trackers
depends strongly on the performance (detection rate, recall or detection
probability) of the detector (Bullinger et al., 2017). In this study, a
sensitivity analysis is performed to evaluate the performance of the
tracker as the probability of fruit detection varies. Starting from a
perfect detection, that is, all the fruit are detected. Then, proceeding
to eliminate certain bounding boxes gradually. Each of the bounding
boxes in the ground truth is considered a random variable with uniform
distribution in the interval (0,1). In other words, each bounding box at
time instant k has a score between 0 and 1. Based on the score men-
tioned above, we select a rule for detecting or deleting each bounding
box. If the apple has a score less than or equal to a threshold, that
apple is considered as detected; otherwise, it is discarded. For selecting
the threshold, the following values of probability of detection were
considered: 0.2, 0.4, 0.6, 0.8, and 1. The threshold equal to 1 implies
that all the apples are deemed to be detected in the image. In addition
to considering the random elimination of detections, an analysis of the
effect of downsampling the number of frames per second by a factor
of 2, 3, and 6 is included, which would result in videos acquired at
15 fps, 10 fps, and 5 fps, respectively. The parameters used to tune the
trackers in the 15, 10, and 5 fps cases are the same as those used for the
30 fps trackers. The performance of the tracking methods depends on
the setting of these parameters. The objective of maintaining the values
set for 30 fps is to analyze how resilient the tracker is to the variation
of the frames per second.
3.5. Evaluation metrics for tracking
The MOTChallenge, launched in 2014, offers metrics that have
become standards for evaluating single-camera multiple object track-
ers (Dendorfer et al., 2021). From these metrics, Multiple Object Track-
ing Accuracy (MOTA) was chosen to evaluate the overall performance
of multiple object trackers (Dendorfer et al., 2021). MOTA includes
three different sources of error in the tracking process and is defined
below:
MOTA = 1 −
∑
𝑘
(𝑚𝑘+ 𝐹𝑃𝑘+ 𝐼𝐷𝑆𝑊𝑘
)
∑
𝑘𝐺𝑇𝑘
(5)
where 𝑘represents the frame number; 𝐺𝑇𝑘is the ground truth, which is
the number of objects in the entire video sequence; 𝑚𝑘are the missing
targets, i.e., the objects that are not detected by the tracker but appear
in the ground truth; 𝐹𝑃𝑘are the false positives, i.e., the number of
objects detected by the tracker but not currently present in the ground-
truth; and 𝐼𝐷𝑆𝑊𝑘is the number of identity switches, i.e., this metric
counts the number of times the trajectory of objects changes concerning
the ground truth.
To evaluate the fruit count, we introduce as a metric the relative
error in each frame 𝑘as follows:
𝜀𝑟𝑒𝑙[𝑖] =
|𝑁𝑎𝑐𝑡𝑢𝑎𝑙[𝑖] −𝑁𝑒𝑠𝑡[𝑖]|
𝑁𝑎𝑐𝑡𝑢𝑎𝑙[𝑖]
× 100%,
(6)
where: 𝑁𝑒𝑠𝑡is the cumulative number of tracked fruit, determined
as the number of trackers up to frame 𝑘; and 𝑁𝑎𝑐𝑡𝑢𝑎𝑙is the actual
cumulative number of fruit up to frame 𝑘, determined by manual
counting of the fruit in the images.
The relative error obtained in each video could be tabulated as the
error obtained in the last frame of the sequence. However, the error
could present peaks or valleys, depending on the frames at which the
video sequence is stopped. As an example for the reader, Fig. 6(a)
shows the evolution of the actual and estimated fruit count with a
tracking algorithm. It can be seen that there is a crossover between
the two curves at specific points. Such points, seen as a relative error
in Fig. 6(b), present errors close to 0%. For this reason, if duration of
500 or 1000 frames is considered, the error is minimum. Due to the
potential bias in the tracker’s assessment, the findings provided in terms
of relative error correspond to the mean of the relative error, as shown
in the equation below:̄
𝜀𝑟𝑒𝑙= 1
𝑁
𝑁
∑
𝑗=1
𝜀𝑟𝑒𝑙[𝑗]
(7)
The possible causes for finding cases like the one presented in Fig. 6
are an underestimation in the count if the detector fails to identify the
fruit, mainly due to the occlusion of the leaves. On the other hand, an
overestimation could be related to cases in which the fruit is visible in
an instant, then occluded, and then becomes visible again so that the
tracker could initialize the count of new fruit.
4. Results
This section starts by showing the sensitivity analysis of the five
tracking algorithms. Next, the performance of the trackers is compared
in a real application case for agriculture.
4.1. Sensitivity analysis
Fig. 7 represents the qualitative results of the trajectory followed
by each of the trackers when the detection rate is varied. In particular,
these results correspond to a random selection of video 4 (database
2021) and the frames between 329 and 400. According to the tracker,
each line in Fig. 7 represents the trajectory followed by each apple. The
trajectory is considered as the displacement of an apple with respect to
the video frame. When the detection rate is 100% (i.e., ground truth),
the trackers have similar behavior. However, there is a slight difference,
in that the KF tends to have longer trajectories than the other trackers.
At an 80% detection rate, it is noticeable that some trajectories begin
to disappear, the effect being more profound in SORT. Once a detection
rate of 60% is reached, the SORT tracker can practically only follow a
couple of apples. Also it is to be noted that in the KCF, the number of
apples tracked decreases dramatically. On the other hand, MHT and
DeepSORT have similar behaviors. When the detection rate is 40%,
SORT and MHT fail to track any apples and KCF has only a small set of
trajectories. KF has the highest most significant number of trajectories,
DeepSORT still retains a considerable number of trajectories. In the
more extreme case of 20% detection rate, SORT and MHT do not track
any boxes and KCF has few small trajectories. The KF tracker has more
trajectories than the rest, but some of them are very small. On the other
hand, DeepSORT has longer trajectories, but fewer than KF.

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 204 (2023) 107513
9
J. Villacrés et al.
Fig. 6. Example of apple counting performance in a generic tracker. (a) ground truth and tracking method estimation and (b) absolute relative error in fruit count estimation.
Fig. 7. Qualitative evaluation of the trajectories followed by the five tracking strategies and variation of detector sensitivity. In particular, the figure represents the trajectory
obtained in video 4 (database 2021) and the duration of 70 frames. The columns represent each of the trackers. The rows indicate the performance of the detector or the probability
of a fruit being detected, 100% represents that the fruit is seen all the time (i.e., ground truth). Then the probability is gradually reduced in steps of 20 until detection of 20% is
reached. The apple shows the final position of each fruit in the trajectories.
A quantitative analysis of the sensitivity of the trackers is presented
in Fig. 8. This figure depicts the average MOTA for the seven videos
discussed in Section 3.1.1. In the case of a perfect detection scenario,
MHT, SORT and DeepSORT had the best performance, 97.0%, 94.6%,
and 93.0%, respectively, while KF and KCF have values below 80%.
When the detection rate was reduced to 80%, MHT maintained the

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 204 (2023) 107513
10
J. Villacrés et al.
Fig. 8. Sensitivity analysis of multiple object trackers given a variation in the detection rate.
best performance (96.4%). The other trackers’ performance worsened
considerably, except KF, whose MOTA dropped by just 0.6%. At the
next lower detection rate step, i.e., 60%, MHT maintained the best
performance, followed by DeepSORT, KF, KCF, and SORT with MOTAs
of 89.8%, 69.3%, 68.9%, 47.5%, and 13.8%, respectively. At the 40%
detection probability, MHT’s performance deteriorated dramatically,
outperforming only SORT while KF, DeepSORT, and KCF had a MOTA
of 55.6%, 40.5%, and 28.6%, respectively. For detection probability
values of 20%, KF exceeds 18% MOTA. A sensitivity analysis extended
to other evaluation metrics is presented in Appendix.
The effect of reducing the video acquisition frame rate is shown in
Table 3. In particular, the trackers were kept under the same parameter
settings in which the MOTA study was developed by having 30 frames
per second. The results indicate that both the Kalman Filter and the
Kernelized correlation Filter have MOTA values close to zero and even
negative the more frames per second the video acquisition is reduced.
On the other hand, SORT is the strategy with the best MOTA when
considering 100% detection in the three downsampling cases. However,
by decreasing the detection probability of the apples between 20% and
80%, MHT and DS are better when downsampling at 15 fps and 10
fps. In general, at 5 fps, all trackers have a performance close to zero
and even negative values for KF and KCF. It is worth noting that when
comparing the results obtained at 30 fps in Fig. 4 and its counterpart
at 15 fps, 10 fps and 5 fps, it is noticeable that the reduction of fps
negatively affects the performance of the tracker. At a probability of
detection of 80% and 30 fps, DS and MHT exceed 80% MOTA, but
both trackers do not exceed 65%, 43%, and 4% when reducing fps to
15, 10, and 5, respectively. Similarly, at a probability of detection of
60%, the MOTA obtained for DS and MHT at 30 fps exceeds the MOTA
obtained by the same trackers in the videos at 15 fps by approximately
15%. The difference is even more prominent at 10 fps, where the MOTA
decreases by almost 40%, and when reduced to 5 fps the difference
reaches practically 70% of MOTA. The probability of detection of 40%
and 20% show low MOTA values using a subsampled version of the
original videos, reaching values very close to zero at 5 fps for MHT,
DS, and SORT.
4.2. Case study
In this case study, the effect produced by two different fruit de-
tectors strategy based on deep learning was added to the evaluation
of the trackers. In order to consider a scenario as realistic as possible,
the test data were not correlated with the training/validation set. The
detectors were trained with public databases; once the models were
trained, detection is performed on the database presented in Table 1.
These detections serve as input for the tracking algorithms. Regarding
the performance of the object detectors in the validation set (second
column of Table 1), the results are AP@.5: 75.13% and AP@.5: 72.67%
for Faster R-CNN and YoloV5, respectively. In contrast, the relative
error in the fruit count obtained using the trackers is presented in Fig. 9
and corresponds to the meta-architectures of the YoloV5 and Faster R-
CNN object detectors. The counting error for the same tracker is lower
when using the Yolo detector. The lowest relative errors were obtained
using the Yolo detector with the DeepSORT and KF trackers, at 20.1%
and 20.5%, respectively. Considering the same trackers and the Faster
R-CNN detector, the relative error for DeepSORT is 31.5%, and KF is
31.9%. The MHT tracker has an error of 32.5% and 37.1% when using
Yolo and Faster R-CNN, respectively. On the other hand, the SORT
tracker exceeds 50% relative counting error. Moreover, KCF exceeds
75% error when using the Yolo detector and over 90% error with Faster
R-CNN.
5. Discussion
The sensitivity analysis of the trackers allows for evaluating the
MOTA evolution when the probability of detection changes. In general,
when considering a very optimistic scenario (i.e., perfect detection), all
tracking algorithms have good MOTA results. It is important to note
from Fig. 8 that the SORT algorithm has a 50.3% decrease in MOTA
when the probability of detection drops by 20%. This problem could be
directly associated with the fact that the SORT algorithm considers the
prediction with the Kalman Filter of only one instant of time. If the fruit
is not tracked after this time, the tracker is removed. The prediction
selection of step one is considered by the original implementation
of Bewley et al. (2016). The authors point out that a constant velocity-
based model is not a good approximation for multi-object tracking. On
the other hand, MHT having a detection probability of 80% practically
maintains its MOTA; and it is slightly decreased when the detection
probability is 60%. This may be because MHT considers the entire
detection sequence for tracking, and if detection fails between frames,
the algorithm is not affected as much, i.e., it seems to be more robust
to sporadic detection failures. However, when the detection probability
drops to 40%, MHT’s MOTA also drops, possibly because it erroneously
consider shorter detection sequences.
Regarding the reduction of frames per second and the sensitivity
analysis, it is evident that KF and KCF are the worst performers in all
cases. This poor performance could be related to the fact that both KF
and KCF depend on a tuning parameter to define the number of frames
the tracker should be maintained if there are no new detections. In both
cases, these parameters were heuristically tuned for the acquisition
frame rate of 30 fps. Therefore, these two strategies must be adjusted
considering the number of frames per second at which the videos are
acquired. On the other hand, having a detection probability of 100%,
the SORT tracker showed the best performance. It is important to note
that SORT assumes a linear constant velocity model and is based only
on the motion of the bounding boxes, so two characteristics could
be considered for this tracker to have a good performance. The first
is that the detector is excellent, which is complicated in applications
in uncontrolled environments such as agriculture. And the second is
that the camera has a relatively constant motion, as shown in Fig. 4.
Moreover, for probabilities of detection of 80% and below, DS and MHT

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 204 (2023) 107513
11
J. Villacrés et al.
Table 3
Comparison of the trackers in terms of MOTA (%) metric when changing the acquisition frame rate. The
original 30 frames per second were subsampled at 1/2, 1/3, and 1/6 of the initial sampling rate, i.e., 15 fps,
10 fps, and 5 fps, respectively. According to the sensitivity analysis, the probability of detection is expressed
as 100%, 80%, 60%, 40% and 20%. The higher the MOTA then the better the tracker.
FPS
Tracker
100 (%)
80 (%)
60 (%)
40 (%)
20 (%)
15
KF
16.9
7.6
−1.9
−9.7
−7.7
KCF
3.7
2.3
2.3
1.6
1.3
MHT
69.5
59.4
45.4
14.3
1.3
SORT
80.5
36.9
11.6
2.5
0.2
DS
77.8
64.5
44.9
20.1
2.8
10
KF
−57.3
−54.9
−45.4
−31.7
−12.6
KCF
−39.6
−28.7
−19.5
−11.4
−4.5
MHT
56.8
42.7
28.3
7.9
0.8
SORT
60.4
26.3
8.3
1.8
0.2
DS
55.4
37.7
21.6
8.1
0.9
5
KF
−119.6
−90.5
−60.3
−33.3
−10.9
KCF
−47.4
−35.3
−24.5
−14.7
−6.5
MHT
6.9
3.8
2.1
0.7
0.1
SORT
14.5
6.0
2.2
0.7
0.2
DS
7.2
3.4
1.6
0.5
0.1
Fig. 9. Comparison of tracking strategies expressed as a relative error when using the 2016 database with YoloV5 and Faster R-CNN object detectors. The bar plot represents the
mean, and the vertical line above the top of the bar is the standard deviation.
showed the best results. These results suggest that tracking based on
motion and in conjunction with features extracted from the bounding
boxes could be a suitable solution for apple tracking.
The Kalman Filter is configured to predict up to 8 frames or time
instants. This parameter was found heuristically for the acquisition
rate of 30 fps. Thus, if the fruit is not detected for a few frames,
the performance should not be affected as much as shown in Fig. 8.
In the KCF case, it requires only one initialization to follow the fruit
through the image sequence. An absence of some bounding boxes
should not significantly affect its performance. However, agricultural
environments are very challenging because of changes in illumination
and occlusions. Such factors can directly affect apple tracking, which is
reflected in the decrease of MOTA with a linear trend. Similar results
presented by Kim et al. (2017) show that KCF is not robust to occlusion
and illumination changes. DeepSORT, like MHT and SORT, handles the
probability of apple detection better. The results suggest that using a
motion- and appearance-based tracker outperforms using motion alone
as a tracking strategy. The trackers’ MOTA ranking maintains without
change in the probability of detection between 80% and 60%. Finally,
when the detection probabilities are less than or equal to 40%, the
MOTA obtained is less than 40%, except for KF, which reaches a
MOTA of 55.6%. This MOTA result for the KF suggests that a constant
velocity model presents a suitable approximation in data acquired in
agricultural environments. In agricultural environments, a constant
velocity could be achieved if the videos are acquired in a vehicle or
with handed cameras with relatively constant motion.
The case study presented in Fig. 9 shows the relative error when
considering two detectors as input data to the five trackers under study.
The tracking errors obtained when using Faster R-CNN as a detector are
higher compared to Yolo as a detector. That situation is consistent with
the results shown by Bullinger et al. (2017), which indicates that the
tracker’s performance depends strongly on the detection stage. Thus,
it is suggestive that Yolo presented better detections for the tracker
application case.
The DeepSORT tracker presents the lowest error with 20.1%, fol-
lowed by KF with 20.5%. This result suggests that the constant velocity
motion model employed by the Kalman filter and DeepSORT is a good
approximation of the camera motion for the objects in the database
obtained for this work. This constant velocity is supported by the
results obtained based on the magnitude of optical flow shown in
Fig. 4. However, it should be noted that in the case of the Kalman
Filter, it is required to define at how many time instants the state of
the enclosing box should be predicted. In particular, the prediction
window was adjusted for the 30 frames per second, while in DeepSORT,
all the parameters proposed by Wojke et al. (2018) were kept. By
keeping the prediction window of the Kalman Filter and the same
parameters in DeepSORT, it is observed that the performance in terms
of MOTA is considerably reduced when reducing the frames per second
of the video, as shown in Table 3. Therefore, the performance of the
Kalman Filter is strongly linked to the size of the prediction window. In
contrast, KCF does not use any motion model and presents the highest
error among the five methods under study.
A noteworthy event in Fig. 9 is that MHT does not have an er-
ror higher than 10% than DeepSORT. Moreover, according to the
sensitivity analysis, MHT is the one that presented the best results
in detection probabilities greater than and equal to 60%. This result
can be justified since the sensitivity analysis does not consider false
positives, which affect the performance of the trackers. Further studies

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 204 (2023) 107513
12
J. Villacrés et al.
Table A.1
Extension of the sensitivity analysis presented in Fig. 8. Where: Rcall, recall; Prcn, precision; GT, number of apples; FP, False
Positive; FN, False Negative; IDs, identity switch.
Sensitivity
Tracker
Rcll
Prcn
GT
FP
FN
IDs
MOTA
100%
KF
93.00%
83.70%
8447
90771
35024
257
74.90%
KCF
86.60%
88.50%
8447
56514
67088
309
75.30%
MHT
97.30%
99.70%
8447
1426
13472
268
97.00%
SORT
94.80%
99.80%
8447
736
26145
46
94.60%
DS
95.50%
97.50%
8447
12453
22451
69
93.00%
80%
KF
93.30%
83.20%
8447
94469
33589
1064
74.30%
KCF
74.70%
89.30%
8447
44939
127094
2258
65.30%
MHT
96.90%
99.60%
8447
1939
15615
554
96.40%
SORT
46.50%
99.90%
8447
278
268417
11006
44.30%
DS
87.80%
98.30%
8447
7699
60998
1989
85.90%
60%
KF
89.20%
81.80%
8447
99326
54255
2338
68.90%
KCF
55.70%
89.90%
8447
31317
222348
9581
47.50%
MHT
90.30%
99.60%
8447
1830
48717
709
89.80%
SORT
17.10%
99.90%
8447
59
416008
16669
13.80%
DS
70.50%
98.80%
8447
4315
147930
1964
69.30%
40%
KF
76.80%
79.10%
8447
101697
116585
4573
55.60%
KCF
35.60%
90.50%
8447
18794
323330
16270
28.60%
MHT
9.20%
98.70%
8447
620
455955
191
9.00%
SORT
3.80%
99.90%
8447
11
482706
5228
2.80%
DS
41.10%
99.10%
8447
1895
295623
1178
40.50%
20%
KF
31.60%
73.10%
8447
58571
343063
6388
18.70%
KCF
17.30%
91.00%
8447
8620
415121
13439
12.90%
MHT
0.70%
95.60%
8447
158
498499
23
0.60%
SORT
0.30%
100.00%
8447
0
500475
88
0.30%
DS
7.60%
99.30%
8447
282
463861
148
7.50%
are needed to select an appropriate strategy for adding false positives
in the sensitivity analysis.
A limitation in applying automated-based systems to fruit load
estimation is the occlusion factor (OF), determined as the ratio between
the total fruit on the tree and the machine vision count. The OF
can vary between trees for various reasons related to canopy foliage
density, including pruning history, irrigation, and nutrition (Koirala
et al., 2021). Comparing the two databases in terms of OF showed
that the 2016 database has an OF of 1.6129 when Yolo is used as a
detector and 1.5152 using Faster R-CNN. The 2021 database has an
OF of 1.2085 using Yolo and 1.1333 using Faster R-CNN. In this case,
the OF was calculated as the average of the ratio of ground truth to
detections at each frame in the video for each video in the database.
Following this approach, the OF is related to the performance of the
detectors. A lower occlusion factor is observed with the Faster R-CNN
for both databases. However, it should also be considered that there is
an occlusion factor during image acquisition and ground truth creation.
A better approach would be considering a set of calibration trees as
recommended in Anderson et al. (2021).
6. Conclusion
A set of multi-object trackers applied in a fruit-tracking agricultural
application were evaluated using MOTA and counting error as perfor-
mance metrics. More specifically, Kalman Filter, Kernelized Correlation
Filter, Multiple Hypothesis Tracking, Simple Online RealTime, and
DeepSORT were compared. For this research, two novel MOT databases
for apple tracking are presented. The MHT algorithm showed the best
performance (MOTA=97.00%) when ideal detection was considered.
Furthermore, MHT exhibited higher robustness based on MOTA when
the detection probability of the detection system was reduced down to
60%. However, in an apple tracking case study, when using MHT with
Faster R-CNN and Yolo detections, the counting error was higher than
KF and DeepSORT. The tracker that showed the most consistent results
with respect to sensitivity and counting error tests was DeepSORT.
In particular, DeepSORT obtained a MOTA of 93.00% in a perfect
detection scenario and 20.10% detection error with YoloV5 as object
detector. The results suggest that a constant velocity model can provide
acceptable results (as is the case with Kalman and DeepSORT). In
addition, the inclusion of an appearance descriptor can reduce the
counting error, as in DeepSORT. Based on the results obtained, motion-
and appearance-based trackers, such as DeepSORT, seem more suitable
for fruit tracking in orchard environments.
7. Supplementary material
The authors of the article acquired all videos presented in this
database. We want to thank the students from Universidad Técnica
Santa Maria and Universidad de los Andes who were involved in
labeling the videos. The data are publicly available in the following
repositories: ‘‘Case Study’’ (Villacres et al., 2022a) and ‘‘Data Sensitiv-
ity’’ (Villacres et al., 2022b). In case of link issues please contact the
corresponding author.
CRediT authorship contribution statement
Juan Villacrés: Software, Validation, Investigation, Data curation,
Writing – original draft, Visualization. Michelle Viscaino: Data cura-
tion, Visualization, Writing – original draft. José Delpiano: Investi-
gation, Data curation, Writing – original draft. Stavros Vougioukas:
Methodology, Formal analysis, Investigation. Fernando Auat Cheein:
Conceptualization, Methodology, Formal analysis, Investigation, Re-
sources, Writing – review & editing, Supervision, Funding acquisition.
Declaration of competing interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing finan-
cial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to
influence the work reported in this paper.
Data availability
Data will be made available on request.

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 204 (2023) 107513
13
J. Villacrés et al.
Acknowledgments
The authors would like to thank to the Advanced Center for Electri-
cal and Electronic Engineering (AC3E), ANID Basal project FB0008 and
FONDECYT grant 1201319. Authors would also like to thank to Uni-
versidad Técnica Federico Santa María, and ANID PFCHA/Doctorado
Nacional/2020-21200684.
Appendix
See Table A.1.
References
Anderson, N.T., Walsh, K.B., Koirala, A., Wang, Z., Amaral, M.H., Dickinson, G.R.,
Sinha, P., Robson, A.J., 2021. Estimation of fruit load in Australian mango
orchards using machine vision. Agronomy 11 (9), 1711. http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/
agronomy11091711.
Bewley, A., Ge, Z., Ott, L., Ramos, F., Upcroft, B., 2016. Simple online and realtime
tracking. In: Proceedings - International Conference on Image Processing, Vol.
2016-August. ICIP, pp. 3464–3468. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ICIP.2016.7533003.
Bhusal, S., Karkee, M., Zhang, Q., 2019. Apple Dataset Benchmark from Orchard
Environment in Modern Fruiting Wall. WSU AgRobotics Laboratory.
Bullinger, S., Bodensteiner, C., Arens, M., 2017. Instance flow based online multiple
object tracking. In: 2017 IEEE International Conference on Image Processing. ICIP,
IEEE, pp. 785–789. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ICIP.2017.8296388.
Chen, I.-T., Lin, H.-Y., 2020. Detection, counting and maturity assessment of cherry
tomatoes using multi-spectral images and machine learning techniques. In: VISI-
GRAPP 2020 - Proceedings of the 15th International Joint Conference on Computer
Vision, Imaging and Computer Graphics Theory and Applications, Vol. 5. pp.
759–766.
Dendorfer, P., Oˆsep, A., Milan, A., Schindler, K., Cremers, D., Reid, I., Roth, S., Leal-
Taixé, L., 2021. MOTChallenge: A benchmark for single-camera multiple target
tracking. Int. J. Comput. Vis. 129 (4), 845–881. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s11263-
020-01393-0.
Gan, H., Lee, W., Alchanatis, V., Abd-Elrahman, A., 2018. An active thermography
method for immature citrus fruit detection. In: 14th International Conference on
Precision Agriculture.
Gao, F., Fang, W., Sun, X., Wu, Z., Zhao, G., Li, G., Li, R., Fu, L., Zhang, Q.,
2022. A novel apple fruit detection and counting methodology based on deep
learning and trunk tracking in modern orchard. Comput. Electron. Agric. 197,
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2022.107000.
Gao, F., Yang, T., Fu, L., 2021. Apple fruit detection and counting based on deep
learning and trunk tracking. In: American Society of Agricultural and Biological
Engineers Annual International Meeting, Vol. 1. ASABE 2021, pp. 611–624. http:
//dx.doi.org/10.13031/aim.202100193.
Gené-Mola, J., Sanz-Cortiella, R., Rosell-Polo, J.R., Morros, J.-R., Ruiz-Hidalgo, J.,
Vilaplana, V., Gregorio, E., 2020. Fuji-SfM dataset: A collection of annotated
images and point clouds for fuji apple detection and location using structure-from-
motion photogrammetry. Data Brief 30, 105591. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.dib.
2020.105591.
Gené-Mola, J., Vilaplana, V., Rosell-Polo, J., Morros, J.-R., Ruiz-Hidalgo, J., Grego-
rio, E., 2019. Multi-modal deep learning for fuji apple detection using RGB-D
cameras and their radiometric capabilities. Comput. Electron. Agric. 162, 689–698.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2019.05.016.
Halstead, M., McCool, C., Denman, S., Perez, T., Fookes, C., 2018. Fruit quantity and
ripeness estimation using a robotic vision system. IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett. 3 (4),
2995–3002. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/LRA.2018.2849514.
Hamuda, E., Mc Ginley, B., Glavin, M., Jones, E., 2018. Improved image processing-
based crop detection using Kalman filtering and the Hungarian algorithm. Comput.
Electron. Agric. 148, 37–44. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2018.02.027.
Häni, N., Roy, P., Isler, V., 2020. A comparative study of fruit detection and counting
methods for yield mapping in apple orchards. J. Field Robotics 37 (2), 263–282.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/rob.21902.
Hani, N., Roy, P., Isler, V., 2020. MinneApple: A benchmark dataset for apple detection
and segmentation. IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett. 5 (2), 852–858. http://dx.doi.org/10.
1109/LRA.2020.2965061.
He, L., Fang, W., Zhao, G., Wu, Z., Fu, L., Li, R., Majeed, Y., Dhupia, J., 2022.
Fruit yield prediction and estimation in orchards: A state-of-the-art comprehensive
review for both direct and indirect methods. Comput. Electron. Agric. 195, http:
//dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2022.106812.
Henriques, J., Caseiro, R., Martins, P., Batista, J., 2015. High-speed tracking with
kernelized correlation filters. IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell. 37 (3),
583–596. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TPAMI.2014.2345390.
Hung, C., Underwood, J., Nieto, J., Sukkarieh, S., 2015. A feature learning based
approach for automated fruit yield estimation. In: Mejias, L., Corke, P., Roberts, J.
(Eds.), Field and Service Robotics: Results of the 9th International Conference.
Springer International Publishing, Cham, pp. 485–498. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-319-07488-7_33.
Jarvinen,
T.D.,
Choi,
D.,
Heinemann,
P.,
Baugher,
T.A.,
2018.
Multiple
object
tracking-by-detection for fruit counting on an apple tree canopy. p. 1.
Kang, H., Chen, C., 2020. Fast implementation of real-time fruit detection in apple
orchards using deep learning. Comput. Electron. Agric. 168, http://dx.doi.org/10.
1016/j.compag.2019.105108.
Kim, K.-Y., Kwon, J.-S., Cho, K.-S., 2017. Multi-object tracker using kemelized corre-
lation filter based on appearance and motion model. In: 2017 19th International
Conference on Advanced Communication Technology. ICACT, IEEE, pp. 761–764.
http://dx.doi.org/10.23919/ICACT.2017.7890195.
Kim, C., Li, F., Ciptadi, A., Rehg, J.M., 2015. Multiple hypothesis tracking revisited.
In: Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision. pp.
4696–4704. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ICCV.2015.533.
Koirala, A., Walsh, K.B., Wang, Z., 2021. Attempting to estimate the unseen—correction
for occluded fruit in tree fruit load estimation by machine vision with deep
learning. Agronomy 11 (2), 347.
Koirala, A., Walsh, K., Wang, Z., McCarthy, C., 2019a. Deep learning – Method overview
and review of use for fruit detection and yield estimation. Comput. Electron. Agric.
162, 219–234. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2019.04.017.
Koirala, A., Walsh, K., Wang, Z., McCarthy, C., 2019b. Deep learning for real-time fruit
detection and orchard fruit load estimation: Benchmarking of ‘MangoYOLO’. Precis.
Agric. 20 (6), 1107–1135. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s11119-019-09642-0.
Liu, X., Chen, S., Aditya, S., Sivakumar, N., Dcunha, S., Qu, C., Taylor, C., Das, J.,
Kumar, V., 2018. Robust fruit counting: Combining deep learning, tracking, and
structure from motion. In: IEEE International Conference on Intelligent Robots and
Systems. pp. 1045–1052. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/IROS.2018.8594239.
Liu, X., Chen, S., Liu, C., Shivakumar, S., Das, J., Taylor, C., Underwood, J., Kumar, V.,
2019. Monocular camera based fruit counting and mapping with semantic data
association. IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett. 4 (3), 2296–2303. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/
LRA.2019.2901987.
Meena, N., Aggarwal, N., Joshi, S., Gupta, S., 2014. Development of detection, counting
and yield estimation algorithm for agricultural products. Int. J. Eng. Res. Technol.
3 (7), 590–595.
Redmon, J., Divvala, S., Girshick, R., Farhadi, A., 2016. You only look once: Unified,
real-time object detection. In: Proceedings of the IEEE Computer Society Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Vol. 2016-December. pp. 779–788.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/CVPR.2016.91.
Redmon, J., Farhadi, A., 2017. YOLO9000: Better, faster, stronger. In: Proceedings
- 30th IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Vol.
2017-January. CVPR 2017, pp. 6517–6525. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/CVPR.2017.
690.
Redmon, J., Farhadi, A., 2018. Yolov3: An incremental improvement. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1804.02767.
Reid, D., 1979. An algorithm for tracking multiple targets. IEEE Trans. Automat. Control
24 (6), 843–854. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TAC.1979.1102177.
Ren, S., He, K., Girshick, R., Sun, J., 2017. Faster R-CNN: Towards real-time object
detection with region proposal networks. IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell.
39 (6), 1137–1149. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TPAMI.2016.2577031.
Roy, A.M., Bhaduri, J., 2022. Real-time growth stage detection model for high degree of
occultation using DenseNet-fused YOLOv4. Comput. Electron. Agric. 193, 106694.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2022.106694, URL https://www.sciencedirect.
com/science/article/pii/S0168169922000114.
Roy, P., Dong, W., Isler, V., 2018. Registering reconstructions of the two sides of fruit
tree rows. In: IEEE International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems. pp.
7697–7702. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/IROS.2018.8594167.
Stein, M., Bargoti, S., Underwood, J., 2016. Image based mango fruit detection, local-
isation and yield estimation using multiple view geometry. Sensors (Switzerland)
16 (11), http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/s16111915.
Tian, Y., Yang, G., Wang, Z., Wang, H., Li, E., Liang, Z., 2019. Apple detection during
different growth stages in orchards using the improved YOLO-V3 model. Comput.
Electron. Agric. 157, 417–426. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2019.01.012.
Vasconez, J., Delpiano, J., Vougioukas, S., Auat Cheein, F., 2020. Comparison of
convolutional neural networks in fruit detection and counting: A comprehensive
evaluation. Comput. Electron. Agric. 173, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.
2020.105348.
Villacrés, J., Cheein, F., 2020. Detection and characterization of cherries: A deep
learning usability case study in Chile. Agronomy 10 (6), http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/
agronomy10060835.
Villacres, J., Viscaino, M., Delpiano, J., Vougioukas, S., Auat Cheein, F., 2022a. Apple
orchard production estimation using deep learning strategies: a comparison of
tracking-by-detection algorithms - CaseStudy [Data set]. Zenodo http://dx.doi.org/
10.5281/zenodo.7384297.
Villacres, J., Viscaino, M., Delpiano, J., Vougioukas, S., Auat Cheein, F., 2022b.
Apple orchard production estimation using deep learning strategies: a comparison
of tracking-by-detection algorithms - SensitivityAnalysis [Data set]. Zenodo http:
//dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.7383338.

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 204 (2023) 107513
14
J. Villacrés et al.
Wan, S., Goudos, S., 2020. Faster R-CNN for multi-class fruit detection using a
robotic vision system. Comput. Netw. 168, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.comnet.
2019.107036.
Wang, C.-Y., Mark Liao, H.-Y., Wu, Y.-H., Chen, P.-Y., Hsieh, J.-W., Yeh, I.-H., 2020.
CSPNet: A new backbone that can enhance learning capability of CNN. In: IEEE
Computer Society Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Work-
shops, Vol. 2020-June. pp. 1571–1580. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/CVPRW50498.
2020.00203.
Wang, Z., Walsh, K., Koirala, A., 2019. Mango fruit load estimation using a video based
MangoYOLO—Kalman filter—Hungarian algorithm method. Sensors (Switzerland)
19 (12), http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/s19122742.
Wojke, N., Bewley, A., Paulus, D., 2018. Simple online and realtime tracking with
a deep association metric. In: Proceedings - International Conference on Image
Processing, Vol. 2017-September. ICIP, pp. 3645–3649. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/
ICIP.2017.8296962.
Xia, X., Chai, X., Zhang, N., Zhang, Z., Sun, Q., Sun, T., 2022. Culling double counting
in sequence images for fruit yield estimation. Agronomy 12 (2), http://dx.doi.org/
10.3390/agronomy12020440.
Zhang, L.-L., He, D.-J., Song, H.-B., 2020. Automatic tracking of multi-fruit targets with
oscillation under natural growth conditions. Inf. Process. Agric. 7 (4), 546–555.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.inpa.2019.11.004.
Zhang, Y., Yu, J., Chen, Y., Yang, W., Zhang, W., He, Y., 2022. Real-time strawberry
detection using deep neural networks on embedded system (rtsd-net): An edge
AI application. Comput. Electron. Agric. 192, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.
2021.106586.
