MOTS: Multi-Object Tracking and Segmentation
Paul Voigtlaender1
Michael Krause1
Aljo˘sa O˘sep1
Jonathon Luiten1
Berin Balachandar Gnana Sekar1
Andreas Geiger2
Bastian Leibe1
1RWTH Aachen University
2MPI for Intelligent Systems and University of T¨ubingen
{voigtlaender,osep,luiten,leibe}@vision.rwth-aachen.de
{michael.krause,berin.gnana}@rwth-aachen.de andreas.geiger@tue.mpg.de
Abstract
This paper extends the popular task of multi-object
tracking to multi-object tracking and segmentation (MOTS).
Towards this goal, we create dense pixel-level annotations
for two existing tracking datasets using a semi-automatic
annotation procedure.
Our new annotations comprise
65,213 pixel masks for 977 distinct objects (cars and pedes-
trians) in 10,870 video frames.
For evaluation, we ex-
tend existing multi-object tracking metrics to this new task.
Moreover, we propose a new baseline method which jointly
addresses detection, tracking, and segmentation with a sin-
gle convolutional network. We demonstrate the value of
our datasets by achieving improvements in performance
when training on MOTS annotations.
We believe that
our datasets, metrics and baseline will become a valu-
able resource towards developing multi-object tracking ap-
proaches that go beyond 2D bounding boxes.
We make
our annotations, code, and models available at https:
//www.vision.rwth-aachen.de/page/mots.
1. Introduction
In recent years, the computer vision community has
made signiﬁcant advances in increasingly difﬁcult tasks.
Deep learning techniques now demonstrate impressive per-
formance in object detection as well as image and instance
segmentation. Tracking, on the other hand, remains chal-
lenging, especially when multiple objects are involved. In
particular, results of recent tracking evaluations [38, 7, 26]
show that bounding box level tracking performance is sat-
urating. Further improvements will only be possible when
moving to the pixel level. We thus propose to think of all
three tasks – detection, segmentation and tracking – as in-
terconnected problems that need to be considered together.
Datasets that can be used to train and evaluate models
for instance segmentation usually do not provide annota-
tions on video data or even information on object identi-
ties across different images. Common datasets for multi-
object tracking, on the other hand, provide only bounding
Figure 1: Segmentations vs. Bounding Boxes. When ob-
jects pass each other, large parts of an object’s bounding box
may belong to another instance, while per-pixel segmenta-
tion masks locate objects precisely. The shown annotations
are crops from our KITTI MOTS dataset.
box annotations of objects. These can be too coarse, e.g.,
when objects are partially occluded such that their bound-
ing box contains more information from other objects than
from themselves, see Fig. 1. In these cases, pixel-wise seg-
mentation of the objects results in a more natural descrip-
tion of the scene and may provide additional information
for subsequent processing steps. For segmentation masks
there is a well-deﬁned ground truth, whereas many differ-
ent (non-tight) boxes might roughly ﬁt an object. Similarly,
tracks with overlapping bounding boxes create ambiguities
when compared to ground truth that usually need to be re-
solved at evaluation time by heuristic matching procedures.
Segmentation based tracking results, on the other hand, are
by deﬁnition non-overlapping and can thus be compared to
ground truth in a straightforward manner.
In this paper, we therefore propose to extend the well-
known multi-object tracking task to instance segmentation
tracking.
We call this new task “Multi-Object Tracking
arXiv:1902.03604v2  [cs.CV]  8 Apr 2019

and Segmentation (MOTS)”. To the best of our knowledge,
there exist no datasets for this task to date. While there
are many methods for bounding box tracking in the liter-
ature, MOTS requires combining temporal and mask cues
for success.
We thus propose TrackR-CNN as a base-
line method which addresses all aspects of the MOTS task.
TrackR-CNN extends Mask R-CNN [15] with 3D convolu-
tions to incorporate temporal information and by an associ-
ation head which is used to link object identities over time.
In summary, this paper makes the following contribu-
tions: (1) We provide two new datasets with temporally
consistent object instance segmentations based on the pop-
ular KITTI [13] and MOTChallenge [38] datasets for train-
ing and evaluating methods that tackle the MOTS task. (2)
We propose the new soft Multi-Object Tracking and Seg-
mentation Accuracy (sMOTSA) measure that can be used
to simultaneously evaluate all aspects of the new task. (3)
We present TrackR-CNN as a baseline method which ad-
dresses detection, tracking, and segmentation jointly and
we compare it to existing work. (4) We demonstrate the
usefulness of the new datasets for end-to-end training of
pixel-level multi-object trackers. In particular, we show that
with our datasets, joint training of segmentation and track-
ing procedures becomes possible and yields improvements
over training only for instance segmentation or bounding
box tracking, which was possible previously.
2. Related Work
Multi-Object Tracking Datasets.
In the multi-object
tracking (MOT) task, an initially unknown number of tar-
gets from a known set of classes must be tracked as bound-
ing boxes in a video. In particular, targets may enter and
leave the scene at any time and must be recovered after
long-time occlusion and under appearance changes. Many
MOT datasets focus on street scenarios, for example the
KITTI tracking dataset [13], which features video from a
vehicle-mounted camera; or the MOTChallenge datasets
[27, 38] that show pedestrians from a variety of differ-
ent viewpoints. UA-DETRAC [58, 36] also features street
scenes but contains annotations for vehicles only. Another
MOT dataset is PathTrack [37], which provides annotations
of human trajectories in diverse scenes. PoseTrack [2] con-
tains annotations of joint positions for multiple persons in
videos. None of these datasets provide segmentation masks
for the annotated objects and thus do not describe complex
interactions like in Fig. 1 in sufﬁcient detail.
Video Object Segmentation Datasets. In the video object
segmentation (VOS) task, instance segmentations for one or
multiple generic objects are provided in the ﬁrst frame of a
video and must be segmented with pixel accuracy in all sub-
sequent frames. Existing VOS datasets contain only few ob-
jects which are also present in most frames. In addition, the
common evaluation metrics for this task (region Jaccard in-
dex and boundary F-measure) do not take error cases like id
switches into account that can occur when tracking multiple
objects. In contrast, MOTS focuses on a set of pre-deﬁned
classes and considers crowded scenes with many interacting
objects. MOTS also adds the difﬁculty of discovering and
tracking a varying number of new objects as they appear
and disappear in a scene.
Datasets for the VOS task include the DAVIS 2016
dataset [44], which focuses on single-object VOS, and the
DAVIS 2017 [46] dataset, which extends the task for multi-
object VOS. Furthermore, the YouTube-VOS dataset [60]
is available and orders of magnitude larger than DAVIS. In
addition, the Segtrackv2 [29] dataset, FBMS [41] and an
annotated subset of the YouTube-Objects dataset [47, 20]
can be used to evaluate this task.
Video Instance Segmentation Datasets. Cityscapes [12],
BDD [62], and ApolloScape [19] provide video data for
an automotive scenario. Instance annotations, however, are
only provided for a small subset of non-adjacent frames or,
in the case of ApolloScape, for each frame but without ob-
ject identities over time. Thus, they cannot be used for end-
to-end training of pixel-level tracking approaches.
Methods. While a comprehensive review of methods pro-
posed for the MOT or VOS tasks is outside the scope of this
paper (for the former, see e.g. [28]), we will review some
works that have tackled (subsets of) the MOTS task or are
in other ways related to TrackR-CNN.
Seguin et al. [52] derive instance segmentations from
given bounding box tracks using clustering on a super-
pixel level, but they do not address the detection or track-
ing problem. Milan et al. [39] consider tracking and seg-
mentation jointly in a CRF utilizing superpixel informa-
tion and given object detections. In contrast to both meth-
ods, our proposed baseline operates on pixel rather than su-
perpixel level. CAMOT [43] performs mask-based track-
ing of generic objects on the KITTI dataset using stereo
information, which limits its accuracy for distant objects.
CDTS [25] performs unsupervised VOS, i.e., without us-
ing ﬁrst-frame information. It considers only short video
clips with few object appearances and disappearances. In
MOTS, however, many objects frequently enter or leave a
crowded scene. While the above mentioned methods are
able to produce tracking outputs with segmentation masks,
their performance could not be evaluated comprehensively,
since no dataset with MOTS annotations existed.
Lu et al. [34] tackle tracking by aggregating location and
appearance features per frame and combining these across
time using LSTMs. Sadeghian et al. [51] also combine ap-
pearance features obtained by cropped detections with ve-
locity and interaction information using a combination of
LSTMs. In both cases, the combined features are input into
a traditional Hungarian matching procedure. For our base-
line model, we directly enrich detections using temporal in-

formation and learn association features jointly with the de-
tector rather than only “post-processing” given detections.
Semi-Automatic Annotation.
There are many methods
for semi-automatic instance segmentation, e.g. generating
segmentation masks from scribbles [50], or clicks [59].
These methods require user input for every object to be seg-
mented, while our annotation procedure can segment many
objects fully-automatically, letting annotators focus on im-
proving results for difﬁcult cases. While this is somewhat
similar to an active learning setting [11, 57], we leave the
decision which objects to annotate with our human annota-
tors to guarantee that all annotations reach the quality nec-
essary for a long-term benchmark dataset (c.f. [33]).
Other semi-automatic annotation techniques include
Polygon-RNN [9, 1], which automatically predicts a seg-
mentation in form of a polygon from which vertices can
be corrected by the annotator. Fluid Annotation [3] allows
the annotator to manipulate segments predicted by Mask R-
CNN [15] in order to annotate full images. While speeding
up the creation of segmentation masks of objects in isolated
frames, these methods do not operate on a track level, do
not make use of existing bounding box annotations, and do
not exploit segmentation masks which have been annotated
for the same object in other video frames.
3. Datasets
Annotating pixel masks for every frame of every object
in a video is an extremely time-consuming task. Hence, the
availability of such data is very limited. We are not aware
of any existing datasets for the MOTS task. However, there
are some datasets with MOT annotations, i.e., tracks anno-
tated at the bounding box level. For the MOTS task, these
datasets lack segmentation masks. Our annotation proce-
dure therefore adds segmentation masks for the bounding
boxes in two MOT datasets. In total, we annotated 65,213
segmentation masks. This size makes our datasets viable for
training and evaluating modern learning-based techniques.
Semi-automatic Annotation Procedure.
In order to
keep the annotation effort manageable, we propose a semi-
automatic method to extend bounding box level annotations
by segmentation masks. We use a convolutional network to
automatically produce segmentation masks from bounding
boxes, followed by a correction step using manual polygon
annotations. Per track, we ﬁne-tune the initial network us-
ing the manual annotations as additional training data, sim-
ilarly to [6]. We iterate the process of generating and cor-
recting masks until pixel-level accuracy for all annotation
masks has been reached.
For converting bounding boxes into segmentation masks,
we use a fully-convolutional reﬁnement network [35] based
on DeepLabv3+ [10] which takes as input a crop of the in-
put image speciﬁed by the bounding box with a small con-
text region added, together with an additional input channel
Figure 2:
Sample Images of our Annotations. KITTI
MOTS (top) and MOTSChallenge (bottom).
that encodes the bounding box as a mask. Based on these
cues, the reﬁnement network predicts a segmentation mask
for the given box. The reﬁnement network is pre-trained on
COCO [30] and Mapillary [40], and then trained on manu-
ally created segmentation masks for the target dataset.
In the beginning, we annotate (as polygons) two seg-
mentation masks per object in the considered dataset.1 The
reﬁnement network is ﬁrst trained on all manually created
masks and afterwards ﬁne-tuned individually for each ob-
ject. These ﬁne-tuned variants of the network are then used
to generate segmentation masks for all bounding boxes of
the respective object in the dataset. This way the network
adapts to the appearance and context of each individual ob-
ject. Using two manually annotated segmentation masks per
object for ﬁne-tuning the reﬁnement network already pro-
duces relatively good masks for the object’s appearances in
the other frames, but often small errors remain. Hence, we
manually correct some of the ﬂawed generated masks and
re-run the training procedure in an iterative process. Our
annotators also corrected imprecise or wrong bounding box
annotations in the original MOT datasets.
KITTI MOTS. We performed the aforementioned annota-
tion procedure on the bounding box level annotations from
the KITTI tracking dataset [13]. A sample of the annota-
tions is shown in Fig. 2. To facilitate training and evalu-
ation, we divided the 21 training sequences of the KITTI
tracking dataset2 into a training and validation set, respec-
tively3. Our split balances the number of occurrences of
each class – cars and pedestrians – roughly equally across
training and validation set. Statistics are given in Table 1.
1The two frames annotated per object are chosen by the annotator based
on diversity.
2We are currently applying our annotation procedure to the KITTI test
set with the goal of creating a publicly accessible MOTS benchmark.
3Sequences 2, 6, 7, 8, 10, 13, 14, 16 and 18 were chosen for the valida-
tion set, the remaining sequences for the training set.

KITTI MOTS
MOTSChallenge
train
val
# Sequences
12
9
4
# Frames
5,027
2,981
2,862
# Tracks Pedestrian
99
68
228
# Masks Pedestrian
Total
8,073
3,347
26,894
Manually annotated
1,312
647
3,930
# Tracks Car
431
151
-
# Masks Car
Total
18,831
8,068
-
Manually annotated
1,509
593
-
Table 1: Statistics of the Introduced KITTI MOTS and
MOTSChallenge Datasets. We consider pedestrians for
both datasets and also cars for KITTI MOTS.
The relatively high number of manual annotations required
demonstrates that existing single-image instance segmenta-
tion techniques still perform poorly on this task. This is
a major motivation for our proposed MOTS dataset which
allows for incorporating temporal reasoning into instance
segmentation models.
MOTSChallenge. We further annotated 4 of 7 sequences
of the MOTChallenge 2017 [38] training dataset4 and ob-
tained the MOTSChallenge dataset. MOTSChallenge fo-
cuses on pedestrians in crowded scenes and is very chal-
lenging due to many occlusion cases, for which a pixel-wise
description is especially beneﬁcial. A sample of the anno-
tations is shown in Fig. 2, statistics are given in Table 1.
4. Evaluation Measures
As evaluation measures we adapt the well-established
CLEAR MOT metrics for multi-object tracking [4] to our
task. For the MOTS task, the segmentation masks per object
need to be accommodated in the evaluation metric. Inspired
by the Panoptic Segmentation task [24], we require that
both the ground truth masks of objects and the masks pro-
duced by a MOTS method are non-overlapping, i.e., each
pixel can be assigned to at most one object. We now intro-
duce our evaluation measures for MOTS.
Formally, the ground truth of a video with T time frames,
height h, and width w consists of a set of N non-empty
ground truth pixel masks M = {m1, . . . , mN} with mi ∈
{0, 1}h×w, each of which belongs to a corresponding time
frame tm ∈{1, . . . , T} and is assigned a ground truth track
id idm ∈N. The output of a MOTS method is a set of
K non-empty hypothesis masks H = {h1, . . . , hK} with
hi ∈{0, 1}h×w, each of which is assigned a hypothesized
track id idh ∈N and a time frame th ∈{1, . . . , T}.
Establishing Correspondences.
An important step for
4Sequences 2, 5, 9 and 11 were annotated.
the CLEAR MOT metrics [4] is to establish correspon-
dences between ground truth objects and tracker hypothe-
ses. In the bounding box-based setup, establishing corre-
spondences is non-trivial and performed by bipartite match-
ing, since ground truth boxes may overlap and multiple hy-
pothesized boxes can ﬁt well to a given ground truth box. In
the case of MOTS, establishing correspondences is greatly
simpliﬁed since we require that each pixel is uniquely as-
signed to at most one object in the ground truth and the
hypotheses respectively. Thus, at most one predicted mask
can have an Intersection-over-Union (IoU) of more than 0.5
with a given ground truth mask [24]. Hence, the mapping
c : H →M ∪{∅} from hypothesis masks to ground truth
masks can simply be deﬁned using mask-based IoU as
c(h) =
(
arg max
m∈M
IoU(h, m),
if max
m∈M IoU(h, m) > 0.5
∅,
otherwise.
(1)
The set of true positives TP = {h ∈H | c(h)̸ = ∅}
is comprised of hypothesized masks which are mapped to
a ground truth mask.
Similarly, false positives are hy-
pothesized masks that are not mapped to any ground truth
mask, i.e. FP = {h ∈H | c(h) = ∅}. Finally, the set
FN = {m ∈M | c−1(m) = ∅} of false negatives con-
tains the ground truth masks which are not covered by any
hypothesized mask.
In the following, let pred : M →M ∪{∅} denote the
latest tracked predecessor of a ground truth mask, or ∅if
no tracked predecessor exists. So q = pred(p) is the mask
q with the same id (idq = idp) and the largest tq < tp
such that c−1(q)̸ = ∅5. The set IDS of id switches is then
deﬁned as the set of ground truth masks whose predecessor
was tracked with a different id. Formally,
IDS = {m ∈M | c−1(m)̸ = ∅∧pred(m)̸ = ∅∧
idc−1(m)̸ = idc−1(pred(m))}.
(2)
Mask-based Evaluation Measures. Additionally, we de-
ﬁne a soft version f
TP of the number of true positives by
f
TP =
X
h∈T P
IoU(h, c(h)).
(3)
Given the previous deﬁnitions, we deﬁne mask-based vari-
ants of the original CLEAR MOT metrics [4].
We pro-
pose the multi-object tracking and segmentation accuracy
(MOTSA) as a mask IoU based version of the box-based
MOTA metric, i.e.
MOTSA = 1 −|F N| + |F P | + |IDS|
|M|
= |T P | −|F P | −|IDS|
|M|
,
(4)
and the mask-based multi-object tracking and segmentation
precision (MOTSP) as
5This deﬁnition corresponds to the one used by MOTChallenge. Note
that the original KITTI tracking benchmark does not count id switches if
the target was lost by the tracker.

 
 
CAR: 0.99
CAR: 0.99
CAR: 0.99
CAR: 0.99
Feature 
Extraction
Feature 
Extraction
Feature 
Extraction
...
...
Image
Features
Temporally
Enhanced
Image
Features
t-1
t
t+1
Region 
Proposal 
Network
Bounding Box 
Regression
Classification
+ Scoring
CAR: 0.99
Mask 
Generation
128-D Association
Vectors
Image Instance
Segmentation
Ground Truth
Video Tracking
Ground Truth
 Online Track
Association
During
Training
During
Evaluation
Shared 
weights
Shared 
weights
...
Association 
Embedding
...
 Previously
Tracked
Objects
Loss
Loss
2x
3D Conv
Figure 3: TrackR-CNN Overview. We extend Mask R-CNN by 3D convolutions to incorporate temporal context and by an
association head that produces association vectors for each detection. The Euclidean distances between association vectors
are used to associate detections over time into tracks. Differences to Mask R-CNN are highlighted in yellow.
MOTSP =
g
TP
|TP|.
(5)
Finally, we introduce the soft multi-object tracking and seg-
mentation accuracy (sMOTSA)
sMOTSA =
g
TP −|FP| −|IDS|
|M|
,
(6)
which accumulates the soft number f
TP of true positives in-
stead of counting how many masks reach an IoU of more
than 0.5. sMOTSA therefore measures segmentation as well
as detection and tracking quality.
5. Method
In order to tackle detection, tracking, and segmentation,
i.e. the MOTS task, jointly with a neural network, we build
upon the popular Mask R-CNN [15] architecture, which ex-
tends the Faster R-CNN [49] detector with a mask head. We
propose TrackR-CNN (see Fig. 3) which in turn extends
Mask R-CNN by an association head and two 3D convo-
lutional layers to be able to associate detections over time
and deal with temporal dynamics. TrackR-CNN provides
mask-based detections together with association features.
Both are input to a tracking algorithm that decides which
detections to select and how to link them over time.
Integrating temporal context. In order to exploit the tem-
poral context of the input video [8], we integrate 3D convo-
lutions (where the additional third dimension is time) into
Mask R-CNN on top of a ResNet-101 [16] backbone. The
3D convolutions are applied to the backbone features in or-
der to augment them with temporal context. These aug-
mented features are then used by the region proposal net-
work (RPN). As an alternative we also consider convolu-
tional LSTM [54, 31] layers. Convolutional LSTM retains
the spatial structure of the input by calculating its activa-
tions using convolutions instead of matrix products.
Association Head.
In order to be able to associate de-
tections over time, we extend Mask R-CNN by an asso-
ciation head which is a fully connected layer that gets re-
gion proposals as inputs and predicts an association vec-
tor for each proposal.
The association head is inspired
by the embedding vectors used in person re-identiﬁcation
[18, 5, 32, 56, 63]. Each association vector represents the
identity of a car or a person. They are trained in a way that
vectors belonging to the same instance are close to each
other and vectors belonging to different instances are far
away from each other. We deﬁne the distance d(v, w) be-
tween two association vectors v and w as their Euclidean
distance, i.e.
d(v, w) := ∥v −w∥.
(7)
We train the association head using the batch hard triplet
loss proposed by Hermans et al. [18] adapted for video se-
quences. This loss samples hard positives and hard nega-
tives for each detection. Formally, let D denote the set of
detections for a video. Each detection d ∈D consists of
a mask maskd and an association vector ad, which come
from time frame td, and is assigned a ground truth track id
idd determined by its overlap with the ground truth objects.
For a video sequence of T time steps, the association loss in
the batch-hard formulation with margin α is then given by
1
|D|
X
d∈D
max
 max
e∈D:
ide=idd
∥ae−ad∥−min
e∈D:
ide̸=idd
∥ae−ad∥+α, 0

.
(8)
Mask Propagation.
Mask-based IoU together with opti-
cal ﬂow warping is a strong cue for associating pixel masks
over time [43, 35]. Hence, we also experiment with mask
warping as an alternative cue to association vector similari-
ties. For a detection d ∈D at time t −1 with mask maskd
and a detection e ∈D with mask maske at time t, we deﬁne

the mask propagation score [35, 43] as
maskprop(maskd, maske) = IoU(W(maskd), maske),
(9)
where W(m) denotes warping mask m forward by the op-
tical ﬂow between frames t −1 and t.
Tracking. In order to produce the ﬁnal result, we still need
to decide which detections to report and how to link them
into tracks over time. For this, we extend existing tracks
with new detections based on their association vector simi-
larity to the most recent detection in that track.
More precisely, for each class and each frame t, we link
together detections at the current frame that have detector
conﬁdence larger than a threshold γ with detections selected
in the previous frames using the association vector distances
from Eq. 7. We only choose the most recent detection for
tracks from up to a threshold of β frames in the past. Match-
ing is done with the Hungarian algorithm, while only allow-
ing pairs of detections with a distance smaller than a thresh-
old δ. Finally, all unassigned high conﬁdence detections
start new tracks.
The resulting tracks can contain overlapping masks
which we do not allow for the MOTS task (c.f. Section 4).
In such a case, pixels belonging to detections with a higher
conﬁdence (given by the classiﬁcation head of our network)
take precedence over detections with lower conﬁdence.
6. Experiments
Experimental Setup. For Mask R-CNN we use a ResNet-
101 backbone [16] and pre-train it on COCO [30] and
Mapillary [40]. Afterwards, we construct TrackR-CNN by
adding the association head and integrating two depthwise
separable 3D convolution layers with 3×3×3 ﬁlter kernels
each (two dimensions are spatial and the third is over time),
ReLU activation, and 1024 feature maps between the back-
bone and the region proposal network. The 3D convolutions
are initialized to an identity function after which the ReLU
is applied. When using convolutional LSTM, weights are
initialized randomly and a skip connection is added to pre-
serve activations for the pretrained weights of subsequent
layers during the initial steps of training.
TrackR-CNN
is then trained on the target dataset, i.e. KITTI MOTS or
MOTSChallenge, for 40 epochs with a learning rate of
5 · 10−7 using the Adam [23] optimizer. During training,
mini-batches which consist of 8 adjacent frames of a single
video are used, where 8 was the maximum possible number
of frames to ﬁt into memory with a Titan X (Pascal) graph-
ics card. At batch boundaries, the input to the 3D convolu-
tion layer is zero padded in time. When using convolutional
LSTM, gradients are backpropagated through all 8 frames
during training and at test time the recurrent state is prop-
agated over the whole sequence. The vectors produced by
the association head have 128 dimensions and the associa-
tion loss deﬁned in Eq. 8 is computed over the detections
sMOTSA
MOTSA
MOTSP
Car
Ped
Car
Ped
Car
Ped
TrackR-CNN (ours)
76.2
46.8
87.8
65.1
87.2
75.7
Mask R-CNN + maskprop
75.1
45.0
86.6
63.5
87.1
75.6
TrackR-CNN (box orig) + MG
75.0
41.2
87.0
57.9
86.8
76.3
TrackR-CNN (ours) + MG
76.2
47.1
87.8
65.5
87.2
75.7
CAMOT [43] (our det)
67.4
39.5
78.6
57.6
86.5
73.1
CIWT [42] (our det) + MG
68.1
42.9
79.4
61.0
86.7
75.7
BeyondPixels [53] + MG
76.9
-
89.7
-
86.5
-
GT Boxes (orig) + MG
77.3
36.5
90.4
55.7
86.3
75.3
GT Boxes (tight) + MG
82.5
50.0
95.3
71.1
86.9
75.4
Table 2: Results on KITTI MOTS. +MG denotes mask
generation with a KITTI MOTS ﬁne-tuned Mask R-CNN.
BeyondPixels is a state-of-the-art MOT method for cars and
uses a different detector than the other methods.
obtained in one batch. We choose a margin of α = 0.2,
which proved useful in [18]. For the mask propagation ex-
periments, we compute optical ﬂow between all pairs of
adjacent frames using PWC-Net [55]. Our whole tracker
achieves a speed of around 2 frames per second at test time.
When using convolutional LSTM, it runs online and when
using 3D convolutions in near-online fashion due to the two
frames look-ahead of the 3D convolutions.
We tune the thresholds for our tracking system (δ, β, γ)
for each class separately on the target training set with ran-
dom search using 1000 iterations per experiment.
Main Results.
Table 2 shows our results on the KITTI
MOTS validation set. We achieve competitive results, beat-
ing several baselines. Mask R-CNN + maskprop denotes
a simple baseline for which we ﬁne-tuned the COCO and
Mapillary pre-trained Mask R-CNN on the frames of the
KITTI MOTS training set. We then evaluated it on the val-
idation set and linked the mask-based detections over time
using mask propagation scores (c.f. Section 5). Compared
to this baseline, TrackR-CNN achieves higher sMOTSA
and MOTSA scores, implying that the 3D convolution lay-
ers and the association head help with identifying objects in
video. MOTSP scores remain similar.
TrackR-CNN (box orig) denotes a version of our model
trained without mask head on the original bounding box an-
notations of KITTI. We then tuned for MOTA scores ac-
cording to the original KITTI tracking annotations on our
training split. We evaluate this baseline in our MOTS set-
ting by adding segmentation masks as a post-processing
step (denoted by +MG) with the mask head of the KITTI
ﬁne-tuned Mask R-CNN. sMOTSA and MOTSA scores for
this setup are worse than for our method and the previous
baseline, especially when considering pedestrians, adding
to our observation that non-tight bounding boxes are not

(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
Figure 4: Qualitative Results on KITTI MOTS. (a)+(c)
Our TrackR-CNN model evaluated on validation sequences
of KITTI MOTS. (b)+(d) TrackR-CNN (box orig) + MG
evaluated on the same sequences. Training with masks on
our data avoids confusion between similar near-by objects.
an ideal cue for tracking and that simply using an instance
segmentation method on top of bounding box predictions
is not sufﬁcient to solve the MOTS task. We show quali-
tative results for this baseline in Figure 4. The box-based
model often confuses similar occluding objects for one an-
other, leading to missed masks and id switches. In contrast,
our model hypothesizes consistent masks.
To show that adding segmentation masks as done above
does not give an unfair (dis)advantage, we also use the
Mask R-CNN mask head to replace the masks generated by
our method (TrackR-CNN (ours) + MG). The results stay
roughly similar, so no major (dis)advantage incurs.
In combination, our baseline experiments show that
training on temporally consistent instance segmentation
data for video gives advantages both over training on in-
stance segmentation data without temporal information and
over training just on bounding box tracking data. Joint train-
ing on both was not possible before, which underlines the
usefulness of our proposed MOTS datasets.
CAMOT [43] is a mask-based tracker which can track
both objects from pre-deﬁned classes and generic objects
using 3D information from the stereo setup in KITTI. In
the original version, CAMOT takes as input generic object
proposals from SharpMask [45]. For better comparability,
we used the detections from our TrackR-CNN (obtained by
running it as a normal detector without association) as in-
puts instead. Note that CAMOT can only track regions for
Temporal component
sMOTSA
MOTSA
MOTSP
Car
Ped
Car
Ped
Car
Ped
1xConv3D
76.1
46.3
87.8
64.5
87.1
75.7
2xConv3D
76.2
46.8
87.8
65.1
87.2
75.7
1xConvLSTM
75.7
45.0
87.3
63.4
87.2
75.6
2xConvLSTM
76.1
44.8
87.9
63.3
87.0
75.2
None
76.4
44.8
87.9
63.2
87.3
75.5
Table 3: Different Temporal Components for TrackR-
CNN. Comparison of results on KITTI MOTS.
which depth from stereo is available which limits its re-
call. The results show that our proposed tracking method
performs signiﬁcantly better than CAMOT when using the
same set of input detections.
Since there are not many mask-based trackers with
source code available, we also considered the bounding
box-based tracking methods CIWT [42] and BeyondPix-
els [53] and again converted their results to segmentation
masks using the KITTI ﬁne-tuned Mask R-CNN mask head.
Note that these methods were tuned to perform well on the
original bounding box based task.
CIWT [42] combines image-based information with 3D
information from stereo for tracking jointly in image and
world space. Once more, detections from our TrackR-CNN
were used for comparability. Our proposed tracking sys-
tem which tackles tracking and mask generation jointly per-
forms better than CIWT when generating masks post-hoc.
BeyondPixels [53] is one of the strongest tracking meth-
ods for cars on the original KITTI tracking dataset. It com-
bines appearance information with 3D cues. We were not
able to run their method with our detections since their code
for extracting appearance features is not available. Instead
we used their original detections which are obtained from
RRC [48], a very strong detector. RRC achieves precise
localization on KITTI in particular, while the more conven-
tional Mask R-CNN detector was designed for general ob-
ject detection. The resulting sMOTSA and MOTSA scores
are higher than for our method, but still show that there are
limits to state-of-the-art bounding box tracking methods on
MOTS when simply segmenting boxes using Mask R-CNN.
MOTS Using Ground Truth Boxes. For comparison, we
derived segmentation results based on bounding box ground
truth and evaluated it on our new annotations. Here, we con-
sider two variants of the ground truth: the original bound-
ing boxes from KITTI (orig), which are amodal, i.e. if only
the upper body of a person is visible, the box will still ex-
tend to the ground, and tight bounding boxes (tight) derived
from our segmentation masks. Again, we generated masks
using the KITTI MOTS ﬁne-tuned Mask R-CNN. Our re-
sults show that even with perfect track hypotheses gener-
ating accurate masks remains challenging, especially for
pedestrians. This is even more the case when using amodal

Association Mechanism
sMOTSA
MOTSA
MOTSP
Car
Ped
Car
Ped
Car
Ped
Association head
76.2
46.8
87.8
65.1
87.2
75.7
Mask IoU
75.5
46.1
87.1
64.4
87.2
75.7
Mask IoU (train w/o assoc.)
74.9
44.9
86.5
63.3
87.1
75.6
Bbox IoU
75.4
45.9
87.0
64.3
87.2
75.7
Bbox Center
74.3
43.3
86.0
61.7
87.2
75.7
Table 4: Different Association Mechanisms for TrackR-
CNN. Comparison of results on KITTI MOTS.
boxes, which often contain large regions that do not show
the object. This further validates our claim that MOT tasks
can beneﬁt from pixel-wise evaluation. Further baselines,
where we ﬁll the ground truth boxes with rectangles or el-
lipses can be found in the supplemental material.
Temporal Component.
In Table 3, we compare dif-
ferent variants of temporal components for TrackR-CNN.
1xConv3D and 2xConv3D means using either one or stack-
ing two depthwise separable 3D convolutional layers be-
tween backbone and region proposal network, each with
1024 dimensions. Similarly, 1xConvLSTM and 2xConvL-
STM denotes one or two stacked convolutional LSTM lay-
ers at the same stage with 128 feature channels each. The
number of parameters per feature channel in a convolutional
LSTM is higher due to gating. Using more feature channels
did not seem to be helpful during initial experiments. Fi-
nally, None denotes adding no additional layers as temporal
component. Compared to the None baseline, adding two 3D
convolutions signiﬁcantly improves sMOTSA and MOTSA
scores for pedestrians, while performance for cars remains
comparable. Surprisingly, using convolutional LSTM does
not yield any signiﬁcant gains over the baseline.
Association Mechanism.
In Table 4, we compare dif-
ferent mechanism used for association between detections.
Each line follows the proposed tracking system explained
in Section 5, but different scores are used for the Hungarian
matching step. When using the association head, associa-
tion vectors may match with detections up to β frames in
the past. For the remaining association mechanisms, only
matching between adjacent frames is sensible.
For Mask IoU we only use mask propagation scores from
Eq. 9, which degrades sMOTSA and MOTSA scores. This
underlines the usefulness of our association head which can
outperform an optical ﬂow based cue using embeddings
provided by a single neural network.
Here, we also try
training without the association loss (Mask IoU (train w/o
assoc.)), which degrades MOTSA scores even more. There-
fore, the association loss also has a positive effect on the de-
tector itself. Surprisingly, using bounding box IoU (where
the boxes were warped with the median of the optical ﬂow
values inside the box, Bbox IoU) performs almost the same
as mask IoU. Finally, using only distances of bounding box
sMOTSA
MOTSA
MOTSP
TrackR-CNN (ours)
52.7
66.9
80.2
MHT-DAM [22] + MG
48.0
62.7
79.8
FWT [17] + MG
49.3
64.0
79.7
MOTDT [32] + MG
47.8
61.1
80.0
jCC [21] + MG
48.3
63.0
79.9
GT Boxes (tight) + MG
55.8
74.5
78.6
Table 5: Results on MOTSChallenge. +MG denotes mask
generation with a domain ﬁne-tuned Mask R-CNN.
centers (Bbox Center) for association, i.e. doing a nearest
neighbor search, signiﬁcantly degrades performance.
MOTSChallenge.
Table 5 shows our results on the
MOTSChallenge dataset. Since MOTSChallenge only has
four video sequences, we trained our method (TrackR-CNN
(ours)) in a leaving-one-out fashion (evaluating each se-
quence with a model trained and tuned on the three others).
For comparison, we took pre-computed results of four
methods that perform well on the MOT17 benchmark
and generated masks using a Mask R-CNN ﬁne-tuned on
MOTSChallenge (in a leaving-one-out fashion) to evalu-
ate them on our data.
We note that all four sets of re-
sults use the strongest set of public detections generated
with SDP [61], while TrackR-CNN generates its own de-
tections. It is also unclear how much these methods were
trained to perform well on the MOTChallenge training set,
on which MOTSChallenge is based. Despite these odds,
TrackR-CNN outperforms all other methods. The last line
demonstrates that even with the tight ground truth bounding
boxes including track information over time, segmenting all
pedestrians accurately remains difﬁcult.
7. Conclusion
Until now there has been no benchmark or dataset to
evaluate the task of multi-object tracking and segmentation
and to directly train methods using such temporally con-
sistent mask-based tracking information. To alleviate this
problem, we introduce two new datasets based on existing
MOT datasets which we annotate using a semi-automatic
annotation procedure. We further introduce the MOTSA
and sMOTSA metrics, based on the commonly used MOTA
metric, but adapted to evaluate all aspects of mask-based
tracking. We ﬁnally develop a baseline model that was de-
signed to take advantage of this data. We show that through
training on our data, the method is able to outperform com-
parable methods which are only trained with bounding box
tracks and single image instance segmentation masks. Our
new datasets now make such joint training possible, which
opens up many opportunities for future research.
Acknowledgements:
This project has been funded, in parts, by ERC
Consolidator Grant DeeViSe (ERC-2017-COG-773161). The experiments
were performed with computing resources granted by RWTH Aachen Uni-
versity under project rwth0373. We would like to thank our annotators.

References
[1] D. Acuna, H. Ling, A. Kar, and S. Fidler. Efﬁcient interactive
annotation of segmentation datasets with polygon-rnn++. In
CVPR, 2018. 3
[2] M. Andriluka, U. Iqbal, E. Ensafutdinov, L. Pishchulin,
A. Milan, J. Gall, and B. Schiele. PoseTrack: A benchmark
for human pose estimation and tracking. In CVPR, 2018. 2
[3] M. Andriluka, J. Uijlings, and V. Ferrari. Fluid annotation: a
human-machine collaboration interface for full image anno-
tation. arXiv preprint arXiv:1806.07527, 2018. 3
[4] K. Bernardin and R. Stiefelhagen. Evaluating multiple object
tracking performance: The clear mot metrics. EURASIP J.
Image and Video Processing, 2008. 4
[5] L. Beyer, S. Breuers, V. Kurin, and B. Leibe.
Towards a
principled integration of multi-camera re-identiﬁcation and
tracking through optimal bayes ﬁlters. In CVPRW, 2017. 5
[6] S. Caelles, K.-K. Maninis, J. Pont-Tuset, L. Leal-Taix´e,
D. Cremers, and L. Van Gool. One-shot video object seg-
mentation. In CVPR, 2017. 3
[7] S. Caelles, A. Montes, K.-K. Maninis, Y. Chen, L. Van
Gool, F. Perazzi, and J. Pont-Tuset.
The 2018 DAVIS
challenge on video object segmentation.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:1803.00557, 2018. 1
[8] J. Carreira and A. Zisserman. Quo vadis, action recognition?
A new model and the kinetics dataset. In CVPR, 2017. 5
[9] L. Castrejon, K. Kundu, R. Urtasun, and S. Fidler. Anno-
tating object instances with a polygon-rnn. In CVPR, 2017.
3
[10] L.-C. Chen, Y. Zhu, G. Papandreou, F. Schroff, and H. Adam.
Encoder-decoder with atrous separable convolution for se-
mantic image segmentation. In ECCV, 2018. 3
[11] B. Collins, J. Deng, K. Li, and L. Fei-Fei. Towards scalable
dataset construction: An active learning approach. In ECCV,
2008. 3
[12] M. Cordts, M. Omran, S. Ramos, T. Rehfeld, M. Enzweiler,
R. Benenson, U. Franke, S. Roth, and B. Schiele.
The
cityscapes dataset for semantic urban scene understanding.
In CVPR, 2016. 2
[13] A. Geiger, P. Lenz, and R. Urtasun. Are we ready for au-
tonomous driving? the KITTI vision benchmark suite. In
CVPR, 2012. 2, 3, 11
[14] R. Hadsell, S. Chopra, and Y. Lecun. Dimensionality reduc-
tion by learning an invariant mapping. In CVPR, 2006. 11
[15] K. He, G. Gkioxari, P. Doll´ar, and R. Girshick. Mask R-
CNN. In ICCV, 2017. 2, 3, 5
[16] K. He, X. Zhang, S. Ren, and J. Sun. Deep residual learning
for image recognition. In CVPR, 2016. 5, 6
[17] R. Henschel, L. Leal-Taix, D. Cremers, and B. Rosenhahn.
Fusion of head and full-body detectors for multi-object track-
ing. In CVPRW, 2018. 8
[18] A. Hermans, L. Beyer, and B. Leibe.
In defense of the
triplet loss for person re-identiﬁcation.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:1703.07737, 2017. 5, 6, 11
[19] X. Huang, X. Cheng, Q. Geng, B. Cao, D. Zhou, P. Wang,
Y. Lin, and R. Yang. The apolloscape dataset for autonomous
driving. arXiv preprint arXiv:1803.06184, 2018. 2
[20] S. D. Jain and K. Grauman.
Supervoxel-consistent fore-
ground propagation in video. In ECCV, 2014. 2
[21] M. Keuper, S. Tang, B. Andres, T. Brox, and B. Schiele. Mo-
tion segmentation & multiple object tracking by correlation
co-clustering. PAMI, 2018. 8
[22] C. Kim, F. Li, A. Ciptadi, and J. M. Rehg. Multiple hypoth-
esis tracking revisited. In ICCV, 2015. 8
[23] D. P. Kingma and J. Ba. Adam: A method for stochastic
optimization. In ICLR, 2015. 6
[24] A. Kirillov, K. He, R. Girshick, C. Rother, and P. Doll´ar.
Panoptic segmentation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1801.00868,
2018. 4
[25] Y. J. Koh and C. S. Kim. CDTS: Collaborative detection,
tracking, and segmentation for online multiple object seg-
mentation in videos. In ICCV, 2017. 2
[26] M. Kristan, J. Matas, A. Leonardis, T. Vojir, R. Pﬂugfelder,
G. Fernandez, G. Nebehay, F. Porikli, and L. ˇCehovin. A
novel performance evaluation methodology for single-target
trackers. PAMI, 2016. 1
[27] L. Leal-Taix´e, A. Milan, I. Reid, S. Roth, and K. Schindler.
MOTChallenge 2015: Towards a benchmark for multi-target
tracking. arXiv preprint arXiv:1504.01942, 2015. 2
[28] L. Leal-Taix´e, A. Milan, K. Schindler, D. Cremers, I. Reid,
and S. Roth.
Tracking the trackers: an analysis of the
state of the art in multiple object tracking. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1704.02781, 2017. 2
[29] F. Li, T. Kim, A. Humayun, D. Tsai, and J. M. Rehg. Video
segmentation by tracking many ﬁgure-ground segments. In
ICCV, 2013. 2
[30] T.-Y. Lin, M. Maire, S. Belongie, J. Hays, P. Perona, D. Ra-
manan, P. Doll´ar, and C. L. Zitnick. Microsoft COCO: Com-
mon objects in context. In ECCV, 2014. 3, 6
[31] M. Liu and M. Zhu.
Mobile video object detection with
temporally-aware feature maps. CVPR, 2018. 5
[32] C. Long, A. Haizhou, Z. Zijie, and S. Chong. Real-time mul-
tiple people tracking with deeply learned candidate selection
and person re-identiﬁcation. In ICME, 2018. 5, 8
[33] D. Lowell, Z. C. Lipton, and B. C. Wallace. How transferable
are the datasets collected by active learners? arXiv preprint
arXiv:1807.04801, 2018. 3
[34] Y. Lu, C. Lu, and C.-K. Tang. Online video object detection
using association LSTM. In ICCV, 2017. 2
[35] J. Luiten, P. Voigtlaender, and B. Leibe.
PReMVOS:
Proposal-generation, reﬁnement and merging for video ob-
ject segmentation. In ACCV, 2018. 3, 5, 6
[36] S. Lyu, M.-C. Chang, D. Du, L. Wen, H. Qi, Y. Li, Y. Wei,
L. Ke, T. Hu, M. Del Coco, et al. UA-DETRAC 2017: Re-
port of AVSS2017 & IWT4S challenge on advanced trafﬁc
monitoring. In Advanced Video and Signal Based Surveil-
lance (AVSS), 2017. 2
[37] S. Manen, M. Gygli, D. Dai, and L. Van Gool. Pathtrack:
Fast trajectory annotation with path supervision. In ICCV,
2017. 2
[38] A. Milan, L. Leal-Taix´e, I. Reid, S. Roth, and K. Schindler.
MOT16: A benchmark for multi-object tracking.
arXiv
preprint arXiv:1603.00831, 2016. 1, 2, 4

[39] A. Milan, L. Leal-Taix´e, K. Schindler, and I. Reid. Joint
tracking and segmentation of multiple targets.
In CVPR,
2015. 2
[40] G. Neuhold, T. Ollmann, S. R. Bulo, and P. Kontschieder.
The Mapillary Vistas dataset for semantic understanding of
street scenes. In ICCV, 2017. 3, 6
[41] P. Ochs, J. Malik, and T. Brox.
Segmentation of moving
objects by long term video analysis. PAMI, 2014. 2
[42] A. Oˇsep, W. Mehner, M. Mathias, and B. Leibe. Combined
image- and world-space tracking in trafﬁc scenes. In ICRA,
2017. 6, 7
[43] A. Oˇsep, W. Mehner, P. Voigtlaender, and B. Leibe. Track,
then decide: Category-agnostic vision-based multi-object
tracking. ICRA, 2018. 2, 5, 6, 7
[44] F. Perazzi, J. Pont-Tuset, B. McWilliams, L. Van Gool,
M. Gross, and A. Sorkine-Hornung. A benchmark dataset
and evaluation methodology for video object segmentation.
In CVPR, 2016. 2
[45] P. Pinheiro, T. Lin, R. Collobert, and P. Doll´ar. Learning to
reﬁne object segments. In ECCV, 2016. 7
[46] J. Pont-Tuset, F. Perazzi, S. Caelles, P. Arbel´aez, A. Sorkine-
Hornung, and L. Van Gool.
The 2017 DAVIS chal-
lenge on video object segmentation.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:1704.00675, 2017. 2
[47] A. Prest, C. Leistner, J. Civera, C. Schmid, and V. Fer-
rari. Learning object class detectors from weakly annotated
video. In CVPR, 2012. 2
[48] J. Ren, X. Chen, J. Liu, W. Sun, J. Pang, Q. Yan, Y.-W. Tai,
and L. Xu. Accurate single stage detector using recurrent
rolling convolution. In CVPR, 2017. 7
[49] S. Ren, K. He, R. Girshick, and J. Sun. Faster R-CNN: To-
wards real-time object detection with region proposal net-
works. In NeurIPS, 2015. 5
[50] C. Rother, V. Kolmogorov, and A. Blake. GrabCut: Inter-
active foreground extraction using iterated graph cuts.
In
SIGGRAPH, 2004. 3
[51] A. Sadeghian, A. Alahi, and S. Savarese. Tracking the un-
trackable: Learning to track multiple cues with long-term
dependencies. In ICCV, 2017. 2
[52] G. Seguin, P. Bojanowski, R. Lajugie, and I. Laptev.
Instance-level video segmentation from object tracks.
In
CVPR, 2016. 2
[53] S. Sharma, J. A. Ansari, J. K. Murthy, and K. M. Krishna.
Beyond pixels: Leveraging geometry and shape cues for on-
line multi-object tracking. In ICRA, 2018. 6, 7
[54] X. Shi, Z. Chen, H. Wang, D.-Y. Yeung, W.-k. Wong, and W.-
c. Woo. Convolutional LSTM network: A machine learning
approach for precipitation nowcasting. In NeurIPS, 2015. 5
[55] D. Sun, X. Yang, M.-Y. Liu, and J. Kautz. PWC-Net: CNNs
for optical ﬂow using pyramid, warping, and cost volume. In
CVPR, 2018. 6
[56] S. Tang, M. Andriluka, B. Andres, and B. Schiele. Multi peo-
ple tracking with lifted multicut and person re-identiﬁcation.
In CVPR, 2017. 5
[57] C. Vondrick and D. Ramanan. Video annotation and tracking
with active learning. In NeurIPS, 2011. 3
[58] L. Wen, D. Du, Z. Cai, Z. Lei, M. Chang, H. Qi, J. Lim,
M. Yang, and S. Lyu.
UA-DETRAC: A new benchmark
and protocol for multi-object detection and tracking. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1511.04136, 2015. 2
[59] N. Xu, B. L. Price, S. Cohen, J. Yang, and T. S. Huang. Deep
interactive object selection. In CVPR, 2016. 3
[60] N. Xu, L. Yang, Y. Fan, J. Yang, D. Yue, Y. Liang, B. Price,
S. Cohen, and T. Huang.
YouTube-VOS: Sequence-to-
sequence video object segmentation. In ECCV, 2018. 2
[61] F. Yang, W. Choi, and Y. Lin. Exploit all the layers: Fast and
accurate cnn object detector with scale dependent pooling
and cascaded rejection classiﬁers. In CVPR, 2016. 8
[62] F. Yu, W. Xian, Y. Chen, F. Liu, M. Liao, V. Madha-
van, and T. Darrell.
BDD100K: A diverse driving video
database with scalable annotation tooling.
arXiv preprint
arXiv: 1805.04687, 2018. 2
[63] Z. Zheng, L. Zheng, and Y. Yang. A discriminatively learned
cnn embedding for person reidentiﬁcation. ACM Transac-
tions on Multimedia Computing, Communications, and Ap-
plications, 2017. 5

Supplemental Material
A. Losses for the Association Head
TrackR-CNN uses association scores based on vectors
predicted by an association head to identify the same object
across time. In our baseline model, we train this head using
a batch hard triplet loss proposed by Hermans et al. [18],
which we state again here: Let D denote the set of detec-
tions for a video. Each detection d ∈D has a corresponding
association vector ad and is assigned a ground truth track
id idd determined by its overlap with the ground truth ob-
jects (we only consider detections which sufﬁciently over-
lap with a ground truth object here). For a video sequence
of T time steps, the association loss in the batch-hard for-
mulation with margin α is then given by
Lbatch hard =
1
|D|
X
d∈D
max
 max
e∈D:
ide=idd
∥ae −ad∥−
min
e∈D:
ide̸=idd
∥ae −ad∥+ α, 0

.
(10)
Intuitively, each detection d is selected as an anchor and
then the most dissimilar detection with the same id is se-
lected as a hard positive example and the most similar detec-
tion with a different id is selected as a hard negative exam-
ple for this anchor. The margin α and maximum operation
ensure that the distance of the anchor to the hard positive is
smaller than its distance to the hard negative example by at
least α.
In order to justify our choice of the batch-hard loss, we
also report results using two alternative loss formulations,
namely the batch all loss [18] which considers all pairs of
detections, i.e.
Lbatch all =
1
|D|2
X
d∈D
X
e∈D
max
 ∥ae −ad∥−
∥ae −ad∥+ α, 0

(11)
and the contrastive loss [14]
Lcontrastive =
1
|D|2
  X
d∈D
X
e∈D
ide=idd
∥ae −ad∥2+
X
d∈D
X
e∈D
ide̸=idd
max(α −∥ae −ad∥, 0)2
.
(12)
Table 6 compares the performance of these different vari-
ants of the loss function on the KITTI MOTS validation set.
It can be seen that the batch hard triplet loss performs bet-
ter than just considering all pairs of detections (Batch All
Triplet), or using the conventional contrastive loss (Con-
trastive). Especially for pedestrians performance using the
contrastive loss is low.
Association Loss
sMOTSA
MOTSA
MOTSP
Car
Ped
Car
Ped
Car
Ped
Batch Hard Triplet
76.2
46.8
87.8
65.1
87.2
75.7
Batch All Triplet
75.5
45.3
87.1
63.8
87.1
75.6
Contrastive
76.4
43.2
88.7
61.5
86.7
75.2
Table 6: Different Association Losses for TrackR-CNN.
Comparison of results on the KITTI MOTS validation set.
sMOTSA
MOTSA
MOTSP
Car
Ped
Car
Ped
Car
Ped
GT Boxes (orig) + Filling
33.7
-66.1
55.5
-57.7
71.8
54.6
GT Boxes (orig) + Ellipse
52.3
-31.9
74.0
-14.5
74.9
57.4
GT Boxes (orig) + MG
77.3
36.5
90.4
55.7
86.3
75.3
GT Boxes (tight) + Filling
61.3
-1.7
83.9
22.0
75.4
60.5
GT Boxes (tight) + Ellipse
70.9
17.2
91.8
42.4
78.1
64.2
GT Boxes (tight) + MG
82.5
50.0
95.3
71.1
86.9
75.4
Table 7: Ground Truth Results on KITTI MOTS. +MG
denotes mask generation with a KITTI MOTS ﬁne-tuned
Mask R-CNN..
B. Details of the Annotation Procedure
We noticed that wrong segmentation results often stem
from imprecise or wrong bounding box annotations of the
original MOT datasets. For example, the annotated bound-
ing boxes for the KITTI tracking dataset [13] are amodal,
i.e., they extend to the ground even if only the upper body
of a person is visible. In these cases, our annotators cor-
rected these bounding boxes instead of adding additional
polygon annotations. We also corrected the bounding box
level tracking annotations in cases where they contained
errors or missed objects. Finally, we retained ignore re-
gions that were labeled in the source datasets, i.e., image
regions that contain unlabeled objects from nearby classes
(like vans and buses) or target objects that were to small to
be labeled. Hypothesized masks that are mapped to ignore
regions are neither counted as true nor as false positives in
our evaluation procedure.
C. Ground Truth Experiments
We performed additional experiments to demonstrate the
difﬁculty of generating accurate segmentation masks even
when the ground truth bounding boxes are given (see Ta-
ble 7). As in the main paper, we consider two variants of
the ground truth: the original bounding boxes from KITTI
(orig), which are amodal, i.e. if only the upper body of a
person is visible, the box will still extend to the ground,
and tight bounding boxes (tight) derived from our segmen-
tation masks. We created masks for the boxes by simply
ﬁlling the full box (+Filling), by inserting an ellipse (+El-
lipse), and by generating masks using the KITTI MOTS

ﬁne-tuned Mask R-CNN (+MG). In each case, instance ids
are retained from the corresponding boxes.
Our results show that rectangles and ellipses are not
sufﬁcient to accurately localize objects when mask-based
matching is used, even with perfect track hypotheses. The
problem is ampliﬁed when using amodal boxes, which of-
ten contain large regions that do not show the object. This
further validates our claim that MOT tasks can beneﬁt from
pixel-wise evaluation. The relatively low scores for pedes-
trians also imply a limit to post-hoc masks generation using
the KITTI ﬁne-tuned Mask R-CNN.
D. Visualization of Association Vectors
We present a visualization of the association vectors pro-
duced by our TrackR-CNN model on a sequence of the
KITTI MOTS validation set in Figure 5. Here, all associa-
tion vectors for detections produced by TrackR-CNN on se-
quence 18 were used for principal component analysis and
then projected onto the two components explaining most of
their variance. The resulting two dimensional vectors were
used to arrange the crops for the corresponding detections
in 2D. The visualization was created using the TensorBoard
embedding projector. It can be seen that crops belonging
to the same car are in most cases close to each other in the
embedding space.
E. Qualitative results
We present further qualitative results of our baseline
TrackR-CNN model on the KITTI MOTS and MOTSChal-
lenge validation sets including some illustrative failure
cases. See Figures 6, 7, 8 and 9 on the following pages.

Figure 5: Visualization using PCA on the association vectors of detections generated by TrackR-CNN on sequence 18
of KITTI MOTS. Detections with similar appearance are grouped together by minimizing the association loss.

Figure 6: Qualitative Results on MOTSChallenge. While complex scenes with many occluding objects often work well,
there can still be missing detections and id switches during difﬁcult occlusions, as in this example (highlighted by red
ellipses).

Figure 7: Qualitative Results on KITTI MOTS. In simpler scenes, the model is able to continue a track with the same ID
after a missing detection (highlighted by red ellipses).

Figure 8: Qualitative Results on KITTI MOTS. In a rare failure case, pylons are confused for pedestrians (highlighted by
red ellipses). In most cases, detections correspond to real instances of the class.

Figure 9: Qualitative Results on KITTI MOTS. In less crowded scenes, distinguishing objects works well but some erro-
neous detections (highlighted by red ellipses) might still happen.
