Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 202 (2022) 107419
Available online 20 October 2022
0168-1699/© 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/compag
Original papers
An RGB-D multi-view perspective for autonomous agricultural robots
Fabio Vulpi a,b, Roberto Marani a, Antonio Petitti a, Giulio Reina b, Annalisa Milella a,∗
a Institute of Intelligent Industrial Technologies and Systems for Advanced Manufacturing (STIIMA), National Research Council of Italy (CNR), via Amendola 122,
D-O, Bari, 70126, Italy
b Department of Mechanics, Mathematics and Management, Polytechnic of Bari, Via Orabona 4, Bari, 70125, Italy
A R T I C L E
I N F O
Keywords:
Agricultural robotics
Advanced perception
RGB-D sensing
Multi-view imaging
Environment mapping
Precision farming
A B S T R A C T
Automated in-field data gathering is essential for crop monitoring and management and for precision farming
treatments. To this end, consumer-grade digital cameras have been shown to offer a flexible and affordable
sensing solution. This paper describes the integration and development of a cost-effective multi-view RGB-
D device for sensing and modeling of agricultural environments. The system features three RGB-D sensors,
arranged to cover a horizontal field of view of about 130 deg in front of the vehicle, and a suite of localization
sensors consisting of a tracking camera, an RTK-GPS sensor and an IMU device. The system is intended to be
mounted on-board an agricultural vehicle to provide multi-channel information of the surveyed scene including
color, infrared and depth images, which are then combined with localization data to build a multi-view 3D geo-
referenced map of the traversed crop. The experimental demonstrator of the multi-sensor system is presented
along with the steps for the integration of the different sensor data into a unique multi-view map. Results
of field experiments conducted in a commercial vineyard are included, as well, showing the effectiveness of
the proposed system. The resulting map could be useful for precision agriculture applications, including crop
health monitoring, and to support autonomous driving.
1. Introduction
Persistent and timely crop monitoring is crucial for the development
of sustainable food production systems. While remote sensing from
satellites and aircrafts has been successfully used for some decades
to allow for rapidly mapping and characterize wide areas through
acquisition of multispectral imagery and 3D data, they generally lack
the spatio-temporal resolution needed for precision agriculture or phe-
notyping tasks. In crops with smaller extension, Unmanned Aerial
Vehicles (UAVs) have been effectively adopted for remote crop sur-
vey with higher spatial and temporal resolution compared to satellite
and airborne devices. In high-density crops, however, collecting in-
formation on biophysical properties at plant or leaf/fruit level via
aerial sensing may be still infeasible. As a result, ground-based sensing
through Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGVs) has been proposed for
in-field close-range applications (Reina et al., 2016).
In this respect, imaging sensors embedded on ground vehicles have
recently attracted much attention as an effective solution to collect high
resolution proximal data and provide information on plant character-
istics at centimetre or sub-centimetre scale. At the same time, they
can be used for vehicle guidance automation and scene perception
and understanding in general, thus contributing to all aspects of crop
∗Corresponding author.
E-mail address: annalisa.milella@stiima.cnr.it (A. Milella).
monitoring automation, from data gathering up to high-level data
processing and interpretation.
Among imaging sensors, consumer-grade RGB-D cameras, i.e., sen-
sors that embed color and depth sensing into a unique device, have
emerged in the last years in mobile robotics applications, to provide
the vehicle with a real-time representation of both appearance and 3D
structure of the environment. One shortcoming of typical consumer-
grade color-depth sensors is their limited field-of-view, which makes
them unsuitable for applications that need continuous survey of exten-
sive areas, like in agricultural settings.
In this work, a multi-view RGB-D camera system is proposed to
enhance the perception ability of an unmanned agricultural robot. The
system features three RGB-D cameras arranged to cover a horizontal
field of view of about 130 deg. The cameras are integrated with
localization sensors, including a stereo-based tracking camera, an RTK-
GPS and an IMU, which provide accurate vehicle position information
for image geo-referencing based on Extended Information Filter (EIF).
All the sensors are physically integrated in a custom-built sensor box,
which is designed to be self-contained from both a computational
and energy point of view and independent from the particular vehicle
architecture. The system is intended to generate accurate maps to
facilitate operations on a narrow scale with a smaller environment
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2022.107419
Received 24 December 2021; Received in revised form 29 September 2022; Accepted 30 September 2022

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 202 (2022) 107419
2
F. Vulpi et al.
footprint. To this end, a point cloud assembler that uses EIF-based pose
estimates and the known relative poses between sensors is developed
to reconstruct a geo-referenced multi-view 3-D map of the traversed
environment, which could provide a useful input to precision farming
technologies and crop monitoring tasks.
An additional use of the map is that it can be incorporated into
a high-fidelity simulator that can support the development and pre-
testing of algorithms for autonomous driving. In this respect, the map
can be converted into a mesh representation using the Ball Pivoting
Algorithm (BPA) and imported into a simulation environment under
Gazebo (Gazebo simulator, 2021).
The rest of the paper is structured as follows. First, related work
is presented in Section 2. The hardware and software design of the
multi-view sensing device is reported in Section 3. Section 4 describes
the multi-view 3D mapping approach. The simulator is detailed in
Section 5. Experimental results obtained in real agricultural settings are
presented in Section 6. Finally, conclusions are drawn in Section 7.
2. Related work
The availability of up-to-date and accurate data is an essential pre-
requisite for precision farming tasks, such as variable rate application
of fertilizers/pesticides, identification of infected plants or invasive
species, and controlled traffic farming. While satellite and airborne
technologies have been in use for some decades to effectively provide
multi-spectral and 3D information in wide agricultural and forestry
areas, these platforms generally lack the resolution needed to observe
stems, leaves or fruits. Satellite images typically have pixel resolution
of hundreds of meters and airborne sensing may provide resolution
of a few meters, whereas monitoring orchards or vineyards requires
observations at a smaller scale. Information update frequency is also
limited, varying from hours to several days. In crops with smaller exten-
sion, UAVs equipped with RGB, multispectral or LiDAR sensors, have
been adopted to overcome these bottlenecks, allowing for efficient crop
survey at user-defined spatio-temporal resolutions to assess vegetation
vigor or for canopy characterization (Matese et al., 2015; Comba et al.,
2018). However, in high density crops, using aerial data can still be
ineffective for precise measurement at leaf/fruit level, e.g., for health
status assessment and yield estimation.
As an alternative or complementary approach, proximal sensing
from ground-based or manually deployed devices can be performed.
Proximal sensors range from RGB cameras to high-resolution hyper-
spectral imaging, infrared (IR) thermal cameras, and 2D/3D LiDARs.
Applications include fruit detection and counting (Gongal et al., 2015),
up to plant phenotyping (Li et al., 2020), health status assessment and
growth monitoring (Ma et al., 2017; Jiang et al., 2019). While these
methods were proved to be effective and accurate for detailed informa-
tion extraction, they are often constrained to structured environments,
such as greenhouses and specific acquisition conditions, such as con-
trolled illumination or pre-defined positioning of the sensing devices,
or they require the adoption of expensive high-resolution sensors (Mack
et al., 2017), which limits their practical implementation.
In order to address these issues, crop monitoring by agricultural
ground robots has been proposed as a step forward to automated
proximal measurement and characterization of high-value crops and
soils (Milella et al., 2019a,b). While much work has been done in
the context of ground robots for harvesting and picking operations,
the use of UGVs for in-field crop monitoring and assessment has been
proposed more recently. UGVs can carry a number of sensing devices,
thus potentially providing an efficient means to gather multi-modal
information at a narrow scale. At the same time, they can be equipped
with manipulators and actuators to perform targeted actions, such as
selective spraying or fertilizing, with relatively high operating times.
Although UGVs offer enough payload to transport a number of bulky
sensors, keeping low complexity and costs is a major requirement for in-
field implementation. In this respect, visual sensors mounted on ground
robots have been shown to provide an efficient and affordable solution
in a wide range of agricultural applications, including plant and fruit
detection, fruit grading, ripeness detection, yield prediction, plant and
fruit health protection and disease detection. In addition, visual sensors
provide a rich source of information to support autonomous naviga-
tion functions such as localization, obstacle detection and situation
awareness in general (Reina et al., 2016; Milella and Reina, 2014).
Among visual sensors, portable consumer-grade RGB-D cameras,
like Microsoft Kinect, have been receiving growing attention, as an
effective means to recover in real-time 3D textured models of plants
and extract plant and fruit features (Chéné et al., 2012), although the
application of this sensor remains mostly limited to indoor contexts.
A novel family of highly portable, consumer depth cameras has been
introduced by Intel in 2015 (R200 and D4xx, Santa Clara, CA, USA).
These cameras are similar to the Kinect sensor in scope and cost, but
use a different working principle based on IR stereo, which makes them
more suitable for outdoor conditions. In addition, their output include
RGB information, infrared images and 3D depth data, thus covering
a wide range of information about the scene. The potential of these
sensors for agricultural applications has been investigated in recent
works (Devanna et al., 2022; Condotta et al., 2020).
Following this research trend, this work explores the potential of
a multi-view RGB-D system for geo-referenced image acquisition and
mapping of a high-value crop, like a vineyard. The device is built
following a modular approach and can be mounted on any agricultural
vehicle to provide ground-based 3D reconstruction of the traversed
crop rows. Data acquisition and processing can be carried out during
vehicle operations, in a non-invasive and completely automatic way,
while requiring low investment and maintenance costs.
One specific aspect addressed is accurate vehicle localization. Lo-
calization of the UGV is essential for correct merging of point cloud
streams and thus for the construction of geo-referenced 3-D maps.
In Imperoli et al. (2018), the UGV pose estimation problem is for-
mulated as a pose graph optimization to mitigate sensor drift and
significantly improve state estimation accuracy using a Digital Eleva-
tion Model (DEM) and a Markov Random Field (MRF) assumption.
Authors in Habibie et al. (2017) proposed a Simultaneous Localization
And Mapping (SLAM) method for generating the map of an agricultural
environment and simulated it on Gazebo and Robot Operating System
(ROS) for the case of an apple farm, showing good results in fruit
mapping. A well-established solution to the localization problem to fuse
information from multiple sensors is Kalman filtering. In this work, we
use the information form of the Kalman Filter as data fusion strategy for
heterogeneous sensors. The reason is related to the high reliability of
such algorithm, as confirmed by recent research (e.g.,Hage et al. (2019)
and Xu et al. (2022)). Other alternatives have been investigated in the
literature, including, for example, particle filtering, which however has
proven to be less accurate for localization purposes (Ullah et al., 2020;
Reina et al., 2021).
3. Multi-view sensing device
This section describes the development of a multi-sensor box for
close range sensing and modeling of agricultural environments. The
sensor suite is intended to be mounted on board an agricultural robot
and is designed to be self-contained, both from a computational and
energy point of view, and independent from the particular vehicle
architecture.
3.1. Hardware design
The sensor suite is shown in Fig. 1(a). It consists of two sensor
arrays, namely a Perception Sensors array and a Navigation Sensors array.
The perception sensors include three Intel RealSense D435 RGB-D
cameras arranged to cover a wide horizontal field of view of about 130
deg in front of the vehicle, which extends up to about 145 deg when

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 202 (2022) 107419
3
F. Vulpi et al.
Fig. 1. (a) Demonstrator of the UGV’s sensor box: (1)–(2) Intel NUC Windows PCs; (3) Batteries, (4) T265 Camera, (5) D435 Cameras, (6) X-Sense MTI-300 IMU, (7) U-blox ZED
F9P board, (8) Sensor Box GPS antenna. (b) Closeup of the multi-camera system. (c) CAD model of the sensor frame.
considering infrared depth information only. The mounting case allows
one to alternatively place up to two cameras in lateral configuration,
e.g., to keep the image plane parallel to a crop row for tasks such
as row following and/or monitoring. A closeup of the multi-camera
system is shown in Fig. 1(b). The navigation sensors comprise one Intel
RealSense tracking camera T265, one X-Sense IMU MTi-300 and two U-
Blox GPS Zed-F9P providing RTK-GPS data in rover-base configuration.
All sensors are integrated in a 3-D printed PLA box (see Fig. 1(c)),
which was designed following a modular approach, so that it can be
assembled in multiple ways according to the specific needs of the test
field. The described sensor suite can be fixed to the vehicle through
a metal frame, built with aluminium bars and plates and designed to
be stable and of adjustable height. Two Intel NUC7i7DNHE computers
are used for data gathering. The PCs, powered by lithium batteries, are
fixed at the bottom of the metal frame. Overall, the proposed sensor
box provides a flexible and self-contained data gathering device with a
cost of about 6.5ke (i.e., 27% for the two processing units, 45% for the
IMU, 14% for the cameras, 7% for the GPS, and 7% for the batteries).
3.2. Acquisition software design
The data gathering pipeline of the sensor suite is shown in Fig. 2.
The sensor box provides two processing units, one running Ubuntu
and the other running Windows 11. The NUC Ubuntu is devoted to
gathering positional measurements produced by the GPS sensor and
the IMU sensor. Data acquisition is made through ROS drivers using
a dedicated ROS node for each sensor. Then, all the acquired data are
stored in ROS bags.
For image acquisition and storage, a software package, named
SensorBox, was developed using the Intel RealSense SDK 2.0 (v. 2.49),
running on NUC Windows. The software architecture of the whole pack-
age is divided into two executables: MultiBagReader and MultiBagWriter.
The scheme of the first executable (MultiBagWriter) is shown in Fig. 3. It
works in a producer–consumer logic, where the Intel RealSense cameras
connected to the processing unit are first opened to produce the data
which is then consumed, i.e. displayed, to show the acquired field of
view and/or the computed visual odometry. Then, when the user starts
the acquisition, the data are encapsulated in several ROS bags, stored
on the local hard disk of the NUC. In this way, each camera produces
a bag file at the maximum achievable rate (up to 30 fps), without
any further processing to prevent frame drops. It is worth noticing
that each camera works in a free run mode and, thus, their frames
are not temporally synchronized, i.e. acquired exactly at the same
time instant. The second executable (MultiBagReader) opens the bags,
divides the RealSense pipelines to have single streams in each pipeline,
and then reports all the acquired frames to a global temporal reference,

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 202 (2022) 107419
4
F. Vulpi et al.
Fig. 2. Sensor box data flow.
Fig. 3. Schematic of the image acquisition software.
thus performing software synchronization. The software features a user
interface for both writing and reading modules, as shown in Fig. 4.
The open-source code of the software is available on GitHub (https:
//github.com/ispstiima/SensorBox).
3.3. Sensor synchronization and calibration
The association of heterogeneous data requires temporal and spatial
calibration. For time synchronization, a timestamp-based approach
was adopted, whereby each sensor observation was marked with a
timestamp. In addition, to register all sensor data with respect to a
common reference frame, spatial calibration was performed to estimate
the relative position and orientation of the sensors with respect to each
other. Spatial calibration was performed by construction, considering
that all the sensors are located in the sensor box at fixed positions.
This proved to be sufficiently accurate for the purpose of this work,
although optimization strategies, such as the one proposed by the
authors in Petitti et al. (2021), can be also adopted to further improve
the registration accuracy.
4. Multi-view 3D mapping
The data acquired by the sensor suite are processed to build a multi-
view map of the traversed environment, following multiple stages. First,
data from GPS, IMU and T265 sensors are fused by an EIF to generate
pose estimates. Successively, the point clouds obtained by each of the
three RGB-D cameras are assembled into a unique map, using the EIF
pose estimates and the known relative poses between the sensors. The
map can be then converted into a 3D mesh representation for efficient
storage and inspection, as well as, for import in a dedicated simulation
environment, as will be described later in Section 5. In more detail,
with reference to Fig. 1, let us introduce the reference frames denoted
with the following subscripts:
• 𝑠𝑏: Sensor Box frame (Fig. 1, a-6)
• 𝑤: East-North-Up world frame (Fig. 1, a-8)
• 𝑐𝑎𝑚: Camera Frame (Fig. 1, a-5)
• 𝑠: Reference frame for the 𝑠th sensor (RTK-GPS, T265, IMU).
Furthermore, quantities of interest are presented here to facilitate
the understanding of the mapping reconstruction process:
• 𝑝𝐵−𝐴(𝑡) ∈R1,3: position vector of reference frame 𝐴at time 𝑡
expressed in reference frame 𝐵
• 𝐪𝐵−𝐴(𝑡) ∈C1,4: quaternion orientation of reference frame 𝐴at
time 𝑡expressed in reference frame 𝐵. Note that only quaternions
are denoted in bold.

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 202 (2022) 107419
5
F. Vulpi et al.
Fig. 4. User interface of the multi-view camera system: (a) interface for data acquisition and storage (MultiBagWriter); (b) interface for reading stored image databases
(MultiBagReader).
For the reader’s convenience, basic concepts on quaternion analysis
appear in
Appendix. The interested reader is referred to the literature
(e.g., Choset et al. (2004)) for more details.
The mapping algorithm proceeds according to the following three
steps:
1. Pose estimation: position and orientation of the sensor box can
be estimated from different sensors (RTK-GPS, T265, IMU) and
fused within an EIF. In general, the sensor 𝑠can provide infor-
mation about its position and orientation expressed either in the
world frame or with respect to its initial pose. In the former case,
Eqs. (1) give the sensor box orientation 𝐪𝑤−𝑠𝑏and position 𝑝𝑤−𝑠𝑏
in the world frame, knowing 𝐪𝑠−𝑠𝑏and 𝑝𝑠𝑏−𝑠
𝐪𝑤−𝑠𝑏(𝑡) = 𝐪𝑤−𝑠(𝑡)𝐪𝑠−𝑠𝑏
[𝑝𝑤−𝑠𝑏(𝑡), 0] = [𝑝𝑤−𝑠(𝑡), 0] −𝐪𝑤−𝑠𝑏(𝑡)[𝑝𝑠𝑏−𝑠, 0]
(1)
If the sensor provides 𝑝𝑠0−𝑠(𝑡) and 𝐪𝑠0−𝑠(𝑡) with respect to its
initial condition 𝑠0, Eqs. (2) compute 𝑝𝑤−𝑠𝑏and 𝐪𝑤−𝑠𝑏
𝐪𝑤−𝑠𝑏(𝑡) = 𝐪𝑤−𝑠𝑏0𝐪𝑠𝑏0−𝑠(𝑡)𝐪𝑠−𝑠𝑏
[𝑝𝑤−𝑠𝑏(𝑡), 0] = 𝐪𝑤−𝑠𝑏0𝐪𝑠𝑏−𝑠[𝑝𝑠0−𝑠(𝑡), 0]𝐪𝑠−𝑠𝑏𝐪𝑠𝑏0−𝑤−
+ 𝐪𝑤−𝑠𝑏(𝑡)[𝑝𝑠𝑏−𝑠, 0]
+ [𝑝𝑤−𝑠𝑏0, 0]
(2)
Apart from 𝐪𝑠𝑏−𝑠= 𝐪−1
𝑠−𝑠𝑏, initial position and orientation of the
sensor box in the world frame (𝑝𝑤−𝑠𝑏0 and 𝐪𝑤−𝑠𝑏0) are needed to
compute 𝑝𝑤−𝑠𝑏and 𝐪𝑤−𝑠𝑏. In Eqs. (2) notation [𝑝, 0] indicates the
quaternion with zero real part corresponding to position vector
𝑝.
Please note that in both Eqs. (1) and (2) quaternion multiplica-
tion is omitted for ease of notation.

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 202 (2022) 107419
6
F. Vulpi et al.
Fig. 5. Gazebo simulation environment composed of a vineyard row and a mobile robot.
The predictive model used to implement the EIF is expressed by
Eqs. (3)̃
𝑝𝑡+1|𝑡=̃ 𝑝𝑡|𝑡+̃ 𝑣𝑡|𝑡⋅𝛥𝑡
[̃𝑣𝑡+1|𝑡, 0] = [̃𝑣𝑡|𝑡, 0] + (̃𝐪𝑡|𝑡[𝑎𝑠𝑏, 0]̃𝐪−1
𝑡|𝑡−[𝑔, 0]) ⋅𝛥𝑡̃
𝐪𝑡+1|𝑡= ‖(̃𝐪𝑡|𝑡+ 𝛥𝑡
2 ⋅̃ 𝐪𝑡|𝑡[𝜔𝑠𝑏, 0])‖
(3)
where positioñ 𝑝, velocitỹ 𝑣, and quaternioñ 𝐪describe the state
of the sensor box over time expressed in the 𝑤frame. Subscript
𝑡+ 1|𝑡denotes predicted value and 𝑡|𝑡indicates posterior value
corrected with measurements. Expression ‖𝐪‖ represents quater-
nion normalization. Angular velocity 𝜔𝑠𝑏and linear acceleration
𝑎𝑠𝑏are measurements provided by the IMU and expressed in the
𝑠𝑏frame, and 𝑔denotes gravity acceleration in the world frame.
2. Point cloud assembly The pose estimates are then used to trans-
form and assemble the point clouds provided by each RGB-D
camera in its own frame. Denoting with 𝑃𝑐𝑎𝑚∈R3,1 a generic
point of the point cloud in the camera frame 𝑐𝑎𝑚and with
𝑇𝑐𝑎𝑚∈R4,4 the homogeneous transformation matrix from frame
𝑐𝑎𝑚to frame 𝑠𝑏, Eq. (4) expresses 𝑃𝑐𝑎𝑚in the 𝑠𝑏frame as 𝑃𝑠𝑏.
[𝑃𝑠𝑏
𝑇, 1]
𝑇= 𝑇𝑐𝑎𝑚[𝑃𝑐𝑎𝑚
𝑇, 1]
𝑇
(4)
The homogeneous transformation matrix 𝑇𝑠𝑏from the sensor box
frame to the inertial frame can be obtained by Eq. (5) using the
pose estimated by the EIF
𝑇𝑠𝑏=
[
𝑟𝑜𝑡𝑚(̃𝐪𝑡|𝑡)̃
𝑝𝑇
𝑡|𝑡
[0, 0, 0]
1
]
(5)
where 𝑟𝑜𝑡𝑚(𝐪) ∈R3,3 returns the rotation matrix uniquely as-
signed to quaternion 𝐪. Finally, 3D points can be transformed
from the 𝑠𝑏to the 𝑤frame using Eq. (6)
[𝑃𝑤
𝑇, 1]
𝑇= 𝑇𝑠𝑏[𝑃𝑠𝑏
𝑇, 1]
𝑇
(6)
3. Map merging. Assembled point clouds gathered by the three
cameras and transformed in the world frame are then merged
together and downsampled (voxel grid size = 0.01 m).
5. Simulation environment
The possibility to simulate robots in outdoor environments un-
der different conditions is of paramount importance in agricultural
robotics. In this regard, the most famous simulator framework used by
the robotic community is Gazebo (Gazebo simulator, 2021). Gazebo is
an open-source simulator born in 2002 for robotics. After over 15 years
of development, Gazebo is undergoing a significant upgrade and mod-
ernization. Today, Gazebo is part of Ignition, which is a collection of
open-source software libraries designed by Open Robotics to simplify
the development of high-performance applications. Creating Gazebo
models means creating SDF (Simulation Description Format) files to
define SDF Model Objects. The primary element composing an SDF file
is the link. A link contains the physical properties of one body of the
model. Each link may have many collision and visual elements. Usually,
these two elements define the 3D mesh file describing the 3D surface
of the object. Gazebo requires that mesh files be formatted as STL,
Collada, or OBJ, with Collada and OBJ preferred formats.
In this work, the point cloud map, obtained as described Section 4,
is modeled using a meshing algorithm, which allows one to generate
a mesh-based representation for map import in the Gazebo simulation
environment, according to the following steps:
• Downsampling: to downsample the obtained dense map is a not
mandatory task that enables to speed up the mesh reconstruction
process and improves the outcome of the whole process. To
accomplish this task, the samples are generated according to a
Poisson-disk distribution (Corsini et al., 2012);
• Normals computation: the knowledge of the normals is neces-
sary to reconstruct the surface of the elements composing the
map. Normals are computed on the basis of the 10 closest points;
• Surface reconstruction: this step regards the reconstruction of
the surface starting from the set of points and normals. In this
case, the Ball Pivoting algorithm is used (Bernardini et al., 1999)
to compute a triangle mesh. It is based on the principle that three
points form a triangle if a ball of a user-specified radius touches
them without containing any other point;
• Texture mapping: the texture mapping is build by triangle-by-
triangle parametrization;
• Color transfer: this step concerns the process of projecting a
2D image to a 3D model’s surface for texture mapping, the so
called UV mapping. Once a UV map is available, the color can be
transferred to the reconstructed surface;
• Save the mesh: finally, the mesh is ready to be exported in a
suitable format.
Thus, thanks to the created mesh files, it is possible to develop a Gazebo
SDF model object describing the reconstructed vineyard row. As an
example, Fig. 5 showcases a mobile robot crossing a vineyard row
developed by following the procedure described above.
6. In-field testing
The multi-sensor system is mounted and integrated on a tracked
robot developed at the Politecnico of Bari, and it is tested in field condi-
tions, as shown in Fig. 6. Dedicated tests are performed in a commercial

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 202 (2022) 107419
7
F. Vulpi et al.
Fig. 6. Robotic platform used for in-field testing equipped with the multi-sensor box.
vineyard in San Donaci, Apulia region, Italy. Specifically, the robot is
guided to follow closed-loop trajectories around different crop rows
while gathering the sensor data. The data were then processed offline
to recover the 6DoF path and the 3D map of the environment.
In this section, first, the localization performance of the proposed
system is analyzed in terms of accuracy and repeatability. Then, the
mapping results are discussed.
6.1. Localization performance
Four closed-loop runs are considered, performed along two different
crop rows of about 120 m length, referred to as Test 1 to Test 4
in the following. They belong to two field campaigns carried out in
September and October 2021, respectively, during different times of the
day. Three localization sources are compared, namely RTK-GPS only,
T265 only and EIF. A projection in Google Earth view of the trajectories
reconstructed by EIF for the four paths is shown in Fig. 7. Numerical
results for all runs are collected in Table 1, showing the discrepancy
in the East-North-Up (𝑤) frame between the starting and ending points
of the trajectory, expressed in terms of 3D Euclidean distance (𝐷), 2D
Euclidean distance in the motion plane (𝐷𝐸𝑁) and altitude distance
(𝐷𝑈), and the standard deviation of altitude measurements (𝜎𝑈) along
the entire path.
Table 1
Comparison of different localization sources along four robot paths (Test 1 to 4):
discrepancy in the East-North-Up frame between the starting and ending points of
the trajectory expressed in terms of 3D Euclidean distance (𝐷), 2D Euclidean distance
in the motion plane (𝐷𝐸𝑁), altitude distance (𝐷𝑈), and standard deviation of altitude
measurements (𝜎𝑈) along the entire path.
Test
Source
𝐷[m]
𝐷𝐸𝑁[m]
𝐷𝑈[m]
𝜎𝑈[m]
RTK-GPS
1.501
1.511
0.026
0.451
1
T265
1.276
1.275
0.046
2.425
EIF
1.514
1.513
0.032
0.228
RTK-GPS
0.579
0.579
0.013
0.452
2
T265
5.909
4.921
3.270
2.199
EIF
0.579
0.579
0.011
0.209
RTK-GPS
1.852
1.517
1.063
0.370
3
T265
7.264
5.811
4.359
1.440
EIF
1.833
1.484
1.077
0.355
RTK-GPS
1.290
1.073
0.717
0.670
4
T265
5.341
4.760
2.424
1.497
EIF
0.739
0.356
0.647
0.428
The robot path as estimated by each localization source is reported
in Fig. 8 for Test 1. In this test, pose estimates using only RTK-GPS
(Fig. 8(a)) are consistent as long as RTK correction is available. The
starting and ending points are close to each other and the altitude
estimate is stable except when the connection to the base GPS is lost
and the RTK correction is missing (red diamonds in Fig. 8(a)). Fig. 8(b)
shows the path as reconstructed by the T265 proprietary visual-inertial
SLAM algorithm in its own frame and successively transformed in the
world frame.
Compared to RTK-GPS path, the distance between starting and end-
ing points estimated by the T265 camera is 15.6% smaller in terms of
East-North coordinates (𝐷𝐸𝑁) but 77% larger in terms of altitude (𝐷𝑈).
Low accuracy of vertical displacement estimates leads to large standard
deviation of altitude measurements (𝜎𝑈), which for T265 is of 2.43 m,
about 5 times larger than the one obtained by RTK-GPS. Fig. 8(c) shows
the path reconstructed by the EIF. The EIF uses linear acceleration and
angular velocity measures to make state predictions using the model
described by Eqs. (3), and corrects its predictions using measures of
RTK-GPS (world position and velocity), IMU (world orientation) and
T265 (relative position and orientation). The EIF estimates a difference
between starting and ending points 0.18% larger than the RTK-GPS
in terms of East-North position and 23% larger in terms of vertical
displacement. However, the standard deviation of altitude measures is
0.22 m for the EIF, i.e., 49% smaller than the one provided by RTK-GPS,
suggesting an overall improvement in position estimate when fusing
measurements with the EIF. This improvement is due to the fact that the
RTK corrections are not available when connection is lost with the base
GPS, whereas the EIF adjusts the position estimates for these instants
using predictions with IMU data and short-term measures of the T265
camera when the covariance of position and velocity provided by the
GPS grows.
When considering a second run along the same row (Test 2), similar
results are obtained (see Fig. 9 and the corresponding row in Table 1)
in terms of 𝜎𝑈which attests to 0.45 m for RTK-GPS, 2.20 m for T265
camera and 0.21 m for EIF. The discrepancy between starting and
ending points (𝐷) for T265 is higher than the one obtained from RTK-
GPS indicating that visual inertial odometry should be only used for
short-term displacement estimation. Again, the use of EIF allows for a
reduction of 𝜎𝑈of 53% with respect to GPS and of 90% with respect
to T265, while preserving loop closure accuracy.
The localization results for a path along a different crop row (Test 3)
is reported in Fig. 10. In this case, the T265 results in a substantially
degraded estimation, and EIF mainly relies on GPS leading to 𝜎𝑈of
0.35 m. On the contrary, Fig. 11 refers to an example where the quality
of GPS signal is poor in several parts of the trajectory (Test 4). Again,
EIF is able to compensate for the GPS outages mainly relying on T265
information showing better performance for all the metrics.

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 202 (2022) 107419
8
F. Vulpi et al.
Fig. 7. Google Earth view of the four paths estimated by EIF in a commercial vineyard, San Donaci, Apulia Region, Italy (40◦27′16.2′′N 17◦54′30.6′′E).
Fig. 8. Localization results for Test 1: (a) from RTK-GPS only; (b) from T265 camera only; (c) after EIF fusion of RTK-GPS, IMU and T265 measurements. In (a), red diamonds
are overlaid in two different zones without RTK coverage due to connection loss.
6.2. Mapping
For each geo-referenced position, the corresponding multi-view data
can be recovered. As an example, Fig. 12 shows the robot path (Test
1) overlaid over Google Earth view with three pinpointed positions,
whereas the corresponding multi-view output is displayed in Fig. 13.
Point clouds are collected and assembled in the 𝑤frame using
estimates of both absolute position and orientation of the sensor box. In
Fig. 14, the EIF observer output is used to merge point clouds collected
by the frontal camera. Fig. 15(a) shows, instead, about 20 m of merged
point clouds from all cameras using 6DoF odometry provided by the
EIF. This map can be processed to extract high-level information about
the crop, such as vegetation indexes and morphological information.
As an example, Figs. 15(b) and (c) show the map of Fig. 15(a) aug-
mented with Green–Red Vegetation Index (GRVI) and crop elevation
information, respectively.

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 202 (2022) 107419
9
F. Vulpi et al.
Fig. 9. Localization results for a second run along the same path of Fig. 8 (Test 2) from RTK-GPS only (solid grey line), T265 only (dashed black line) and EIF (solid black line).
Start and stop positions for EIF trajectory are denoted by green and red dot, respectively.
Fig. 10. Localization results for Test 3 from RTK-GPS only (solid grey line), T265 only (dashed black line) and EIF (solid black line). Start and stop positions for EIF trajectory
are denoted by green and red dot, respectively. In this test, the T265 estimate is substantially degraded and the EIF mainly relies on GPS.
Fig. 11. Localization results for Test 4 from RTK-GPS only (solid grey line), T265 only (dashed black line) and EIF (solid black line). Start and stop positions for EIF trajectory
are denoted by green and red dot, respectively. In this test, EIF is able to compensate poor GPS signal quality based on T265 information.
Fig. 12. EIF-derived path overlaid on Google Earth view for Test 1. Three successive positions of the robot are pinpointed. For these positions, the corresponding visual data are
shown in Fig. 13.

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 202 (2022) 107419
10
F. Vulpi et al.
Fig. 13. Output of the multi-view camera system for three robot locations along the path (Test 1): (first row) color images, (second row) depth images obtained from IR stereo
reconstruction and (third row) multi-view 3D point cloud.
Fig. 14. Mapping results (Test 1): upper view of the terrain map reconstructed by the central camera. The robot trajectory estimated by the sensor fusion approach is also overlaid.
Accurate localization information is essential to assemble subse-
quent point clouds acquired by the D435 cameras and build the envi-
ronment map. This can be clearly seen in Fig. 16, where two different
6DoF localization sources are compared. In detail, Fig. 16(a) shows a
group of point clouds badly assembled with synced data of GPS for
position and IMU for orientation when RTK correction are missing.
Fig. 16(b) is obtained using the EIF for the same time span, clearly
showing the improvement in point cloud assembling.
7. Conclusions
In this paper, the development, implementation and testing of a
multi-view RGB-D sensing device is presented. The system is intended
to be mounted on an agricultural ground robot for in-field proximal
monitoring of high-value crops. A multi-view mapping approach to
combine information from multiple visual and localization sensors and
produce a high-resolution 3D reconstruction of agricultural environ-
ments is described. It is based on an EIF algorithm to fuse information
from RTK-GPS, IMU and visual-inertial SLAM to obtain an accurate
estimation of the vehicle position in the field. Then, on the basis of
localization data, subsequent point clouds reconstructed by the RGB-D
sensors during robot motion can be assembled to generate a high-
resolution map of the surveyed environment. Results of dedicated
tests performed in a commercial vineyard are presented, showing the
effectiveness of the proposed system for in-field data gathering in an
automatic and non-invasive way.
Future work will include the processing of the maps using su-
pervised or unsupervised classification methods to generate semantic
representations of the environment, which can be used to improve
vehicle autonomy and safety. Research will focus on the integration
of output maps into Farm Management Information Systems (FMIS) to
enable map-based control of agricultural applications and machinery.
In this respect, future efforts will be devoted to address the real-
time challenge by using the multi-view maps for online navigation of
autonomous agricultural vehicles. Furthermore, methods for identifica-
tion and mapping of anomalies, such as weeds, as well as the extraction
of geometric measurements, such as plant volume/height estimates,
will be integrated to enable precision farming practices. This would also
improve the cost-benefit ratio of the sensor suite.
CRediT authorship contribution statement
Fabio Vulpi: Conceptualization, Methodology, Software, Valida-
tion, Writing – original draft. Roberto Marani: Software, Writing
– original draft. Antonio Petitti: Software, Writing – original draft.
Giulio Reina: Conceptualization, Methodology, Software, Validation,
Writing – original draft, Writing – review & editing, Supervision. An-
nalisa Milella: Conceptualization, Methodology, Software, Validation,
Writing – original draft, Writing – review & editing, Supervision.
Declaration of competing interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing finan-
cial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to
influence the work reported in this paper.
Data availability
Data will be made available on request.
Acknowledgments
This work was funded by the following research programs: Eu-
ropean Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme
under grant agreement ‘‘ATLAS - Agricultural Interoperability and
Analysis System’’ (No. 857125); ERA-NET ICT-AGRI-FOOD COFUND
‘‘ANTONIO-multimodal sensing for individual plANT phenOtyping in
agriculture robotics’’ (No. 41946); ‘‘E-crops - Technologies for Digital
and Sustainable Agriculture’’ funded by the Italian Ministry of Uni-
versity and Research (MUR) under the PON Agrifood Program (No.
ARS01_01136); CNR DIITET project ‘‘DIT.AD022.180 Transizione in-
dustriale e resilienza delle Società post-Covid19 (FOE 2020)’’, sub task

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 202 (2022) 107419
11
F. Vulpi et al.
Fig. 15. Closeup of the multi-view map for Test 1 (first 20 m): (a) RGB, (b) GRVI and (c) elevation map. In (b), green points refer to vegetation, whereas blue points correspond
to non-vegetated parts. Lighter green denotes higher GRVI values. In (c), a jet colormap is used to represent point height with respect to ground.
activity ‘‘Agro-Sensing’’. The authors are grateful to Cantina San Donaci
agricultural farm for hosting experimental tests. The administrative
and technical support by Michele Attolico and Giuseppe Bono is also
gratefully acknowledged. Disclaimer: The sole responsibility for the
content of this publication lies with the authors. It does not necessarily
represent the opinion of the European Union. Neither the EASME nor
the European Commission is responsible for any use that may be made
of the information contained therein.
Appendix
Quaternion representations are convenient for composition of rota-
tions
and
coordinate
transformations.
The
unit
quaternion
𝐪= [𝑞𝑥, 𝑞𝑦, 𝑞𝑧, 𝑞𝑤], is uniquely mapped to a rotation matrix R and de-
scribes the transformation between two reference frames as a rotation
of a certain angle 𝜃around the direction vector⃗𝑛following Eq. (A.1).
𝐪= [𝑛𝑥𝑠𝑖𝑛𝜃
2 , 𝑛𝑦𝑠𝑖𝑛𝜃
2 , 𝑛𝑧𝑠𝑖𝑛𝜃
2 , 𝑐𝑜𝑠𝜃
2 ]
(A.1)
Denoting with 𝑠1 and⃗𝑣1 respectively the scalar and vector part of
quaternion 𝐪1 = [⃗𝑣1, 𝑠1] = [𝑣1𝑥, 𝑣1𝑦, 𝑣1𝑧, 𝑠1], and with 𝑠2,⃗𝑣2 the scalar
and vector part of quaternion 𝐪2, the operation of quaternion product
can be expressed as
𝐪2𝐪1 = [𝑠2⃗𝑣1 + 𝑠1⃗𝑣2 +⃗𝑣2 ×⃗𝑣1, 𝑠2𝑠1 −⃗𝑣2 ⋅⃗𝑣1]
(A.2)
where quaternion product symbol has been omitted for readability,
whereas⃗𝑣2 ⋅⃗𝑣1 denotes dot product between vectors⃗𝑣1 and⃗𝑣2 and
finally⃗𝑣2 ×⃗𝑣1 denotes cross product between the two vectors. Quater-
nion product is a non-commutative operation and returns a quaternion
that represents the orientation obtained after the sequence of trans-
formations 𝐪1 and then 𝐪2. The norm of a quaternion 𝐪is denoted
as ‖𝐪‖2 = 𝑞2
𝑥+ 𝑞2
𝑦+ 𝑞2
𝑧+ 𝑞2
𝑤. The conjugate of quaternion 𝐪= [⃗𝑣, 𝑠]
is represented as 𝐪∗= [−⃗𝑣, 𝑠], while its inverse 𝐪−1 =
𝐪∗
√
‖𝐪‖2 . For a
unit quaternion we have ‖𝐪‖2 = 1 so its conjugate coincides with its
inverse. All quaternions describing orientation in 3-D space are unit
quaternions. The normalized quaternion denoted as ‖𝐪‖ =
𝐪
√
‖𝐪‖2 has

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 202 (2022) 107419
12
F. Vulpi et al.
Fig. 16. Mapping results (Test 1): closeup of loop closure before (a) and after (b) EIF correction.
a unit norm and each of its components are divided by
√
‖𝐪‖2. Let us
denote with 𝐪𝐵−𝐴the quaternion describing orientation of frame 𝐴with
respect to frame 𝐵written in frame 𝐵, its inverse is 𝐪−1
𝐵−𝐴= 𝐪𝐴−𝐵. Then,
composition of rotations can be obtained in a convenient form as
𝐪𝐶−𝐴= 𝐪𝐶−𝐵𝐪𝐵−𝐴
(A.3)
Consider the position vector⃗𝑝𝐴in frame 𝐴, then its projection in
reference frame 𝐵can be obtained as
[⃗𝑝𝐵, 0] = 𝐪𝐵−𝐴[⃗𝑝𝐴, 0]𝐪𝐴−𝐵
(A.4)
Finally, denoting with⃗𝜔𝐵(𝑡) the angular velocity of moving frame 𝐵in
its reference frame 𝐴, the derivative of the quaternion 𝐪𝐴−𝐵(𝑡) expressed
in the inertial frame 𝐴can be computed as
𝑑𝐪𝐴−𝐵(𝑡)
𝑑𝑡
= 1
2𝐪𝐴−𝐵(𝑡)[⃗𝜔𝐵(𝑡), 0]
(A.5)
References
Bernardini, F., Mittleman, J., Rushmeier, H., Silva, C., Taubin, G., 1999. The ball-
pivoting algorithm for surface reconstruction. IEEE Trans. Vis. Comput. Graphics 5
(4), 349–359. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/2945.817351.
Chéné, Y., Rousseau, D., Lucidarme, P., Bertheloot, J., Caffier, V., Morel, P., Belin, É.,
Chapeau-Blondeau, F., 2012. On the use of depth camera for 3D phenotyping of
entire plants. Comput. Electron. Agric. 82, 122–127.
Choset, H., Lynch, K., Hutchinson, S., Kantor, G., Burgard, W., Kavraki, L., Thrun, S.,
2004. Principles of Robot Motion. The MIT Press, Cambridge, MA, USA.
Comba, L., Biglia, A., Ricauda Aimonino, D., Gay, P., 2018. Unsupervised detection
of vineyards by 3D point-cloud UAV photogrammetry for precision agriculture.
Comput. Electron. Agric. 155, 84–95.
Condotta, I.C., Brown-Brandl, T.M., Pitla, S.K., Stinn, J.P., Silva-Miranda, K.O., 2020.
Evaluation of low-cost depth cameras for agricultural applications. Comput.
Electron. Agric. 173, 105394.
Corsini, M., Cignoni, P., Scopigno, R., 2012. Efficient and flexible sampling with blue
noise properties of triangular meshes. IEEE Trans. Vis. Comput. Graphics 18 (6),
914–924. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TVCG.2012.34.
Devanna, R.P., Milella, A., Marani, R., Garofalo, S.P., Vivaldi, G.A., Pascuzzi, S.,
Galati, R., Reina, G., 2022. In-field automatic identification of pomegranates using
a farmer robot. Sensors 22 (15).
2021. Gazebo simulator. http://gazebosim.org/, Accessed: 2021-12-06.
Gongal, A., Amatya, S., Karkee, M., Zhang, Q., Lewis, K., 2015. Sensors and systems
for fruit detection and localization: A review. Comput. Electron. Agric. 116, 8–19.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2015.05.021.
Habibie, N., Nugraha, A.M., Anshori, A.Z., Ma’sum, M.A., Jatmiko, W., 2017. Fruit
mapping mobile robot on simulated agricultural area in Gazebo simulator using
simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). In: 2017 International Symposium
on Micro-NanoMechatronics and Human Science (MHS). pp. 1–7. http://dx.doi.org/
10.1109/MHS.2017.8305235.
Hage, J.A., Mafrica, S., Najjar, M.E.B.E., Ruffier, F., 2019. Informational framework for
minimalistic visual odometry on outdoor robot. IEEE Trans. Instrum. Meas. 68 (8),
2988–2995.
Imperoli, M., Potena, C., Nardi, D., Grisetti, G., Pretto, A., 2018. An effective multi-
cue positioning system for agricultural robotics. IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett. 3 (4),
3685–3692. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/LRA.2018.2855052.
Jiang, P., Chen, Y., Liu, B., He, D., Liang, C., 2019. Real-time detection of apple leaf
diseases using deep learning approach based on improved convolutional neural
networks. IEEE Access 7, 59069–59080. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2019.
2914929.
Li, Z., Guo, R., Li, M., Chen, Y., Li, G., 2020. A review of computer vision technologies
for plant phenotyping. Comput. Electron. Agric. 176, 105672. http://dx.doi.org/
10.1016/j.compag.2020.105672.
Ma, J., Du, K., Zhang, L., Zheng, F., Chu, J., yu Sun, Z., 2017. A segmentation method
for greenhouse vegetable foliar disease spots images using color information and
region growing. Comput. Electron. Agric. 142, 110–117.
Mack, J., Lenz, C., Teutrine, J., Steinhage, V., 2017. High-precision 3D detection and
reconstruction of grapes from laser range data for efficient phenotyping based on
supervised learning. Comput. Electron. Agric. 135, 300–311.
Matese, A., Toscano, P., Di Gennaro, S.F., Genesio, L., Vaccari, F.P., Primicerio, J.,
Belli, C., Zaldei, A., Bianconi, R., Gioli, B., 2015. Intercomparison of UAV, aircraft
and satellite remote sensing platforms for precision viticulture. Remote Sens. 7 (3),
2971–2990.
Milella, A., Marani, R., Petitti, A., Reina, G., 2019a. In-field high throughput grapevine
phenotyping with a consumer-grade depth camera. Comput. Electron. Agric. 156,
293–306.
Milella, A., Reina, G., 2014. 3D reconstruction and classification of natural environ-
ments by an autonomous vehicle using multi-baseline stereo. Intel. Serv. Robot. 7,
79–92.
Milella, A., Reina, G., Nielsen, M., 2019b. A multi-sensor robotic platform for ground
mapping and estimation beyond the visible spectrum. Precis. Agric. 20.
Petitti, A., Vulpi, F., Marani, R., Milella, A., 2021. A self-calibration approach for
multi-view RGB-D sensing. In: Stella, E. (Ed.), Multimodal Sensing and Artificial In-
telligence: Technologies and Applications II, Vol. 11785. SPIE, International Society
for Optics and Photonics, pp. 50–55. http://dx.doi.org/10.1117/12.2595165.
Reina, G., Leanza, A., Mantriota, G., 2021. Model-based observers for vehicle dynamics
and tyre force prediction. Veh. Syst. Dyn. 1–26.
Reina, G., Milella, A., Rouveure, R., Nielsen, M., Worst, R., Blas, M.R., 2016. Ambient
awareness for agricultural robotic vehicles. Biosyst. Eng. 146, 114–132. http://dx.
doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2015.12.010, Special Issue: Advances in Robotic
Agriculture for Crops.
Ullah, I., Su, X., Zhu, J., Zhang, X., Choi, D., Hou, Z., 2020. Evaluation of localization
by extended Kalman filter, unscented Kalman filter, and particle filter-based
techniques. Wirel. Commun. Mob. Comput. 2020, 1–15.
Xu, W., Cai, Y., He, D., Lin, J., Zhang, F., 2022. FAST-LIO2: Fast direct LiDAR-inertial
odometry. IEEE Trans. Robot..
