Citation: Wang, C.; Pan, W.; Zou, T.;
Li, C.; Han, Q.; Wang, H.; Yang, J.;
Zou, X. A Review of Perception
Technologies for Berry Fruit-Picking
Robots: Advantages, Disadvantages,
Challenges, and Prospects. Agriculture
2024, 14, 1346. https://doi.org/
10.3390/agriculture14081346
Academic Editor: Antonio Valente
Received: 6 July 2024
Revised: 3 August 2024
Accepted: 9 August 2024
Published: 12 August 2024
Copyright: © 2024 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed
under
the
terms
and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
agriculture
Review
A Review of Perception Technologies for Berry Fruit-Picking
Robots: Advantages, Disadvantages, Challenges, and Prospects
Chenglin Wang 1, Weiyu Pan 1, Tianlong Zou 2,*, Chunjiang Li 1, Qiyu Han 1, Haoming Wang 1, Jing Yang 1
and Xiangjun Zou 2,3
1
Faculty of Modern Agricultural Engineering, Kunming University of Science and Technology,
Kunming 650504, China
2
Foshan-Zhongke Innovation Research Institute of Intelligent Agriculture and Robotics,
Guangzhou 528251, China
3
College of Intelligent Manufacturing and Modern Industry, Xinjiang University, Urumqi 830046, China
*
Correspondence: tlzou0871@hotmail.com
Abstract: Berries are nutritious and valuable, but their thin skin, soft flesh, and fragility make
harvesting and picking challenging. Manual and traditional mechanical harvesting methods are
commonly used, but they are costly in labor and can damage the fruit. To overcome these challenges,
it may be worth exploring alternative harvesting methods. Using berry fruit-picking robots with
perception technology is a viable option to improve the efficiency of berry harvesting. This review
presents an overview of the mechanisms of berry fruit-picking robots, encompassing their underlying
principles, the mechanics of picking and grasping, and an examination of their structural design.
The importance of perception technology during the picking process is highlighted. Then, several
perception techniques commonly used by berry fruit-picking robots are described, including visual
perception, tactile perception, distance measurement, and switching sensors. The methods of these
four perceptual techniques used by berry-picking robots are described, and their advantages and
disadvantages are analyzed. In addition, the technical characteristics of perception technologies in
practical applications are analyzed and summarized, and several advanced applications of berry fruit-
picking robots are presented. Finally, the challenges that perception technologies need to overcome
and the prospects for overcoming these challenges are discussed.
Keywords: berry fruit; picking robots; perception technology; end-effector; sensors
1. Introduction
With the development of the world economy and the change in people’s consumption
concept, people have high requirements for the quality and nutritional composition of
fruits. Berry fruits are rich in flavonoids, anthocyanins, resveratrol, etc. These substances
make the berry fruits have high medicinal and nutritional value, which can improve blood
circulation, prevent cardiovascular and cerebral vascular diseases, delay aging, prevent
cancer, promote the function of the immune system, regulate the function of the endocrine
system, promote tissue regeneration, are an anti-infective, and can protect the eyesight, and
so on [1–3].
Berry means a fruit whose flesh is mostly berry-like when ripe and whose flesh has a
high-water content. At the same time, the berry fruit is relatively soft and weak; the exocarp
is a thin layer of the epidermis, while the flesh is soft and juicy, such as raspberries, grapes,
blueberries, prickly pear, currants, kiwifruits, strawberries, etc. [4]. Therefore, due to the
softer and more fragile berry fruit, manual picking may result in too much force in picking
berry fruits, leading to berry rupture, which poses great difficulty for berry fruit picking.
Due to the high cost of repetitive and single manual work of picking berry fruits, which
makes berry fruits expensive, to replace manual picking, nowadays people use traditional
machinery to pick; most traditional machines used for harvesting berry fruits use both
Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346. https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture14081346
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/agriculture

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
2 of 42
direct and vibratory harvesting to harvest the berries. As shown in Figure 1a, Guojun Du
et al. harvested strawberries using a homemade double-crank mechanism-driven picking
claw device. The device consists of a picking mechanism, a longitudinal transfer collection
device, and a transmission mechanism, which is driven by a motor to drive the longitudinal
transfer collection device and the picking mechanism at the same time, wherein a picking
claw drives the picking mechanism to complete the process of strawberry picking by using
the expansion and contraction characteristics of the double crank mechanism [5]. This
traditional harvesting mechanism significantly improves picking efficiency compared to
manual picking of berry fruit; the single reciprocating motion driven by a motor can lead
to pulp damage, fruit drop, etc. As shown in Figure 1b, Panpan Yuan et al. designed a
crankshaft-type vibratory threshing and harvesting device for wine grapes, which consists
of 3. crankshaft, 1. an elastic gripping vibration mechanism, 2. a transmission system, 4.
motor, 5. pitch adjustment lever, and 6. frequency converter. They use parallel left and right
monoblocs to achieve in-phase, isotropic, and synchronous motion to achieve harvesting
of wine grapes and also use similar elastic clamping vibration mechanisms and left and
suitable monoblocs for the same purpose [6]. However, due to the amplitude, the fruit
branches are broken at the end, and the excitation force cannot be accurately controlled, so
it is impossible to perform precise picking.
Figure 1. Traditional harvesting device of berry fruits: (a) The artificial-assisted single-drive device for
picking multi-fruit strawberries from Ref. [5]. (b) The crankshaft vibration threshing and harvesting
equipment for wine grapes from Ref. [6].
Even though traditional machinery has reduced harvesting costs and accelerated
harvesting efficiency, there are still problems of fruit damage, leakage, and mis-harvesting.
To avoid the shortcomings of conventional mechanical harvesting and picking of berry
fruits, manipulators instead of traditional fruit harvesting and picking machinery are
necessary. The manipulator can imitate the human hand to pick berry fruits and achieve
damage-free and precise picking. The end-effector is an essential part of the robotic
manipulator. The end-effector is installed in the equipment for gripping, handling, and
placing the workpiece manipulator end tool, end-effector through the electric, pneumatic,
or other forms of power to drive the fingers of the opening and closing to achieve the
workpiece grasping and releasing, to complete the workpiece grasping tasks [7].
However, the design and application of robotic manipulators and end-effectors for
berry fruit picking face many challenges. Tasks that appear simple to humans, such as
selecting and placing objects with widely varying shapes, sizes, materials, and surface prop-
erties, can be challenging for robots [8]. Moreover, because the agricultural environment
is less structured, it is more difficult to employ robots to automate different agricultural
processes [9]. While humans can usually pick crops by coordinating their various body
parts to achieve precise and efficient picking without damage, robots can still not mimic the
movements of human beings [10]. Moreover, because of the variability in fruits in terms
of shape, size, weight, etc., the requirements for end-effector adaptation to the variability
of fruits are very high [11], leading to the limitations of the existing end-effector, which

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
3 of 42
cannot be used in a variety of fruits with different attributes to be picked, and this is also
true for berry fruits. Since berries are soft, designing an end-effector specifically for picking
berry fruits is necessary.
To make the operation of the end-effector more accurate, the application of percep-
tion technology is essential, so it is necessary to use sensors to obtain various types of
information and accurately complete the operation requirements [12]. For the small size,
soft texture, thin skin, and other characteristics of berry fruits, and to achieve accurate
and efficient picking operations like human beings, it is even more necessary to use a
variety of sensors on the end-effector and robotic manipulator to meet the requirements of
picking [13].
The gripping requirements for agricultural products are higher than those for work-
pieces whose objects are metals, ceramics, plastics, and other materials in the industry. A
variety of visual sensors, tactile sensors, force sensors, and bending sensors are mounted
on the end-effector to make the gripping effect more reliable, flexible, and controllable [14].
Various perception technologies must be integrated to achieve the gripping needs by con-
sidering the characteristics of berry fruits and distinguishing them from other agricultural
products. A list of visual perception systems applications in berry fruit picking is shown
below in Figure 2a. Yucheng Jin et al. designed a vision sensor-based end-effector of a
grape-picking robot, which achieves accurate positioning of the picking point through a
vision perception system, and the gripper finger of the end-effector grips the stalks on top
of the bunches of grapes to achieve the grape picking [15]. As shown in Figure 2b, Ma
Li et al. devised a robotic system for harvesting kiwifruit. The system employs RGB-D
sensors to identify and retrieve kiwifruit after accurately positioning them [16]. As shown
in Figure 2c, Parsa S et al. designed an autonomous strawberry-picking robot equipped
with four visual sensors on the end-effector and a finger gripping the stem above the grape
bunch for picking. The robot also features a top RGB-D sensor and three RGB sensors at the
bottom. The top RGB-D sensor captures the strawberry plant’s RGB image and 3D point
cloud from a distance, while the bottom RGB sensors provide a close-up view [17].
Figure 2. Application of perception technology in berry fruit picking: (a) The vision system-based
end-effector for grape picking robots from Ref. [15]. (b) The kiwifruit harvesting robot is based on
deep learning from Ref. [16]. (c) A modular autonomous strawberry-picking robot and its end-effector
from Ref. [17].

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
4 of 42
Until now, the fruit-picking robot has had more applications for visual perception.
However, for berry fruit picking, due to the characteristics of berry fruits, visual perception
alone is not enough; it also needs to be paired with a variety of perceptual technologies
such as tactile perception, distance measurement, switch sensors, and other perceptual
technologies in the end-effector on the collaborative picking, i.e., multi-modal sensors
deployed perceptual system. The wide deployment of multimodal sensors generates a
large amount of data characterized by high capacity, wide diversity, and high integrity in
various fields [18]. The integration of diverse sensor modalities and knowledge represents a
pivotal aspect of precision agriculture in the forthcoming era [19]. A good end-effector that
is reliable and tries to limit the redundant movements of the robotic manipulator in motion
requires kinematic calculations and the use of sensors and other data needed for fruit
picking, which can be used to localize the end-effector accurately and can enable the end-
effector and the manipulator to avoid collisions with other objects during operation [20,21].
From the above examples, it is evident that perception technology plays a vital role in
the application of berry fruit-picking robots, which is mainly realized by relying on sensors.
Perception technology has become possible in almost all areas of life due to technological
advances and size reduction, and perception measures physical properties and converts
them into signals for the observer [22]. Combining perception, modeling, inference, and
actuation can achieve better performance, improving the robot’s movement and aware-
ness [23]. Sensors play a crucial role in agricultural robots by providing environment
perception and localization information to enable autonomous navigation, crop detection,
and map building [24].
The methodology employed for the retrieval of articles for this review involved utiliz-
ing a range of academic search platforms to identify the recent applications of perception
technologies in berry fruit-picking robots over the past five years. Databases such as Web
of Science, Google Scholar, Wiley Online Library, IEEE Xplore, and ScienceDirect were
consulted. The search terms included “berry fruit picking robot”, “perception technology”,
“sensors”, “deep learning”, and “precision agriculture”, as well as synonyms and near-
synonyms, such as “picking robots”, “harvesting robots”, and “harvester”. An initial search
on the Web of Science yielded approximately 500 articles related to fruit-picking robots
within the specified timeframe. After excluding studies focused on non-berry fruits, over
200 articles remained. Subsequent evaluations emphasized the relevance of these articles
to perception technologies and sensors, leading to data collection on various parameters,
including perception technology type, mechanical structure, sensors, performance, control
strategy, and cost. Ultimately, approximately 200 articles were excluded as they did not
meet the criteria for further investigation in the literature review.
Therefore, this review elucidated the principles, picking and gripping mechanisms,
and structures of berry fruit-picking robots. Building on this foundation, it examined the
methods of perception technologies utilized in berry fruit-picking robots, analyzed and sum-
marized the advantages and disadvantages of each technology, and discussed their techni-
cal characteristics. Finally, it addressed the challenges and opportunities berry fruit-picking
robots encountered in the berry-picking process through applied perception technologies.
2. Mechanism of Berry Fruit-Picking Robots
2.1. Principle
The picking steps and standardized process of the berry fruit-picking robot are shown
in Figure 3. The robot system, through the combination of various types of sensors com-
posed of a perception system, captures and obtains all kinds of characteristics of berry
fruit data and the data transmitted to the computer. The computer controls the robotic
manipulator and end-effector to achieve the picking of berry fruits, ensuring standard-
ization throughout the process. The steps involved in grasping can be summarized as
follows [25,26]:
•
Approaching the object: The end-effector is open, and the robot system positions the
end-effector close to the object.

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
5 of 42
•
Coming into contact: The end-effector is in contact with the gripping object.
•
Increasing gripping force: The end-effector outputs a certain amount of gripping force
to ensure the object is gripped.
•
Securing the object: When the gripping force meets the object, the gripping force
should be adjusted to stop increasing once it securely grips the object.
•
Lifting the object: The end-effector grips the object, moving it to the desired position,
combined with the robot system moving the object to the desired position.
•
Release the object: The end-effector releases its grip, separating from the gripped object.
•
Monitoring the grasp: the gripping process is monitored by sensors to judge the
end-effector’s contact with the gripped object and the effectiveness of the grip.
Figure 3. Picking steps and grasping standardized processes of berry-picking robots.
Due to the difficulty of gripping and harvesting berry fruits, there are still challenges
in reducing fruit loss and damage in practical berry fruit harvesting [27]. In the harvesting
of berry fruits using fruit-picking robots, end-effectors and berry picking are associated
with the process of fruit gripping and picking, either by gripping the berries directly using
the stalk and fruit or by separating the fruit from the plant by pulling, twisting the fruit, or
cutting the stalk [28].
2.2. Picking and Gripping
The berry fruit gripping methods can be broadly categorized into three types: gripping
the fruit stalk, adsorbing the fruit, and gripping the fruit. In clamping the fruit stalk, the
principle is to connect the stalk of the berry through the end-effector without directly con-
tacting the fruit itself. The end-effector uses suction-based methods, utilizing a suction head

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
6 of 42
to adsorb the fruits. This is an effective way to make up for the error of the visual sensor
and can reduce the positional error when gripping the fruits and cutting the stalks [29].
Direct clamping of the fruit is the most natural way. Berry fruits are very soft during such
operations because they are very smooth and delicate, so the chances of bruising during
the operation are higher. When subjected to compressive forces, the berry fruits suffer more
damage [30].
The methods of pulling and twisting fruit require direct contact with the fruit during
clamping. Kurpaska et al. designed a strawberry-harvesting robot based on pneumatic
suction cups to experimentally investigate adsorption force, stress, and fruit damage. The
effects of the structure, application position, and orientation of the suction cups on the
picking effect were investigated [31].
Cutting the stalks and vibratory harvesting are harvesting methods that do not require
direct contact with the fruit. For example, Xiong et al. designed a strawberry-harvesting
robot based on a cable-driven end effector. The end effector is mounted on an industrial
manipulator. The cable-driven gripper opens its finger to wrap around the strawberry fruit
body. When the finger is closed, the cutter, which consists of two curved blades, rotates
rapidly to cut the stalk. The cutter is hidden inside the finger to prevent damage to the
strawberry and surrounding strawberries [32].
2.3. Structures
From a kinematic perspective, it could be argued that the hardware structure of berry
fruit-picking robots is inextricably linked to three critical pieces of machinery: the mobile
platform, the manipulator, and the end-effector. Collectively, these elements form the
mobile unit, the operational unit, and the execution unit of the berry fruit-picking robots,
intending to facilitate a specific picking action.
2.3.1. Mobile Platform
Mobile platforms are essential in practical applications as mobile units of fruit-picking
robots. In recent years, there has been a notable surge in interest in deploying robotic
platforms in the agricultural sector, where their role in replacing humans in the cultivation
of expansive fields is of significant consequence [33].
The current robot mobile platforms utilized in agricultural applications can be classi-
fied into wheeled and tracked bases. This classification is illustrated in Figure 4. Wheeled
chassis can be subdivided into differential drive bases: Ackermann steering base, steer-by-
wire base, and Mecanum wheels base. The mobile platforms depicted in the figure are from
Yuhesen Technology, Ltd. (Shenzhen, China) and PAL Robotics, Ltd. (Barcelona, Spain),
two prominent companies that develop mobile platforms for robots. Further information
can be found on their official websites: https://yuhesen.com/en/index.aspx (accessed on
1 May 2024) and https://pal-robotics.com/robots (accessed on 1 May 2024).
The differential drive base is a mechanism that enables direction and movement con-
trol by regulating wheel speed on opposing sides. It is a prevalent configuration in robotic
systems, particularly in agricultural applications, where it offers a competitive advantage
due to its simplicity and reliable maneuvering stability, even in challenging and complex
environments [34]. However, differential drives are a conventional technology with limi-
tations such as restricted torque and a lack of recommended test protocols. Furthermore,
they present several technical challenges, including the necessity for steering performance
to be coupled to all wheel speeds [35,36].
Compared to a differential drive base, Ackermann steering improves the base’s per-
formance in steady turning and prolongs tire service life [37,38]. The Ackermann steering
linkage demonstrates optimal synthesis, reducing design parameters and providing helpful
information for engineers [39]. However, the traditional four-link mechanism has a limited
capacity to track points, restricting Ackermann’s steering geometry [40]. Special equipment
and techniques may be required to repair and adjust the Ackermann steering base in the
event of failure.

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
7 of 42
Figure 4. Classification of mobile platforms for berry fruit-picking robots. The mobile base is Yuhesen
Technology and PAL Robotics.
The steering-by-wheel base is the steering wheel’s deflection angle that determines
the direction of travel. This deflection results in a change to the trajectory in front, which
enables steering. The principle provides comparable steering performance to conventional
passenger cars without requiring dedicated steering devices. The innovative steer-by-
wire concept, which employs in-wheel motors and a differential steering principle, offers
steering performance comparable to that of traditional passenger cars, eliminating the
necessity for dedicated steering devices [41]. However, using rudder wheels results in a
higher cost, which increases the expense of steering-by-wheel bases.
A Mecanum wheel is a unique wheel that allows a base to move in any direction
without steering. Mecanum wheels facilitate omnidirectional mobility in vehicles by ar-
ranging rolls around the wheel axis, thereby elucidating their underlying geometry and
kinematics [42]. An omnidirectional robotic system equipped with Mecanum wheels can
navigate confined areas with reduced time and space requirements for maneuvers. Further-
more, the system’s motion conversion process is relatively computationally efficient [43].
However, the inappropriate selection of free rollers in a Mecanum wheel construction can
result in undesired vertical movement, which may lead to difficulties in positioning and
the necessity for stabilization [44].
The tracked mobile-based application is a more widely utilized technology in agricul-
tural robotics. It offers multidirectional mobility, traversing various terrains and conditions
while preventing tipping when carrying external payloads on inclined surfaces [45]. Never-
theless, the issue of adjusting the ground clearance and degree of vehicle chassis remains
unresolved [46].
Choosing the right mobile platform for robots that pick berry fruits is essential, consid-
ering the specific operating environment and conditions. Most modern agricultural robots
use batteries due to their high energy density and long operational endurance. Some are
also designed with solar panels to recharge their batteries, promoting eco-friendly opera-

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
8 of 42
tions. While some robots still use small internal combustion engines for mobile chassis, this
is becoming less common. The choice of power source generally depends on the robot’s
design requirements, operating environment, and cost factors.
2.3.2. Manipulator
As the operational unit of the berry-picking robots, the robotic manipulator plays
a crucial role in improving efficiency and accuracy. To mimic the skill of the human
manipulator when picking fruit, the manipulator needs sufficient reach and Degrees of
Freedom (DoF) to reach the object with the correct orientation [47]. However, the equations
of motion are always highly coupled and nonlinear when multiple DoFs are required to
satisfy the flexibility of a robotic manipulator, which is a great challenge to solve [48].
The kinematic analysis of a robotic manipulator can be classified into two distinct
categories: Forward Kinematics Problem (FKP) and Inverse Kinematics Problem (IKP). In
robotics, FKP is a method that utilizes the parameters of a robot’s joints, such as the angle,
position, and velocity, to determine the spatial position and attitude of the robot’s end-
effector. Conversely, IKP is a process of repositioning expressive motion onto a mechanical
system with feedback loops that enable precise control of the position and orientation of the
end-effector and center of mass [49]. FKP is straightforward, and IKP is computationally
expansive and challenging for real-time control [50]. In the present era, most IKPs, including
trajectory planning and pose estimation, are addressed through integrating deep learning
methodologies to enhance the operational efficacy of robotic systems [51–53].
Trajectory planning for manipulators is crucial for maximizing the mobility of the ma-
nipulator’s configuration path and optimizing time-minimum trajectories. Consequently,
trajectory planning and analysis are essential for ensuring the accuracy of manipulator
movements [54,55]. Pose control of a manipulator entails determining the appropriate
input torques for the joints to achieve specified positions, velocities, and accelerations.
Due to the nonlinear and highly coupled nature of manipulators, effective control presents
significant challenges [56]. Therefore, it is necessary to perform kinematic analysis to plan
the robot manipulator’s motion trajectory and pose control. This is necessary to achieve a
smooth and precise motion during the execution of the task.
Figure 5 illustrates the kinematic analysis of the manipulator of the berry fruit-picking
robot. FKP and IKP analysis determine the robotic manipulator’s trajectory planning
and pose control. As a case study, the figure employs a 6 DoFs manipulator, a common
component in the design of fruit-picking robots.
The initial step was to conduct an FKP analysis. To obtain the morphological pa-
rameters of the manipulator, it is necessary to establish the D-H coordinate system us-
ing the Denavit–Hartenberg (D-H) method. This involves defining a reference coordi-
nate system designated as O0, and local coordinate systems for each joint, designated
as Oi, (i = 1, 2 . . . 6). The end-effector coordinate system is Oh. Subsequently, the D-H
parameters of the robotic manipulator are obtained, comprising θ, α, d, and a, where θ
represents the joint angle, α represents the twist angle, d represents the offset of linkages, a
represents the length of linkages.
Calculating the transformation matrix between two neighboring links can be calculated
by obtaining the D-H parameters of the manipulator in Equation (1).
Ti =


cosθi
−sinθicosαi
sinθisinαi
aicosθi
sinθi
cosθicosαi
−cosθisinαi
aisinθi
0
sinαi
cosαi
di
0
0
0
1


(1)
where Ti represents the transformation matrix for each linkage.

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
9 of 42
Figure 5. Process of analyzing the kinematics of the manipulator of a berry fruit-picking robot.
Then, the transformation matrices of all joints are multiplied to obtain the total trans-
formation matrix T. The spatial parameters are derived from the transformation ma-
trix, thereby facilitating the acquisition of spatial information about the movement of the
robotic manipulator.
Subsequently, an IKP analysis is conducted. By employing deep learning, spatial data
associated with manipulator movements is fed into a trained neural network model. This
model then predicts the joint angles, which are subsequently mapped to their corresponding
joint configurations based on the object position. This process facilitates pose control and
trajectory planning.
In addition to kinematic analysis, it is essential to understand the manipulator’s role
as the operational unit of the fruit-picking robot. To achieve this, the robotic manipulator
must be integrated with various perception technologies, including real-time measurement
of joint angles, dynamic obstacle avoidance in conjunction with visual perception, and
other capabilities. Visual perception plays a crucial role in controlling robotic arm motion,
as the accurate identification of target positions and the provision of necessary positional
parameters hinge on this perceptual process [57].
2.3.3. End-Effector
The actuating element for picking berry fruits is the end-effector. With the continuous
development of science and technology, there are many end-effectors for fruit picking.
The end-effector for berry-picking robots can be broadly classified, as shown in Figure 6.
The end-effector for berry-picking robots can be roughly classified according to the drive
mode, the number of fingers, the harvesting mode, and finger materials, which include
electric gripper, hydraulic gripper, pneumatic gripper, and hybrid gripper, according to the
form of drive, two-finger gripper, three-finger gripper, four-finger gripper, and bionic hand
gripper for classification, according to the number of fingers. The harvesting mode can be

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
10 of 42
divided into mechanical, flexible, vacuum, and parallel grippers. According to the division
of fingers, clamping materials can consist of metal, plastic, rubber, and other materials
for classification.
Figure 6. Classification of end-effector for berry fruit-picking robots.
Based on the above categorization, several end-effectors with specific characteristics
are enumerated, as shown in Figure 7. Dimeas F et al. proposed a three-finger end-effector
for strawberry picking, as shown in Figure 7a, where the end-effector is equipped with
force and pressure profile sensors using the fuzzy logic principle, which detects misplaced
strawberries on the grippers or uneven distribution of the force. The fingers grasp the
strawberries using a crank-slider mechanism driven by stepper motors [58]. As shown
in Figure 7b, Gunderman A et al. designed a soft robotic three-finger end-effector for
blackberry picking. The end-effector is covered with force sensors, and two parts of silicone
material are used to fabricate the soft fingers, where one part is used to provide softness
and another part to the design of the soft finger considers the variation in the size and
shape of the blackberry. The contact area with the surface of the blackberry can be increased
by changing the shape of the finger [59]. Zhang Y et al. designed a picking robot to
achieve automated strawberry picking in Monopoly. The end-effector of the picking robot
is shown in Figure 7c, and the end-effector is located at the end joints of the strawberry-
picking manipulator. The drive motor of the end-effector controls the movement of the cam
mechanism. It transmits the model through the reflective sensors to control the opening and
closing. It ends, ultimately realizing the picking work of strawberries in Monopoly [60]. As
shown in Figure 7d, Feng Q et al. designed a pneumatic end-effector for strawberry-picking
robots. Its end-effector is paired with a vision sensor to complete the end-effector consists
of a casing, a rotary cutter, a fixed cutter, a fixed finger, and an oscillating finger, where the
oscillating finger is mounted under the oscillating cutter and the fixed finger is mounted
under the fixed cutter. The oscillating cutter is driven by a cylinder to open and close
the gripper. When the gripper closes, the stalk is cut off from the plant, the fingers grasp
the stalk left on the fruit, and finally, the gripper opens to complete the picking [61]. As
shown in Figure 7e, Williams H et al. designed a kiwifruit-picking robot incorporating
visual sensors. The end-effector consists of an asymmetric four-bar mechanism driven by
a cylinder and a soft silicone structure consisting of a finger. The end-effector apparatus
rotates the kiwifruit around the stem and then pulls it downwards, ultimately picking it
from the canopy without damage and removing it from the fruit [62].

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
11 of 42
Figure 7. Part of the end-effector for berry fruit picking: (a) The fuzzy control of a robotic gripper
for efficient strawberry harvesting from Ref. [58]. (b) The tendon-driven soft robotic gripper for
blackberry harvesting from Ref. [59]. (c) The ridge planting strawberry picking manipulator from
Ref. [60]. (d) The harvesting robot for table-top cultivated strawberries and its end-effector from
Ref. [61]. Copyright 2019, IEEE. (e) A robotic kiwifruit harvester and its end-effector from Ref. [62].
From the mechanism of berry fruit-picking robots, it is easy to see that almost all have
used some perception technology to pick and harvest berry fruits. Different perception
techniques are required for all working units of berry fruit-picking robots to execute the
picking commands, which reinforces the crucial importance of sensors, as expressed in the
introduction of this review. Therefore, we have focused on applying different perception
techniques in berry fruit-picking robots.
3. An Overview of Perception Technologies for Berry Fruit-Picking Robots
Perception technology is dependent on sensors. Perception technology acquires and
processes environmental information using sensors, which are essential to perception
technology. Sensors can be classified into tactile and non-tactile sensors. Tactile sensors
require a force or moment acting directly on the measuring device, and non-tactile sensors
depend on the distance between the sensor and the monitored object. Non-tactile sensors
include visual sensors such as cameras. These sensors work with light as the measuring
medium. Other principles conclude resistance to change, ultrasonic, inductive, capacitive,
magnetic, and other effects. In automation systems, only the sensors on the end-effector
contact the tactile information of the workpiece and, therefore, need to be integrated [63].
•
Visual Perception
Visual perception allows robotic systems to acquire images through visual sensors,
which are converted into digital signals based on pixel distribution and information such
as brightness and color. The imaging system then extracts the characteristics of the object
and controls the field equipment based on the discriminatory results.
Fruit-picking robots detect and locate fruits using vision sensors, such as binocular
vision, laser vision, Kinect, multispectral or other vision sensors, and other methods. In
detecting crops and fruits, vision cameras and their control systems can be used as hardware

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
12 of 42
support for vision perception technology and as a communication interface between the
external environment and the robot. In recent years, extensive use of machine learning
and classical image processing techniques for various fruit detection applications has been
seen [64].
In computer vision, there are several fundamental visual recognition problems: image
classification, object detection, instance segmentation, and semantic segmentation. There-
fore, these four methods can recognize and detect berry fruits with vision sensors [65].
Image classification: this method only needs to assign category labels to images. Im-
age classification, as a classic research topic in recent years, is one of the core problems of
computer vision and is the basis of various fields of visual recognition; the primary process
of image classification includes image data preprocessing, feature extraction and represen-
tation, classifier design, etc. Object detection not only predicts the category labels but also
locates each object instance through the bounding box. Object detection aims to determine
whether an object instance from a given category exists in an image. Semantic segmentation
aims at predicting the category label of each pixel without distinguishing between object
instances, and semantic segmentation obtains fine-grained inference by predicting the label
of each image pixel, with each pixel labeled as a category based on the object or region it
contains. Instance segmentation is a particular setting of object detection that distinguishes
between different objects using a pixel-level segmentation mask to distinguish other object
instances. Instance segmentation provides various labels for different instances of objects
belonging to the same object class, so instance segmentation can be defined as finding
simultaneous solutions for object detection and semantic segmentation [65–68].
•
Tactile Perception
Tactile perception involves converting tactile signals into electrical signals using flexi-
ble electronic devices like tactile sensors. These sensors have significant potential appli-
cations in wearable electronic devices, health and motion monitoring, biomedicine, soft
robotics, human–computer interaction, and other intelligent systems. Tactile sensors are
perception elements that measure tactile-related properties of an object through physical
contact between the sensor and the object. A gripper with tactile perception can acquire
various force–tactile information, such as pressure, strain, position, curvature, stiffness,
hardness, roughness, temperature, shape, and size. Slip sense can also be detected, which
measures and detects an object’s motion relative to the sensor. Tactile perception is detect-
ing and measuring contact force at a specific point. The nature of tactile perception is, in a
sense, like the information obtained from binary systems, which detect the presence and
absence of tactile [69–72].
Due to variations in size, shape, and structure, natural products differ from one
another [73]; the challenges of applying tactile perception to berry fruit harvesting are
significant for achieving stable access and flexible, non-invasive operations. It is essential
to ensure that berry fruits are harvested and picked efficiently and effectively. Various
tactile sensors are available for berry picking, including piezoresistive pressure sensors,
capacitive pressure sensors, piezoelectric tactile sensors, and triboelectric tactile sensors.
Table 1 displays the performance of some of these sensors.
Tactile sensors’ performance is directly related to stability, response, range, sensitivity,
and detection limit parameters. Stability measures the strength of the sensor output
signal, indicating the degree of change in the sensor output under the same operating
conditions. High-stability sensors can provide more reliable and accurate measurement
results. Response measures the speed at which the sensor responds to changes in the input
signal. A sensor with a fast response speed can promptly capture environmental changes
and output the corresponding signal. Range measures the maximum and minimum values
the sensor can measure, and sensors with a wide range can be adapted to a broader range
of measurement needs. Sensitivity measures how sensitive a sensor is to changes in the
input signal. High-sensitivity sensors can detect minor changes in the signal, improving
measurement accuracy. Sensors with a lower detection limit can detect weaker signals,

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
13 of 42
improving measurement accuracy. The detection limit indicates the minimum signal
strength that the sensor can detect.
Table 1. Performance of tactile sensors.
Type of Tactile
Sensors
Materials
Detection
Limit
Sensitivity
Range
Response
Stability
Ref.
Piezoresistive
Patterned
graphene/PDMS
5 Pa
1.2 kPa−1
0~25 kPa
—
1000
[74]
3D graphene
1 Pa
0.152 kPa−1
0~27 kPa
96 ms
9000
[75]
Polyaniline/polyvinylidene
—
53 kPa−1
5.2~98.7 kPa
38 ms
50,000
[76]
Capacitive
Silver/PDMS
10 Pa
0.18 kPa−1
0~400 kPa
100 ms
10,000
[77]
Silicon/polystyrene
0.14 Pa
44.5 kPa−1
0~100 Pa
9 ms
5000
[78]
adhesive/graphene
1 mg
3.19 kPa−1
0~4 kPa
30 ms
500
[79]
Piezoelectric
PDMS/silver paste/pvdf
—
7.7 mVkPa−1
—
10 ms
80,000
[80]
Flexible GaN/ZnO NWs
—
—
—
180 ms
4000
[81]
ZnS:Mn particles
—
2.2 cps kPa−1
0.6~50 Mpa
10 ms
10,000
[82]
Triboelectric
PDMS/Ag nanofibers
—
—
—
70 ms
2800
[83]
PET/PDMS/Ag
electrodes
—
0.06 kPa−1
1 kPa
70 ms
10,000
[84]
Ecoflex and PVA/PEI
—
0.063 VkPa−1
5~50 kpa
—
2250
[85]
Piezoresistive tactile sensors have the advantages of high-frequency response, simple
signal processing, simple structure, and low cost, and their resistivity varies with external
pressure stimulation. Still, at the same time, piezoresistive perception suffers from a severe
hysteresis phenomenon, resulting in lower and unfortunate frequency response [86,87].
Capacitive tactile sensors have attracted much attention because of their simple structure,
good repeatability, low loss, temperature independence, large fabrication area, high sen-
sitivity to high voltage, and low sensitivity to temperature drift. However, capacitive
tactile sensors have problems such as a complicated calibration process, a relatively small
dynamic range, and sensitivity to environmental disturbances [88–90]. Piezoelectric tactile
sensors’ excellent high-frequency response can quickly generate a piezoelectric potential
in response to external mechanical stimuli, making them the best choice for vibration
measurement. Piezoelectric sensors are commonly used to measure dynamic stresses such
as acoustic vibration, slip detection, etc. However, piezoelectric sensors cannot measure
static deformation due to their high internal resistance and non-negligible temperature
sensitivity [71,87,91]. Triboelectric tactile sensors are mainly based on frictional initiation
and electrostatic induction effects to affect charge flow and have the advantages of high
instantaneous power and self-powering, etc. On the other hand, signal interference caused
by external electrostatic induction is a significant problem that needs to be solved in their
application [92,93].
•
Distance Measurement
Distance measurement is one of the essential parts of perception technology. Typically,
displacement sensors are widely used to measure the distance between the gripper and the
object so that the robot controller can update the object position according to the program;
they can also be used to measure the size of the gripped object so that the gripper can
evaluate and adjust the finger separation. In addition, these sensors can be used to measure
the state of the gripper, including gripping speed, acceleration, force/torque, angle, and
slip [14]. Distance measurement sensors that can be widely applied to berry-picking robots
include infrared, ultrasonic, and Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) sensors.
An infrared sensor usually consists of an infrared emitter and an infrared receiver. The
emitter emits infrared radiation, which the receiver detects and converts into an electrical
signal. When an object enters the perception range of the infrared sensor, it absorbs or
reflects the infrared radiation, causing the receiver to pick up different signals. The sensor
detects changes in these signals to determine information such as the object’s presence,

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
14 of 42
distance, or temperature. Infrared sensors are commonly used for measuring distance,
making them ideal for obstacle avoidance in robots due to their low cost and fast response
time [94]. Indoor infrared sensors perform better than outdoor infrared sensors. However,
this also depends on the type and color of the object being detected [95].
The concept behind ultrasonic sensors is straightforward: they emit sound waves
and receive them after interacting with the process being studied. The ultrasonic signal
carries information about the measured parameter and arrives at the receiving end [96].
Ultrasound refers to sound waves produced by an object’s vibration. These waves have a
frequency higher than 20 kHz, beyond the upper limit of human hearing. The perception
of ultrasound is widely used in various fields, including medicine, industry, and science.
Ultrasonic sensors convert electrical signals into ultrasound waves [97].
LiDAR technology accurately determines an object’s distance and velocity information
using light waves with shorter wavelengths than radio waves for more precise three-
dimensional perception [98]. LiDAR sensors emit laser pulses that reflect off object objects,
allowing the sensors to detect distance and velocity. The sensors record the reflected pulses.
The language is clear, objective, and value-neutral, with a formal register and precise word
choice. The text follows the conventional structure and adheres to formatting guidelines
with no grammatical or spelling mistakes. The LiDAR sensor receives laser pulses reflected
by the object and records the reception time. The LiDAR sensor calculates the distance
between the object and the sensor by measuring the time interval between the emission and
reception of the laser pulses. By continuously transmitting and receiving the laser pulses,
the LiDAR sensor creates a point cloud map of the object et object in three-dimensional
space, enabling high-precision measurement and imaging of the object.
Machine vision is also a distance measurement technique for berry fruit-picking robots.
A stereo vision system that uses two or more cameras captures an image of an object and
then calculates the distance between the object and the camera by measuring the difference
in the object’s position in the image across the different cameras. This method provides
accurate distance measurements. Alternatively, depth cameras, such as those based on
structured light or time flight technology, can also be used. These cameras capture an
object’s depth information and calculate the distance between the object and the camera by
analyzing the depth information in the image.
•
Switching Sensors
Switching sensors are frequently used to determine whether a specific position has
been reached or to provide a trigger signal to the mechanical system [14]. Switching control
is extensively used in natural robotics systems. It is commonly used for actuators with only
two states: on or off. The non-modelled on-off switching control, particularly popular in
soft robots, can also be regarded as an open-loop control strategy [99]. Switch sensors used
for berry fruit-picking robots include photoelectric, proximity, and pressure switches.
The photoelectric switch typically comprises a light-emitting diode and a photosensi-
tive diode. The light from the diode is reflected to the photoelectric device when an object
approaches, and the detection circuit generates a corresponding output signal [100]. The
photoelectric sensor switch emits infrared or other types of light, which is then detected by
a light-sensitive element, such as a photodiode. The photosensitive element generates a
current that triggers the switch action when it senses the emitted light. Conversely, when
the light is blocked or absent, the receiver stops generating current, and the switch turns
off. The photoelectric sensor switch operates by detecting the presence or absence of light
using the photoelectric effect, enabling switch control. These sensor switches are widely
used in automated control systems to detect object presence or position and measure object
distance and speed.
The proximity switch operates on the principle of wireless electromagnetic induction.
The system comprises four primary circuits that generate a magnetic field throughout
the working area by passing an alternating current through two power supplies. The
wireless proximity switches in the working area receive energy from the magnetic field
through small coils and convert it into electrical energy. These sensors have small radio

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
15 of 42
transceivers and low-power electronics to facilitate wireless communication. The sensors
communicate with the input module through an antenna mounted in the working area [101].
Proximity switches detect object activity within a perception field by generating discrete
binary output signals. This signal coupling can be achieved through various methods,
including capacitive, inductive, fluid, acoustic reflection, optical reflection, and optical
transmission [102].
The pressure switch is a device that controls a circuit based on pressure changes.
It operates by using a pressure sensor to convert the pressure signal into an electrical
signal, which then controls the state of the switch through an electrical circuit. The switch
changes state when the pressure sensor detects a change in external pressure, generating
an electrical signal. The signal is transmitted to the control circuit, which determines
whether the switch’s trigger conditions have been met based on a preset pressure threshold.
If the pressure exceeds the set threshold, the control circuit triggers the switch to close
and energize the circuit. Otherwise, the switch opens and de-energizes the circuit, thus
controlling the switch. Real-time perception of ambient pressure is crucial for the aerospace,
automotive, manufacturing, and medical industries [103].
4. Methods and Analysis
4.1. Visual Perception
This chapter outlines the methodology and critically evaluates the advantages and dis-
advantages of three methods of visual perception—object detection, semantic segmentation,
and instance segmentation—employed in berry fruit-picking robots.
4.1.1. Methods
Table 2 reviews visual perception methods for picking berry fruits. Image classification
has been excluded from the table as it is considered less relevant for berry fruit picking
than the other three methods.
Table 2. Methods of berry fruit picking using visual perception.
Methods
Object
Advantage
Disadvantage
Ref.
Object
Detection
Strawberry
This method detects mature and
immature strawberries in greenhouse
images, yielding highly accurate
test results.
The ripe category struggles with
obscured strawberries, while the
immature category faces
confusion issues.
[104]
Cherry
tomato
This method uses an enhanced YOLOv3
algorithm for cherry tomato detection,
achieving a precision of 94.29%.
Identifying heavily shaded fruits was
difficult, and the integration of
ripeness in detecting fruits at various
growth stages was not performed.
[105]
Cherry
This cherry detection method is based
on an improved YOLOv4 model. It
accurately detects ripe, semi-ripe,
unripe, and ripe cherry fruits.
The speed of object detection is
relatively slow for cherries.
[106]
Blueberry
A YOLOv5 network model that can
detect blueberries improved accuracy by
2.4% over the original
YOLOv5 network.
The disadvantage is that the method
has more network parameters, and
further research is needed to improve
the detection ability.
[107]
Strawberry
YOLOv5 combined with dark channel
enhancement improves strawberry
fruit-picking accuracy and robustness in
complex environments.
This method does not use different
image enhancement methods for
various periods of lighting conditions.
[108]
Strawberry
A strawberry growth detection
algorithm improves the precision and
accuracy of fruit growth state
monitoring in complex environments.
Deep learning-based strawberry
growth state monitoring is
server-dependent and still
has limitations.
[109]

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
16 of 42
Table 2. Cont.
Methods
Object
Advantage
Disadvantage
Ref.
Tomato
The YOLO-Tomato models effectively
detect tomatoes in complex
environmental conditions, and their
performance is excellent.
The method is designed to enumerate
fruit, and the YOLOv3 model
performs poorly in detecting
small fruits.
[110]
Tomato
The YOLO-Tomato model effectively
detects tomatoes in complex
environments, outperforming
state-of-the-art methods.
Models are poorly adapted to different
conditions and may lose semantic
information under heavily
occluded conditions.
[111]
Strawberry
The R-YOLO model improves the
localization precision, increasing
strawberry harvesting robots’ harvest
rate and real-time performance.
It does not discuss the detection
accuracy under different
environmental conditions. There is a
lack of comparative analysis of
existing methods.
[112]
Kiwifruit
The improved DY3TNet model
accurately detects kiwifruits in orchards
with minimal data weight.
The method mentions the effect of
flash on kiwifruit image detection, but
no statistical tests were performed.
[113]
Semantic
Segmentation
Grape
This CNN accurately detects grape
berries for yield estimation and
prediction in viticulture.
It shows a notably worse accuracy for
the class edge, with 41.7%.
[114]
Tomato
This method accurately segments
tomatoes, with intersection and pixel
accuracies of 82.5% and
89.79%, respectively.
This method may be some burrs in the
process of extracting tomato stems
and calyxes that may affect the
identification of the final
picking points.
[115]
Strawberry
This method accurately assesses
strawberry maturity in challenging
fields with 93.7% accuracy.
Many strawberries in the transition
maturity stage may cause
classification confusion.
[116]
Grape
DeepLabv3+ combined with transfer
learning is more suitable for accurately
segmenting grape clusters, with
better performance.
The method mentions increased
accuracy with HE image enhancement
methods but lacks details on
statistical tests.
[117]
Strawberry
The Hierarchical adaptive feature fusion
method significantly improves real-time
strawberry segmentation compared to
existing methods.
This methodology does not provide
detailed comparative results or
discussion with other related methods.
[118]
Grape
This method proposes a conditional
random field-based approach to identify
grapes with adaptivity and
multi-feature fusion.
The present study conducted
experiments with artificially selected
reference berries, which may
introduce a subjective factor for
identification.
[119]
Grape
The method was developed to efficiently
estimate canopy volume, detect clusters,
and count grapevines in the field.
The present method is a more reliable
option for sensitivity to light
conditions, and the RGB-D sensor’s
data quality is better.
[120]
Tomato
A transformer-based R-CN model
effectively accurately identifies tomato
varieties and ripening stages.
The method does not explore tomato
detection in various occluded regions,
raising practical
applicability concerns.
[121]
Bayberry
A CNN-based model for prune
segmentation in complex environments
that resists the limitations of light
variations and occlusion.
Higher false and missed segmentation
rates and poorer segmentation of
small objects in fruit clusters.
[122]

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
17 of 42
Table 2. Cont.
Methods
Object
Advantage
Disadvantage
Ref.
Grape
This method can detect and mask single
berry objects with a semantic
segmentation network using a class
edge to separate single objects.
The training of this method is time
and computationally intensive and
has limited adaptability to different
training systems.
[123]
Instance
Segmentation
Blueberry
The ResNet50 backbone with Mask
R-CNN accurately quantifies wild
blueberries using
high-definition images.
Many experiments are required to
select the best hyper-parameters in
order, and this method has a slower
recognition speed.
[124]
Blueberry
This method effectively detects and
segments blueberry fruits, extracting
traits related to yield and monitoring
fruit development.
This method has a slower
recognition speed.
[125]
Grape
The enhanced model achieved high
detection accuracy and robust
generalization across diverse varieties in
complex growth environments.
Detection accuracy is limited under
varying light conditions and occlusion,
while the model’s detection speed
requires further improvement.
[126]
Waxberry
The waxberry identification network
achieved high precision and
demonstrated strong robustness
to occlusion.
It did not increase the immature
waxberries for fruit counting and
yield estimation. It does not solve the
problems caused by fruit stacking.
[127]
Grape
This method is versatile for grape berry
counting and size detection, enabling
precise discernment of berry features.
Errors in segmentation may result in
the misclassification of non-berry
contours as a group.
[128]
Strawberry
The improved DeepLabV3+ model
accurately segments strawberries with
different maturities, reducing
environmental factors.
This method does not conduct
experiments on strawberries of
different locations, and the recognition
speed is slow.
[129]
Cherry
tomato
Using bimodal eigenmaps and a
balanced multitask loss model, this
model enhances stem segmentation
accuracy in cherry tomato picking.
The present model has challenges
regarding color and shape similarity,
loss of stem features, and category
differences.
[130]
Strawberry
A method for strawberry segmentation
demonstrated efficiency in a natural
system and created a database with
images and entries.
New methods emerge, making
rigorous performance comparison
impossible due to long
computational times.
[131]
Strawberry
The method identified and localized
strawberries and provided location
information.
The model has some drawbacks
regarding error detection and speed in
the recognition process.
[132]
Strawberry
A Mask R-CNN model detects
strawberries and other diseases,
providing plant disease detection.
The model’s accuracy is low, and the
recognition time is extended.
[133]
The object detection technique applied to berry fruit picking is shown in Figure 8.
Figure 8a shows an example of kiwifruit image detection by a deep learning model on
an image taken in the morning with a flash; the yellow circle denotes undetected and
incorrectly detected kiwifruit, and the purple wireframe denotes the recognized kiwifruit,
the improved DY3TNet model accurately detects kiwifruits in orchards with minimal data
weight [113]. Figure 8b shows the improved model for cherry fruit detection results. The
cherry purple wireframe, blue wireframe, and green wireframe indicate the different inter-
sections and ratios of the mode, and this method is a cherry fruit detection method based
on an improved YOLO—V4 model. Ripe, semi-ripe, unripe fruits, and ripe cherry fruits
can be detected accurately [106]. Figure 8c shows the results of R-YOLO detection of straw-

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
18 of 42
berries; the R-YOLO model significantly improves the localization precision, increasing the
harvest rate and real-time performance of strawberry harvesting robots [112]. Figure 8d
shows the results of tomato detection based on the improved YOLOv3 YOLO-Tomato
model; this method effectively detects tomatoes in complex environments, outperforming
state-of-the-art methods [110].
Figure 8. Object detection techniques applied to berry fruit picking: (a) Detection of kiwifruit in the
orchard using improved YOLOv3—tiny model from Ref. [113]. Copyright 2021, Springer Nature.
(b) Detection of cherry fruits based on the improved YOLOv4 model from Ref. [106]. Copyright 2023,
Springer Nature. (c) Visual localization of the picking points for a ridge-planting strawberry from
Ref. [112]. (d) Tomato detection based on modified YOLOv3 framework from Ref. [110].
The semantic segmentation technique applied to berry fruit picking is shown in
Figure 9. Figure 9a shows the recognition of grapes by the model network in darkness and
sunlight. The figure shows that the grapes can be accurately recognized in both cases, and
this method can detect and mask single berry objects with a semantic segmentation network
by using a class ‘edge’ to separate single objects from each other fruits [123]. Figure 9b
shows the segmentation results of bayberry in real-life environments, a CNN-based model
for prune segmentation in complex environments that resists the limitations of light varia-
tions and occlusion [122]. Figure 9c shows the outcomes of strawberry segmentation and
ripeness detection, assessing six distinct ripeness levels of strawberries in a challenging
field environment, with a final average accuracy rating of high [116]. Figure 9d shows the
outcome of identifying tomato picking points. The left figure illustrates the algorithm’s
implementation, while the correct figure demonstrates the model’s precise identification
of tomato-picking points in natural light. Additionally, this model effectively identifies
tomato varieties and ripening stages [121].
The instance segmentation technique applied to berry fruit picking is shown in Figure 10.
Figure 10a shows the model for assigning ripeness ratings to ten berries on a branch. Ripe
fruits are numbered 1, 2, 4, and 9, while unripe fruits are numbered 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 10. This
method can detect and mask single-berry objects using a semantic segmentation network
by employing a class ‘edge’ to separate individual objects [124]. Figure 10b shows the test
results for grape recognition and instance segmentation in various environments. Despite
not being trained, the improved model achieved high detection and segmentation accu-
racy and inter-varietal generalization performance in complex growth environments [126].
Figure 10c displays the segmentation model, which accurately segments the strawberry.
This method for strawberry instance segmentation demonstrates efficiency in a natural
system and generates a representative database with images and detailed entries [131].
Figure 10d illustrates the detection and segmentation of waxberries in various lighting

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
19 of 42
conditions, including good light, leaf shade, and overlapping fruits. The waxberry iden-
tification network was evaluated, and the results demonstrated its high precision and
robustness to occlusion and overlap [127].
Figure 9. Semantic segmentation techniques applied to berry fruit picking: (a) Counting of grapevine
berries using convolutional neural networks from Ref. [123]. (b) Bayberry segmentation is based on a
multi-module convolutional neural network from Ref. [122]. (c) Recognition of strawberry ripeness
combining Mask R-CNN from Ref. [116]. (d) A transformer-based Mask R-CNN for tomato detection
and segmentation from Ref. [121].
Figure 10. Instance segmentation techniques applied to berry fruit picking: (a) Quantifying blue-
berries in the wild using instance segmentation. from Ref. [124]. (b) Mask R-CNN for instance
segmentation of grape cluster from Ref. [126]. (c) Deep learning method for strawberry instance
segmentation from Ref. [131]. (d) A segmentation method for waxberry image from Ref. [127].
4.1.2. Analysis
The analysis of object detection applications has revealed that image recognition
techniques can efficiently and accurately identify various fruit items, especially in contexts
involving large volumes of fruit. However, these methods face limitations in detecting small,
occluded, or densely packed objects and are prone to errors in complex backgrounds or

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
20 of 42
varied lighting conditions. Future challenges in object detection include developing scalable
proposal generation strategies, effectively encoding contextual information, automating
machine learning for object detection, establishing new benchmarks, achieving low-shot
detection capabilities, and designing robust backbone architectures for detection tasks [65].
Semantic segmentation facilitates the pixel-wise annotation of categories in berry
fruit images, providing a more detailed semantic representation than object detection.
This technique is beneficial for understanding complex scenes, image segmentation, and
practical applications such as berry picking. However, it is computationally intensive and
time-consuming, with suboptimal performance for small, complex, or indistinct objects.
Future challenges in semantic segmentation include acquiring more challenging datasets,
balancing accuracy with inference speed, enhancing domain-adaptive methods, leveraging
contextual knowledge to improve model accuracy, exploring temporal correlations in
video and image sequences, advancing weakly supervised segmentation techniques, and
addressing profound structure catastrophes, including catastrophic forgetting [134].
Instance segmentation effectively segments individual berry fruit instances, precisely
delineating multiple objects within the same category and detailed boundary data. This
capability enhances object tracking and analysis. However, instance segmentation is com-
putationally intensive and time-consuming, and its performance may be less reliable than
semantic segmentation in scenarios with dense objects or complex backgrounds. Future
advancements in instance segmentation may focus on single-location and single-mask
approaches, multi-level feature integration, real-time processing, memory management,
handling occlusions and disconnections, addressing small objects, developing unified
segmentation frameworks, improving fine annotations, and implementing weakly and
semi-supervised methods [135].
4.2. Tactile Perception
This chapter outlines the methodology and critically evaluates the advantages and dis-
advantages of four methods of tactile perception—piezoresistive, capacitive, piezoelectric,
and triboelectric tactile sensors—employed in berry fruit-picking robots.
4.2.1. Methods
Table 3 shows a literature review of the methods used for tactile sensors in berry
fruit-picking robots.
Table 3. Methods of berry fruit-picking robots using tactile perception.
Methods
Object
Advantage
Disadvantage
Ref.
Piezoresistive
Tomato
Servo motors control the bending
angle and speed of the soft gripper,
with tactile sensors for
tomato gripping.
The sensor is non-stretchable,
which influences the flexibility of
the gripper.
[136]
Grape
An anthropomorphic end-effector that
combines the adhesion principle with
a multi-contact design with
piezoresistive tactile sensors.
This method has some
drawbacks in maximizing the
contact area and lacks a direct
measurement and
adjustment process.
[137]
Strawberry
A soft, sensitized gripper is
introduced with a robotic system for
picking small fruits like strawberries.
The present gripper jaws’
piezoresistive tactile sensors are
unsuitable for handling fragile
berries with a normal
force range.
[138]
Blackberry
A tendon-driven gripper for
automated blackberry harvesting,
incorporating a flexible resistive force
sensor for providing force feedback.
Complex calibration process and
poor signal immunity.
[59]

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
21 of 42
Table 3. Cont.
Methods
Object
Advantage
Disadvantage
Ref.
Kiwifruit
This methodology enables detecting
and classifying kiwifruit according to
fruit hardness, utilizing data from
force and bending sensors.
The gripper may damage the
fruit during gripping, and the
perception function may be
limited due to the limited
number of sensors.
[139]
Sweet
pepper
The end-effector can successfully pick
the pepper, and the vacuum pressure
sensor provides feedback that the
suction cup has grabbed it.
Vacuum pressure sensors are
less sensitive at low pressures
and are highly influenced
by temperature.
[140]
Tomato
The method enables the grasping of
tomatoes while combining tactile
perception information and
algorithms to classify the size
and ripeness.
This method lacks practical
scenarios and performance
evaluations and raises concerns
about reliability and robustness.
[141]
Strawberry
A piezoresistive tactile sensor
manufactured by a 3D printer with no
additional modifications can be used
with a soft robot to grasp strawberries.
The print material’s increased
resistance lowers sensor
sensitivity. Material deformation
causes readings to drift
and oscillate.
[142]
Capacitive
Tomato
Electrohydraulic bending actuators
with tactile sensors for real-time
gripping detection and fruit
size estimation.
The manual fabrication process
and multi-component design
represent drawbacks.
[143]
Strawberry
Capacitive sensors integrated into
robotic gripper jaws enable gentle
picking of strawberries, providing
susceptible data output.
Increasing pressure causes a rise
in compressive stiffness, impairs
sensor performance, and limits
the linear measurement range.
[144]
Piezoelectric
Tomato
Piezoelectric sensors can measure the
end-effector’s initial contact with the
tomato, signal oscillations,
and vibrations.
This approach does not solve the
problems of poor surface contact
and adhesion that affect
pressure sensors.
[145]
Tomato
The bionic manipulator features
adaptive gripping capabilities, using
piezoelectric and strain sensors to
measure the softness of tomatoes.
Without a sensor module, the
robot cannot adjust the contact
force and is less accurate when
using a single piezo to
recognize softness.
[146]
Triboelectric
Tomato
A three-finger actuator and a
triboelectric tactile sensor have been
designed to monitor and clamp
tomatoes precisely.
Other factors strongly influence
sensor performance and are
poorly adapted to changes in the
shape of the gripped object.
[147]
Kiwifruit
A hybrid sensor integrates a
triboelectric perception unit and an
inductive sensor. When combined
with vision, it accurately
detects kiwifruit.
The method has some
limitations when dealing with
complex input signals, including
the inability to recognize other
features of the object.
[148]
Tomato
The end-effector fingers are equipped
with TENG sensors, featuring a simple
structure, high sensitivity, and
durability for harvesting tomatoes.
Drawbacks include non-linearity,
creep issues, dependency on
external light sources, and
magnetic fields.
[149]
The related technologies of tactile sensors for berry fruit-picking robots are demon-
strated in Figure 11.

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
22 of 42
 
Figure 11. Tactile perception applied to berry fruit-picking robots: (a) A multi-finger gripper and
its grasping grape cluster from Ref. [137]. (b) A gripper for delicate harvesting of strawberries from
Ref. [138]. (c) Grasping perception of kiwifruit gripper and its structure from Ref. [139]. (d) A sweet
pepper harvesting robot and its gripper’s structure from Ref. [141]. (e) A gripper with capacitive
object size detection from Ref. [143]. (f) The structure of the capacitive sensor and its application
from Ref. [144]. Copyright 2023, IEEE. (g) PE sensor integrated on a robotic hand and its grasping
from Ref. [146]. (h) A dynamic tactile sensor and its application from Ref. [145]. (i) A finger of the
end-effector with a triboelectric sensor is used to monitor the tactile aspect of the robot from Ref. [149].
(j) A finger of end-effector with triboelectric sensor and its application from Ref. [147].

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
23 of 42
Figure 11a–d show piezoresistive tactile sensors. Figure 11a demonstrates that the
finger of this end-effector exhibits an overextended pinch force, with the center of pressure
located at the mid-point of the distal phalanx. The end-effector is equipped with a linear
orbital system for in-measurement transducerization and resistive force sensors, and grapes
can be held in contact with the finger, an anthropomorphic end-effector that combines
the adhesion principle with a multi-contact design with piezoresistive tactile sensors to
have grapes [137]. Figure 11b shows the end-effector with pressure sensors for real-time
force estimation during strawberry-picking tasks, demonstrating the integration of a soft-
sensitized gripper with a robotic system capable of recognizing and picking small fruits
such as strawberries [138]. Figure 11c shows that the flexible gripper can grip soft and hard
kiwifruit. Force-sensitive resistive sensors are attached to the inner surface of the flexible
fingers to detect the pressure between the flexible gripper and the fruit contact surface
in real-time during the kiwifruit gripping process. This approach allows force sensors
to detect and classify kiwifruit based on fruit hardness during kiwifruit picking [139].
Figure 11d shows a fully assembled artificial tactile feedback system with bimodal sensors.
The system can monitor the force in real-time while grasping tomatoes and the state of
tomatoes during grasping, the grasping of tomatoes while combining tactile perception
information and algorithms to classify the size and ripeness of tomatoes [141].
Figure 11e,f show capacitive tactile sensors. Figure 11e demonstrates a lightweight
gripping system that can be reliably used for effectively gripping tomatoes and detecting
the size of the tomato through the combination of a voltage switch and capacitive tactile
sensors [143]. Figure 11f exploits the ability of anisotropic wedge microstructures to
induce bending deformations and designs capacitive pressure sensors with integrated
anisotropic wedge microstructure dielectric layers. The sensors consist of silicone rubber
and silver, capacitive pressure sensors integrated with a robotic gripper allow gentle picking
of strawberries, and the data output from the sensors is susceptible [144].
Figure 11g,h show piezoelectric tactile sensors. Figure 11g demonstrates a 3D-printed
bionic manipulator and the integration of a perception system with flexible piezoelectric
and strain sensors on the fingers. The bionic manipulator has adaptive gripping capabilities
and combines piezoelectric and strain sensors to enable tomato softness measurement [146].
Figure 11h shows a versatile, low-cost, highly stable tactile sensor for static and dynamic
load measurement. The sensor comprises a three-layer basic structure, a fiber core layer,
and electrically conductive fabric electrodes. These provide excellent electrical conductivity
and allow the end effector to grip the tomato firmly without additional support so the fruit
does not break. They can measure the softness of the tomato [145].
Figure 11i,j show triboelectric tactile sensors. Figure 11i shows the TENG (triboelectric
nanogenerator) sensor consisting of a buckling electrode, liquid metal, silicone, and soft
gripper, coupled with a robotic manipulator to enable the picking of fruits such as tomatoes;
the finger has excellent flexion morphology at different degrees of bending [149]. Figure 11j
demonstrates that the flexible finger of the TENG sensor is made of Silicone rubber and
is divided into four segments by three 45◦triangular cuts to facilitate its bending and
to achieve a better envelope profile for conformal contact with objects with complex ge-
ometries. A good envelope profile during gripping improves maneuvering stability and
facilitates pressure perception and energy harvesting in smart actuator designs. Adjacent
knuckles with 45◦triangular cuts at the shoulder provide 90◦angular displacement during
flexion. The fingertip phalanges are rounded, and the cable is inserted through the elas-
tomer on the bent side, to which one end is attached. To protect the actuator body and
reduce potential friction, a plastic tubing piece is placed inside each tubing piece drilled
hole. The end-effector consists of a flexible finger, gripper stands, and adjust distance;
a three-finger actuator combined with a triboelectric tactile sensor has been designed to
monitor and clamp tomatoes with precision [147].

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
24 of 42
4.2.2. Analysis
Piezoresistive sensors are distinguished by affordability, durability, resilience, and
capacity to accurately gauge static and dynamic pressure/strain [150,151]. They are widely
utilized in berry picking due to their uncomplicated design, dependable operation, reliabil-
ity, and economical cost. Furthermore, these sensors exhibit remarkable resilience to wear
and corrosion, ensuring prolonged functionality in challenging field conditions without
susceptibility to damage. However, piezoresistive sensors are sensitive to environmental
variables like humidity and temperature, which can influence their performance. They also
have a restricted measurement range, potentially limiting their ability to accommodate
different sizes and hardness levels of berries. Furthermore, piezoresistive sensors can
be influenced by external interferences like machine vibrations or mechanical collisions,
compromising accuracy. A significant drawback is their reliance on an external power
supply to drive the resistance signal detection process. In summary, while piezoresistive
sensors offer simplicity, reliability, and cost-effectiveness advantages, they face challenges
concerning environmental adaptability, accuracy, data processing requirements, and power
dependency in berry-picking applications [152].
Capacitive sensors offer several significant advantages for berry fruit-picking robots,
including precise accuracy, a wide measurement range, enhanced adaptability, rapid re-
sponse times, and robust anti-interference capabilities. Furthermore, capacitive sensors can
accurately detect and pick fruit while maintaining a relatively simple structure, exhibit-
ing excellent linearity, very low hysteresis, and low power consumption [153]. However,
capacitive sensors may experience performance fluctuations due to environmental fac-
tors such as temperature, humidity, and stray capacitance. These variations can lead to
inconsistent sensor outputs. Precise installation and calibration are critical for capacitive
sensors to assess fruit ripeness and hardness accurately. Capacitive sensors are susceptible
to electromagnetic interference compared to piezoresistive sensors. They also generate
substantial datasets that require advanced data processing algorithms for meaningful infor-
mation extraction. Other challenges associated with capacitive sensors include ensuring
biocompatibility, enhancing material durability, achieving precise structural perception,
and developing self-powering capabilities.
As piezoelectric sensors can detect dynamic stress factors [124], Piezoelectric sensors
offer high sensitivity and a broad measuring range, enabling precise detection of fruit pres-
sure dynamics with rapid response times. They also exhibit enhanced durability, stability,
and lower power consumption. However, Piezoelectric sensors are sensitive to environ-
mental factors such as temperature and humidity, which can influence their operational
effectiveness. They generally incur higher manufacturing costs compared to other sensor
types. Accurately processing their output signals to obtain precise pressure information
necessitates advanced computational algorithms. Additionally, piezoelectric sensors can
be susceptible to interference from robot motion or vibrations, potentially compromising
their ability to measure fruit pressure accurately. Addressing these challenges involves
advancements in piezoelectric materials, optimizing sensor structures, exploring various
vibration modes, and integrating multiple operational modes for improved robustness and
accuracy in fruit pressure detection applications [154].
The most significant attribute of triboelectric sensors is their capacity to generate
electrostatic charges through the friction between materials, facilitating energy conversion
and sensing functions. These sensors employ the electrostatic effect generated by materials
during contact and separation to detect and quantify an object’s contact force, state of
motion, or surface properties. Furthermore, these sensors can detect the pressure exerted by
a robotic manipulator or gripper on the fruit, ensuring gentle handling to prevent damage
or crushing. However, practical triboelectric effects depend on the material’s response to
charge separation during friction and contact. Addressing these challenges involves opti-
mizing triboelectric materials for enhanced sensitivity and durability, mitigating sensitivity
to environmental conditions, and integrating sensors effectively into robotic systems for
optimal performance in fruit harvesting applications [155].

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
25 of 42
4.3. Distance Measurement
This chapter outlines the methodology and critically evaluates the advantages and
disadvantages of four distance measurement methods—infrared, LiDAR, ultrasonic, and
multimodal sensors—employed in berry fruit-picking robots.
4.3.1. Methods
Table 4 displays the methods used for distance measurement techniques related to
berry fruit-picking robots. Figure 12 shows a review of distance measurement-related
techniques applied to berry fruit-picking robots.
Table 4. Methods used for distance measurement techniques related to berry fruit-picking robots.
Methods
Object
Advantage
Disadvantage
Ref.
Infrared
Strawberry
The manipulator uses three internal
infrared sensors to optimally identify and
position the object.
The infrared sensor may cause incorrect
positioning due to occlusion, and the
sensor may not be detected due to
unsuccessful cutting.
[32]
Tomato
The camera consists of a pair of stereo
infrared sensors. The 3D coordinates of
the object tomato in the camera coordinate
system were measured.
Environmental, background, lighting,
occlusion, and overlap issues can make
detecting and locating object
tomatoes difficult.
[156]
Grape
The infrared sensor detects and
synchronizes the position of the grapes
for harvesting.
Infrared sensors have limited detection
range and narrow transmission and
reception angles.
[157]
Strawberry
RGB-D cameras can estimate the position
of strawberries in three-dimensional space
by combining infrared with
depth information.
When calculating the strawberry’s
position, there is an error due to the
offset of the image center from the
camera’s mounting position.
[158]
Cherry
tomato
RGB-D cameras provide high precision
and accuracy in locating cherry tomatoes
by acquiring multimodal images.
Positioning becomes more complicated
when the camera is in front of the fruit.
[159]
LiDAR
Strawberry
The finger is equipped with a pair of
LiDAR sensors; when the fruit stem
blocks the laser beam, the control module
operates to cut off the stem.
LiDAR sensors have errors, and the
sensor’s small detection distance makes
it unable to adapt to narrow and
low-channel environments.
[160]
Strawberry
Fusion of laser sensors with monocular
cameras for accurate navigation and
improved system fault tolerance.
LiDAR sensors do not provide semantic
information for scene recovery in
complex environments and limit
accuracy and light changes.
[161]
Tomato
Using LIDAR sensors, accurate
representation and positioning of crops
such as tomatoes can be achieved in
occlusion.
Tracking systems may suffer from
errors, switching between objects, or
missed and false detections.
[162]
Tomato
Using LIDAR, the mobile platform is
provided with environmental awareness
and navigation capabilities for
autonomous movement.
LIDAR data processing requires
conversion and fusion with other data,
and LIDAR has difficulties in dealing
with background interference.
[163]
Ultrasonic
Blueberry
Ultrasonic sensors can detect weeds and
determine a plant’s height by measuring
the distance between it and the sensor.
Ultrasonic sensors may have some
errors in measuring crop height, and the
input voltage and the characteristics of
the sensor itself limit its output.
[164]
Multimodal
Tomato
Infrared sensors measure plant position,
LiDAR acquires 3D information about the
plants, and RGB-D cameras validate
LiDAR results.
Occlusion limits the infrared sensor’s
field of view and light signal, and
lighting and incident light affect camera
image quality.
[165]
Tomato
Using LIDAR and infrared cameras, it is
possible to navigate, build maps, detect
tomatoes, and locate the center point of
a tomato.
LIDAR and depth camera tomato
recognition outdoors is affected by light.
[166]

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
26 of 42
Figure 12a–c demonstrate three examples of infrared sensors used in berry fruit-
picking robots. Figure 10a displays the end-effector of a cherry tomato-picking robot, which
includes an RGB-D camera (infrared sensors), a housing, a gripping device, and a drive
unit. The end-effector successfully picked cherry tomatoes in the greenhouse thanks to
the recognition and range of the RGB-D camera [159]. Figure 12b shows the detection
of strawberries in a natural environment using an on-board strawberry detection task.
The RGB-D camera captures the frame and displays the pixel coordinates of the center
of mass of the strawberry in the lower right corner. RGB-D cameras use infrared and
depth information to estimate the position of strawberries in three-dimensional space [158].
Figure 12c displays the internal view of the end-effector of the strawberry-picking robot. It
comprises a cable housing, pulley, IR sensor (infrared sensor), torsion spring, curved blade,
and sponge. The manipulator utilizes three internal infrared sensors to identify the object
and then directs the manipulator to the optimal cutting position [32].
Figure 12d–f present three LiDAR sensor applications for berry fruit-picking robots.
Figure 12d shows an automated trussed tomato harvesting platform. The platform uses Li-
DAR and IMU (Inertial Measurement Unit) for autonomous navigation. It also includes the
laboratory map created by the cartographer, raw LiDAR data, and robot modalities using
LiDAR. The mobile platform has environmental awareness and navigation capabilities for
autonomous movement and object localization [162]. Figure 12e displays the end-effector
of the strawberry picking robot, which comprises a cutting blade, a laser beam sensor, a
camera, a slideway, and a space cam gripper. The robot is equipped with laser sensors that
accurately measure the distance of the strawberries and pick them. Additionally, the fusion
of laser sensors with monocular cameras improves navigation accuracy and system fault
tolerance [160]. Figure 12f displays a tomato-picking robot before a greenhouse tomato
plant. The robot is fixed to a platform and can travel along a track between rows of plants.
An ABB IRB1200 robotic manipulator is equipped with a Live Sense L515 camera on its
end-effector, which, with the aid of LIDAR sensors, can accurately detect and position
crops, including tomatoes, even in occlusion [161].
Figure 12g presents the application of an ultrasonic sensor to a berry fruit-picking robot.
The image displays an Automated Ultrasonic System mounted on a farm vehicle, which is
used to detect blueberries. The field vegetation map of wild blueberries demonstrates the
Ultrasonic System’s ability to distinguish tall weeds and bare areas from the wild blueberry
plants within the selected field extent. The Ultrasonic System is particularly effective at
distinguishing tall weeds and bare patches from wild blueberry plants. Ultrasonic sensors
can detect weeds and empty areas and determine the plant’s height by measuring the
distance between the plant and the sensor [163].
Figure 12h,i demonstrate using multimodal sensors in berry fruit-picking robots.
Figure 12h shows the sensor platform used to measure tomato crops, which includes an
emitter infrared sensor, a receiver infrared sensor, and a wheel with an encoder. In con-
trast, the tractor carries a platform consisting of a Lateral Scanning Lidar sensor and a
Kinect sensor. Infrared sensors measure plant position and spacing, while LiDAR acquires
3D information about the plants. RGB-D cameras are then used to validate the LiDAR
results [164]. Figure 12i displays the hardware system of the tomato picking robot, compris-
ing a mobile platform, a 6DOF robotic manipulator UR3e, an end-effector, a depth camera,
a 3D LIDAR, and an industrial control machine. The infrared camera and projector of the
LIDAR and depth camera enable navigation, mapping, tomato detection, and center point
location [165].

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
27 of 42
 
Figure 12. Distance measurement-related technology applied to berry fruit-picking robots: (a) A
pneumatic finger-like end-effector and harvesting cherry tomato from Ref. [159]. (b) The strawberry
localization in a ridge planting from Ref. [158]. (c) A strawberry harvesting robot with a cable-driven
gripper from Ref. [32]. (d) A tomato harvesting robot with LiDAR from Ref. [162]. (e) A gripper with
laser beam sensor and its application from Ref. [160]. (f) A tomato harvesting robot with LiDAR
from Ref. [161]. (g) Detection of wild blueberry using an ultrasonic sensor from Ref. [163]. Copyright
2009, ASABE. (h) Optical sensing and LiDAR to determine tomato plant spacing from Ref. [164].
(i) Adaptive end-effector with multimodal sensors for tomato-harvesting robots from Ref. [165].

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
28 of 42
4.3.2. Analysis
From the above overview, it is evident that all methods applied to berry fruit picking
have certain advantages and disadvantages.
Infrared sensors are berry fruit-picking robots’ most used distance measurement tool.
This preference is likely attributed to their ability to accurately detect fruit ripeness and
location, thereby ensuring that only ripe fruits are harvested, enhancing overall efficiency.
Furthermore, the automation afforded by infrared sensors minimizes the need for human
intervention, resulting in cost savings. These sensors also improve the quality and ripeness
of the fruits picked and can adapt to varying environmental conditions and lighting,
enabling accurate fruit harvesting in diverse situations. Consequently, infrared sensors
hold significant potential for application in berry fruit-picking robots. However, the use of
infrared sensors does present certain disadvantages. Firstly, the high cost of infrared sensors
can increase the overall manufacturing cost of the robot. Secondly, their performance may
be compromised under adverse weather conditions, such as rain or snow. Additionally,
infrared sensors may be susceptible to interference from stray light and other environmental
factors, further affecting their accuracy in fruit picking. The main challenges facing infrared
sensors include cost reduction, improved energy efficiency, enhanced flexibility, and size
reduction [166].
LiDAR sensors are widely utilized for distance measurement in berry fruit picking due
to their superior accuracy compared to infrared sensors. They provide precise information
regarding the position and distance of fruits, enabling robots to accurately identify fruit
location and size, perform precise picking, and minimize damage to plants. Additionally,
LiDAR sensors can detect obstacles and perceive the environment in real-time, facilitating
safe robot navigation and collision avoidance. These sensors operate effectively under
various lighting conditions and can adapt to different orchard environments. However,
LiDAR sensors are generally more expensive than infrared sensors. Furthermore, LiDAR
sensors typically require more energy, leading to higher energy consumption. The instal-
lation and commissioning of LiDAR sensors may also be more complex, necessitating
technical support and ongoing maintenance. There is a pressing need for compact LiDAR
sensors that offer fast, high-resolution imaging with a large field of view and low power
consumption [98,167].
Ultrasonic sensors offer a cost-effective alternative to LiDAR, making them suitable
for budget-conscious fruit-picking robots. These sensors excel in ranging performance for
berry fruit harvesting by accurately detecting fruit distance and position while effectively
identifying obstacles like branches and leaves. This capability helps mitigate the risk of fruit
damage and collisions. However, ultrasonic sensors have a limited range, necessitating the
deployment of multiple sensors to cover more extensive orchards. Environmental factors
can also impact sensor performance, underscoring the importance of effective ecological
conditioning and noise filtering. Compared to LiDAR, ultrasonic sensors generally exhibit
lower accuracy. Their adoption of berry fruit picking remains limited due to the com-
plexity and constraints associated with ultrasound technology, particularly in challenging
environmental conditions [148].
Incorporating multimodal sensors is crucial due to the single sensor’s limitations.
Integrating multiple sensors enhances a robot’s ability to comprehensively perceive and
interpret its environment, including factors such as fruit location, distance, shape, and
obstacles. Employing diverse sensor types improves the robot’s performance across var-
ious environments and conditions, reducing reliance on any single sensor’s constraints.
While the integration of multiple sensor fusion technologies can enhance the accuracy and
authenticity of environmental data, it also brings about its own set of challenges [168]. This
integration also enables the robot to adapt to challenging scenarios like low light conditions,
dense fruit clusters, and complex terrain. Effectively integrating data from multiple sensors
and addressing future challenges remains critical [96].

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
29 of 42
4.4. Switching Sensors
This chapter outlines the methodology and critically evaluates the advantages and dis-
advantages of three methods of switching sensors—photoelectric, proximity, and pressure
switches—employed in berry fruit-picking robots.
4.4.1. Methods
Table 5 presents a literature review of the methods for switching sensors in berry fruit
picking. Figure 13 shows the technologies related to switching sensors applied to berry
fruit-picking robots.
Table 5. Methods of berry fruit-picking robots using switching sensors.
Methods
Object
Advantage
Disadvantage
Ref.
Photoelectric
Kiwifruit
The position data from the switch
sensor is transmitted to the stepper
motor, which drives the gripping
mechanism to clamp the fruit.
There may be a discrepancy between the
finger and the kiwi due to the light
restriction caused by the switch
mounting position.
[169]
Grape
The photoelectric switching sensor,
integrated into the gripper, provides
feedback that enables precise
strawberry gripping.
Errors in the photoelectric switching
sensor may result from occlusion and
stacking problems associated with the
strawberry fruit.
[170]
Proximity
Kiwifruit
The robot equipped with a hall sensor
can discern alterations in the magnetic
field and thereby determine the
position of the kiwifruit.
It is possible that the hall sensor
detection is not sufficiently sensitive due
to the kiwifruit’s non-magnetic shape.
[171]
Kiwifruit
Hall sensors discern alterations in
magnetic fields and regulate the
direction and number of steps stepper
motors undertake.
When catching fruit, kiwifruit-picking
robots tend to inhale surrounding
debris, such as branches and leaves.
[172]
Tomato
Magnetic proximity switches are used
for end-effector control and are used
to achieve control of the
tomato-picking position of the gripper.
Proximity switches are difficult to apply
in cluttered, messy, and fragile
plant environments.
[173]
Pressure
Grape
Fingers can be switched to clamp the
grapes flexibly using the information
obtained from the contact force with
the grapes to the actuator.
Due to the hydraulic brake’s low control
accuracy, the fruit may be damaged
during the clamping process.
[174]
Tomato
The gripper, driven by a self-service
motor, measures and precisely
controls the end-effector gripping
tomato using a resistance strain gauge.
Temperature variations and
electromagnetic interference can affect
resistance strain gauges, leading to
errors in the results.
[175]
Tomato
The gripper has a membrane pressure
switch that stops the finger from
closing when the pressure reaches a
minimum destructive value.
The pressure switch’s lack of flexibility
can easily damage the tomato rind.
[176]
Cherry
tomato
The pressure switch controls the force
of the end-effector to pick the tomato
after measuring the applied force on a
human finger.
The pressure switch is not mounted on
the end-effector, and due to individual
tomato differences, tomatoes may
be destroyed.
[177]
Sweet pepper
Vacuum switching sensors detect the
results of sweet pepper fruit gripping,
and harvesting operations continue
after successful fruit gripping.
Vacuum switch sensors are more costly
and have longer response times.
[178]

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
30 of 42
Figure 13a,b demonstrate the application of photoelectric switches in berry fruit-
picking robots. Figure 13a depicts a tomato-picking robot experiment in a lab. The robot
uses a photoelectric switch to guide the end-effector to tomato fruits. A photoelectric
switching sensor in the soft gripper offers positional feedback to the vision system for
tomato gripping [169]. Figure 13b shows the kiwifruit-picking process using an end-effector.
The end-effector’s finger includes a cutting mechanism and an infrared switch sensor. The
sensor detects the kiwi’s position and signals the stepper motor to clamp the fruit [170].
Figure 13. Switching sensors related technology applied to berry fruit-picking robots. (a) The
cherry tomato picking robot with photoelectric switches from Ref. [169]. (b) A soft gripper with
photoelectric switches for kiwifruit from Ref. [170]. (c) A berry-picking robot with proximity switches
from Ref. [173]. (d) A harvesting robot with a vacuum sensor for sweet pepper from Ref. [178]. (e) An
underactuated gripper with a pressure sensor for grasping grape cluster from Ref. [174]. Copyright
2023, IEEE.

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
31 of 42
Figure 13c illustrates proximity switches in a berry fruit-picking robot. The figure
shows a 1.8 mm OD magnetic sensor and source installed on the end-actuator of the
tomato-picking robot system. Magnetic proximity switches are primarily used for end-
effector position control and to achieve control of the tomato-picking position of the robot’s
gripper [173].
Figure 13d,e demonstrate pressure switches in a berry fruit-picking robot and a sweet
pepper-picking robot, respectively. Figure 13d displays the sweet pepper-picking robot,
which is composed of an end-actuator and a robotic manipulator. The end-actuator is
mainly comprised of a vacuum sensor and a knife. Vacuum-switching sensors detect
successful fruit gripping, after which harvesting operations can proceed [178]. Figure 13e
shows the end-effector of the grape harvesting robot, which can flexibly clamp the grapes
by switching its fingers based on the contact force with the grapes and the hydraulic
actuator [174].
4.4.2. Analysis
Photoelectric switches enable precise fruit position and size detection, ensuring ac-
curate picking through rapid response times that enhance harvesting efficiency. Their
integration into robotic control systems facilitates automated harvesting, thereby mini-
mizing the need for human intervention. These devices are characterized by consistent
performance and extended operational lifespans, allowing reliable function in challenging
environments. However, environmental factors such as light intensity and dust can ad-
versely affect sensor sensitivity, impacting operational effectiveness. Regular maintenance
and cleaning are essential to ensure optimal functionality, as these sensors play a critical
role in robotics. The high costs associated with precision photoelectric switches can increase
overall manufacturing expenses, and their specific environmental requirements may limit
their applicability across various fruit-picking scenarios. While these sensors share funda-
mental principles with infrared and LiDAR technologies for distance measurement, they
are employed in distinct applications. Future challenges for photoelectric switches include
achieving lower costs, reducing energy consumption, increasing flexibility, minimizing
size, and enhancing overall performance [98,166].
Proximity switches are more frequently employed in berry fruit-picking robots than
photoelectric switches due to their effective performance in various environmental condi-
tions, including light intensity and dust fluctuations. Their straightforward installation
and operation require minimal commissioning and calibration, reducing manufacturing
costs. Proximity switches are recognized for their high stability and reliability, maintaining
consistent functionality over extended periods and exhibiting resistance to external inter-
ference. However, proximity switches have limitations, such as a restricted detection range
that may be insufficient for long-distance applications. They may also exhibit reduced
sensitivity and precision in object detection compared to photoelectric switches. While
proximity switches can identify the presence of objects within their range, they cannot
differentiate between distinct types of fruit, posing challenges in applications requiring
specific identification. Additionally, metal interference can lead to erroneous detections or
operational issues in certain proximity switches. Addressing challenges related to detection
range, measurement accuracy, durability, and stability is crucial to ensuring the reliability
and longevity of proximity sensors. Furthermore, effectively integrating these sensors
with robotic systems for real-time data transmission and processing is essential, along with
developing methods to extract valuable insights from the extensive data generated by these
sensors [179].
Pressure switches are versatile tools used to develop automated fruit-picking robots.
These devices are unaffected by variations in light intensity, dust presence, or other envi-
ronmental factors, allowing them to operate effectively under diverse conditions. Their
installation and operation are straightforward, requiring no complex commissioning or
calibration processes. Pressure switches are known for their high stability and reliability,
maintaining consistent functionality over extended periods without significant influence

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
32 of 42
from external factors. However, pressure switches typically necessitate direct contact with
the fruit to activate, which may damage soft or delicate produce. As a result, the robot’s
picking action may lack the necessary gentleness, increasing the likelihood of fruit damage.
Furthermore, pressure switches can only indicate whether fruits have been picked and
cannot accurately determine their position or shape. Moreover, pressure switches are
susceptible to contamination from fruit residue or dust, necessitating regular cleaning and
maintenance to ensure optimal operation. As the primary distinction between pressure
switches and tactile sensors lies in their functionality, they share similar challenges, in-
cluding accuracy, environmental adaptability, data processing, durability, and structural
optimization [152,154,155].
5. Discussion and Prospect
5.1. The Technical Characteristics of the Perception Technology
In this review of perception techniques applied to berry-picking robots, we summa-
rized the technical characteristics of different perception techniques to discuss the features
of each perception technology. Figure 14 describes the technical characteristics of these
perception techniques when applied to berry fruit-picking robots.
Figure 14. The characteristics of the perception techniques.
•
Visual perception: the visual sensors exhibit high resolution and can accurately identify
the fruit’s location, size, and ripeness. They facilitate real-time monitoring of fruit
location and status, enabling the robot to adjust its actions accordingly. Additionally,
visual perception can automatically distinguish between different types of fruits,
ensuring the accuracy of the robot’s picking operations. Moreover, one of the primary
challenges in practical visual perception is the accuracy of perception in different
scenes and conditions [180]. It is, therefore, necessary to adapt visual perception to
different light and background conditions in different environments to improve the
reliability and accuracy of fruit-picking tasks.

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
33 of 42
•
Tactile perception: The fruit’s shape, hardness, and surface properties enable the robot
to grasp precisely. The tactile sensor delivers real-time data feedback, assisting the
robot in adjusting its picking actions to enhance efficiency and quality. Additionally,
the tactile sensor detects the pressure exerted by the robot upon contact with the fruit,
preventing excessive force that could potentially damage it. Furthermore, the tactile
sensor adapts to the varying characteristics of different fruit types and sizes, ensuring
precise and reliable harvesting.
•
Distance measurement: the distance measurement sensor accurately gauges the dis-
tance between the robot and the object fruit, ensuring the fruit can be grasped without
damage. Additionally, the sensor monitors real-time changes in distance, enabling
prompt adjustments to the robot’s movements for a stable picking process. The sensor
also detects distances to obstacles, allowing the robot to avoid collisions and ensuring
the safety of the robot and its environment. Furthermore, it aids the robot in accurately
locating fruit, thereby enhancing the efficiency and precision of the picking process.
•
Switching sensors: Firstly, they enable control of the robot’s actions based on detected
state information, such as initiating or halting the movement of the manipulator
and directing the robot’s movement. Secondly, they provide precise control over the
robot’s motions. The switch sensors monitor the status of various robot components,
including the opening and closing of the robotic manipulator and overall movement.
They can also detect contact between the robot and obstacles, immediately stopping
movement upon collision to prevent damage to both the robot and its surroundings.
Furthermore, the switch sensors assess the operational status of various components,
facilitating timely fault detection, diagnosis, and repair.
5.2. The Advanced Technical of Berry Fruit Picking
In berry fruit picking, it is essential to continuously integrate advanced technologies to
address the limitations of existing ones. Figure 15 illustrates several advanced technologies
applied to berry fruit picking.
Figure 15. Advanced technologies applied to berry fruit harvesting: (a) Fruit picking using physical
twinning from Ref. [181]. (b) A Bubble casts soft robotics by grasping small fruits from Ref. [182].
Copyright 2021, Springer Nature. (c) A hydraulically amplified self-healing electrostatic actuator
with muscle-like performance and its application. From Ref. [183].

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
34 of 42
Figure 15a displays a raspberry harvesting robot by Kai Junge et al. based on physical
twinning. This review introduces the application of physical twinning in agricultural
harvesting robots. Physical twinning involves modeling and simulating real-world systems
to transfer and sub-advance controllers. Physical twins enable a high success rate of
controller transfer and demonstrate the same faults as in real-world scenarios. The end-
effector consists of an electrically controlled parallel gripper and silicone fingers. Extending
the physical twin concept to more complex raspberry models can further improve the
robot’s functionality. The process involves selecting a physical twin model by a human,
which is then used by the picking robot to pick raspberries. The robot’s picking results
are compared to those of the human. This ensures accuracy and efficiency in the picking
process [181].
Figure 15b illustrates a bubble-casting soft robot developed by Trevor Jones et al.
to harvest blackberries. (i) figure presents a schematic diagram of the bubble-casting
manufacturing method, wherein bubbles are injected into a mold previously filled with a
polymer melt. (ii)The polymer residue is subsequently discharged and solidified to yield
an anisotropic actuator that facilitates ease of use during demolding. (ii)This actuator may
also function as a clip for blackberry picking. The method is characterized by flexibility,
robustness, and predictability, thereby accelerating the development of soft robots capable
of assembling complex actuators. Additionally, incorporating elongated, dodging, or
vascular structures can result in new functionalities derived from geometrical and material
nonlinearities while minimizing costs [182].
Figure 15c displays a hydraulically amplified self-healing electrostatic actuator de-
signed by E. Acome et al. The schematic shows a stack of five annular hydraulically
amplified self-healing electrostatic actuators with neighboring electrodes at the same poten-
tial. The end-effector is used to power a soft body gripper, which is actuated by a stack of
force-applied amplifying self-healing electrostatic actuators. The possibility of amplifying
self-healing electrostatic actuators for the next generation of soft-bodied robotic devices
is illustrated by a gripper for raspberries, a soft body gripper for manipulating delicate
objects, and a self-perception artificial muscle for powering a robotic manipulator. These
examples demonstrate the importance of clear and concise language, logical structure, and
precise word choice in technical writing [183].
5.3. Challenges and Future Opportunities
In recent decades, the development of manipulators, sensors, end-effectors, and al-
gorithms has led to the widespread use of picking robots in berry fruit picking. Today’s
picking perception technologies allow fruit-picking robots to significantly reduce costs,
improve efficiency, and reduce harvest time, distinguishing them from manual and tradi-
tional mechanical picking. However, despite these advancements, challenges in picking
perception technology persist, and several urgent problems require attention.
•
Accuracy: The accuracy of a robot in berry fruit picking hinges on its ability to precisely
identify and locate fruits, assess their ripeness, and execute picking actions with
minimal damage or errors. Reliable perception technology is essential for correctly
identifying different types of fruits. However, current technology often fails to achieve
this desired level of accuracy. Challenges such as visual perception errors caused by
lighting conditions, occlusion, wind effects, and background interference contribute
to omissions and misdetections in optical perception systems. As a result, ensuring
consistent accuracy in the berry fruit-picking process remains uncertain.
•
Adaptability: Adaptability in robotics refers to the ability of a robot to adjust its opera-
tions and techniques in response to varying conditions and situations. This includes
accommodating different types of berries, adapting to changes in weather conditions,
navigating different soil types, and handling various crop layouts. The goal is to opti-
mize efficiency and effectiveness in harvesting. During berry picking, environmental
factors like light, humidity, and temperature can affect sensor performance, impacting
perception capabilities. It is essential for perception technology to be adaptable in

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
35 of 42
natural environments, enabling robots to perform tasks such as obstacle avoidance,
object recognition, and precise object separation. These tasks can be challenging due
to the unpredictable characteristics of natural environments.
•
Durability: Durability in robotics refers to a robot’s ability to withstand wear, corrosion,
and physical damage in its operational environment. This includes resisting high
temperatures, humidity, dust, and the vibrations and shocks encountered during berry
picking. Ensuring sensors remain stable and functional over extended periods is
crucial for reliable performance in challenging conditions.
•
Data processing: Data processing in robotics involves the collection, analysis, and
utilization of sensor data. Sensors gather extensive information during operations,
such as the location, ripeness, and size of berries. Real-time processing is essential
to adjust the robot’s movements promptly. The application of numerical techniques
for the acquisition of sensory data may be susceptible to the influence of internal
bias [184]. Additionally, data may contain noise or errors, requiring cleaning and
correction. Integration of data from various sensors is vital for comprehensive analysis.
Thus, data processing poses a major challenge in perceptual technology.
•
Low cost: Low cost is defined as a cost-effectiveness that reduces research and devel-
opment expenses, thereby making the technology affordable and accessible for farms
of all sizes. The sensor is a crucial component of the perception system. However,
high-quality sensors with solid performance are still expensive, and they may become
faulty or damaged during use, requiring maintenance or replacement. Therefore, it is
necessary to reduce the cost of sensors while ensuring their quality and performance.
The advancement of future perception technologies must address several challenges
to enhance the efficiency and precision of berry fruit-picking robots. Firstly, developing
more efficient, adaptable, and flexible algorithms that accurately identify the location,
ripeness, and quality of fruits is essential. Secondly, integrating data from various complex
sensors is necessary to improve data processing accuracy and reliability. New sensor
materials should be utilized to enhance performance and quality. A perception system
layout incorporating multimodal sensors must be designed to accommodate different types
and shapes of berries, alongside various picking methods and operational modes, to fulfill
diverse fruit-picking requirements. The quality and performance of the sensors must be
ensured while minimizing costs.
6. Conclusions
In response to the issues associated with manual picking and conventional mechanical
harvesting of berry fruits, this review delineated the fundamental principles, operational
mechanisms, and structural components of berry fruit-picking robots. The pivotal role of
perception technologies in elucidating the berry-picking process was underscored. It was
established that diverse perception technologies were employed in various ways within
berry fruit-picking robots, inherently distinguished by their technical advantages and
disadvantages.
This review offers a comprehensive examination of the methodologies utilized in the
development of perception technologies for berry fruit-picking robots, with a particular
emphasis on visual perception, tactile perception, distance measurement, and switching
sensors. It evaluates the advantages and disadvantages of these technologies and syn-
thesizes their applications in berry picking. The technical requirements for perceptual
technologies are contingent upon the operational condition. In the context of greenhouse
cultivation, for instance, the importance of accuracy and efficiency cannot be overstated. In
such conditions, semantic segmentation has been demonstrated to be a more effective visual
method than other techniques. Conversely, field-grown berries necessitate adaptability and
durability, rendering berry fruit-picking robots equipped with robust piezoresistive tactile
sensors and adaptable LiDAR sensors a more suitable choice for variable field conditions.
Moreover, the review presents an overview of advanced fruit-picking technologies and
identifies potential future applications of perception technologies in berry fruit-picking

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
36 of 42
robots. By elucidating the strengths and limitations of current technologies, this review
offers valuable insights for practitioners and researchers alike, facilitating interdisciplinary
knowledge integration and guiding technological advancements.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, C.W., W.P. and Q.H.; methodology, C.W., X.Z. and T.Z.;
investigation, W.P., C.L. and Q.H.; resources, W.P., H.W. and T.Z.; writing—original draft preparation,
C.L., H.W. and J.Y.; writing—review and editing, C.W. and W.P.; project administration, T.Z. and
X.Z.; funding acquisition, C.W. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the
manuscript.
Funding: This work was supported by the Guangdong Province International Cooperation Project
(grant number 2023A0505050133) and the Guangdong Basic and Applied Basic Research Foundation
(grant number 2022A1515140162).
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
Data Availability Statement: No new data were created or analyzed in this study. Data sharing is
not applicable to this article.
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.
References
1.
Yang, L.; Sun, G. Research progress of berry and berry juice. Food Res. Dev. 2008, 5, 183–188. [CrossRef]
2.
Kähkönen, M.P.; Hopia, A.I.; Vuorela, H.J.; Rauha, J.-P.; Pihlaja, K.; Kujala, T.S.; Heinonen, M. Antioxidant Activity of Plant
Extracts Containing Phenolic Compounds. J. Agric. Food Chem. 1999, 47, 3954–3962. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
3.
Hertog, M.G.L.; Feskens, E.J.M.; Kromhout, D.; Hertog, M.G.L.; Hollman, P.C.H.; Hertog, M.G.L.; Katan, M.B. Dietary Antioxidant
Flavonoids and Risk of Coronary Heart Disease: The Zutphen Elderly Study. Lancet 1993, 342, 1007–1011. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
4.
Li, J.; Gao, C.; Xiao, B. Wild Fruit Development and Comprehensive Utilization, 1st ed.; Scientific and Technical Documentation Press:
Beijing, China, 1998; ISBN 7-5023-0922-5.
5.
Du, G.; Yao, F.; Cao, J.; Li, Y.; Li, F.; Jia, Q. Design of the artificial-assisted single-drive device for picking multi-fruit strawberries
of ridge cultivation. J. Mach. Des. 2020, 37, 19–23. [CrossRef]
6.
Yuan, P.; Zhu, X.; You, J.; Han, C.; Zhang, X.; Guo, H. Development of crankshaft vibration threshing and harvesting equipment
for wine grape. Trans. CSAE 2020, 36, 67–74. [CrossRef]
7.
Tai, K.; El-Sayed, A.-R.; Shahriari, M.; Biglarbegian, M.; Mahmud, S. State of the Art Robotic Grippers and Applications. Robotics
2016, 5, 11. [CrossRef]
8.
Brown, E.; Rodenberg, N.; Amend, J.; Mozeika, A.; Steltz, E.; Zakin, M.R.; Lipson, H.; Jaeger, H.M. Universal Robotic Gripper
Based on the Jamming of Granular Material. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2010, 107, 18809–18814. [CrossRef]
9.
Muscato, G.; Prestifilippo, M.; Abbate, N.; Rizzuto, I. A Prototype of an Orange Picking Robot: Past History, the New Robot and
Experimental Results. Ind. Robot 2005, 32, 128–138. [CrossRef]
10.
Clement, R.G.E.; Bugler, K.E.; Oliver, C.W. Bionic Prosthetic Hands: A Review of Present Technology and Future Aspirations.
Surgeon 2011, 9, 336–340. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
11.
Pettersson, A.; Davis, S.; Gray, J.O.; Dodd, T.J.; Ohlsson, T. Design of a Magnetorheological Robot Gripper for Handling of Delicate
Food Products with Varying Shapes. J. Food Eng. 2010, 98, 332–338. [CrossRef]
12.
Huang, S.; Wang, B.; Zhao, Z.; Wang, L.; Weng, L. Recognition of Magnetostrictive Tactile Sensor Array Applied to Manipulator.
Trans. China Electrotech. Soc. 2021, 36, 1416–1424. [CrossRef]
13.
Iñiguez-Moreno, M.; González-González, R.B.; Flores-Contreras, E.A.; Araújo, R.G.; Chen, W.N.; Alfaro-Ponce, M.; Iqbal,
H.M.N.; Melchor-Martínez, E.M.; Parra-Saldívar, R. Nano and Technological Frontiers as a Sustainable Platform for Postharvest
Preservation of Berry Fruits. Foods 2023, 12, 3159. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
14.
Zhang, B.; Xie, Y.; Zhou, J.; Wang, K.; Zhang, Z. State-of-the-Art Robotic Grippers, Grasping and Control Strategies, as Well as
Their Applications in Agricultural Robots: A Review. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2020, 177, 105694. [CrossRef]
15.
Jin, Y.; Liu, J.; Wang, J.; Xu, Z.; Yuan, Y. Far-near Combined Positioning of Picking-Point Based on Depth Data Features for
Horizontal-Trellis Cultivated Grape. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2022, 194, 106791. [CrossRef]
16.
Ma, L.; He, Z.; Zhu, Y.; Jia, L.; Wang, Y.; Ding, X.; Cui, Y. A Method of Grasping Detection for Kiwifruit Harvesting Robot Based
on Deep Learning. Agronomy 2022, 12, 3096. [CrossRef]
17.
Parsa, S.; Debnath, B.; Khan, M.A.; Amir, G.E. Modular Autonomous Strawberry Picking Robotic System. J. Field Robot. 2023,
1–21. [CrossRef]
18.
Tang, Q.; Liang, J.; Zhu, F. A Comparative Review on Multi-Modal Sensors Fusion Based on Deep Learning. Signal Process. 2023,
213, 109165. [CrossRef]
19.
Chlingaryan, A.; Sukkarieh, S.; Whelan, B. Machine Learning Approaches for Crop Yield Prediction and Nitrogen Status
Estimation in Precision Agriculture: A Review. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2018, 151, 61–69. [CrossRef]

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
37 of 42
20.
Van Henten, E.J.; Schenk, E.J.; Van Willigenburg, L.G.; Meuleman, J.; Barreiro, P. Collision-Free Inverse Kinematics of the
Redundant Seven-Link Manipulator Used in a Cucumber Picking Robot. Biosyst. Eng. 2010, 106, 112–124. [CrossRef]
21.
Ting, K.C.; Giacomelli, G.A.; Shen, S.J.; Kabala, W.P. Robot Workcell for Transplanting of Seedlings Part II—End-effector
Development. Trans. ASAE 1990, 33, 1013–1017. [CrossRef]
22.
Aqeel-ur-Rehman; Abbasi, A.Z.; Islam, N.; Shaikh, Z.A. A Review of Wireless Sensors and Networks’ Applications in Agriculture.
Comput. Stand. Interfaces 2014, 36, 263–270. [CrossRef]
23.
Bac, C.W.; van Henten, E.J.; Hemming, J.; Edan, Y. Harvesting Robots for High-value Crops: State-of-the-art Review and
Challenges Ahead. J. Field Robot. 2014, 31, 888–911. [CrossRef]
24.
Weiss, U.; Biber, P. Plant Detection and Mapping for Agricultural Robots Using a 3D LIDAR Sensor. Robot. Auton. Syst. 2011, 59,
265–273. [CrossRef]
25.
Fantoni, G.; Gabelloni, D.; Tilli, J. Concept Design of New Grippers Using Abstraction and Analogy. Proc. Inst. Mech. Eng. Part B:
J. Eng. Manuf. 2013, 227, 1521–1532. [CrossRef]
26.
Fantoni, G.; Santochi, M.; Dini, G.; Tracht, K.; Scholz-Reiter, B.; Fleischer, J.; Kristoffer Lien, T.; Seliger, G.; Reinhart, G.; Franke, J.;
et al. Grasping Devices and Methods in Automated Production Processes. CIRP Ann. 2014, 63, 679–701. [CrossRef]
27.
Williamson, J.G.; Cline, W.O. Mechanized Harvest of Southern Highbush Blueberries for the Fresh Market: An Introduction and
Overview of the Workshop Proceedings. HortTechnology 2013, 23, 416–418. [CrossRef]
28.
S, V.R.; Parsa, S.; Parsons, S.; E, A.G. Peduncle Gripping and Cutting Force for Strawberry Harvesting Robotic End-Effector Design.
In Proceedings of the 2022 4th International Conference on Control and Robotics (ICCR), Guangzhou, China, 2–4 December 2022;
IEEE: Piscataway, NJ, USA, 2022; pp. 59–64.
29.
Hayashi, S.; Shigematsu, K.; Yamamoto, S.; Kobayashi, K.; Kohno, Y.; Kamata, J.; Kurita, M. Evaluation of a Strawberry-Harvesting
Robot in a Field Test. Biosyst. Eng. 2010, 105, 160–171. [CrossRef]
30.
Aliasgarian, S.; Ghassemzadeh, H.R.; Moghaddam, M.; Ghaffari, H. Mechanical Damage Of Strawberry During Harvest And
Postharvest Operations. Acta Technol. Agric. 2015, 18, 1–5. [CrossRef]
31.
Kurpaska, S.; Sobol, Z.; Pedryc, N.; Hebda, T.; Nawara, P. Analysis of the Pneumatic System Parameters of the Suction Cup
Integrated with the Head for Harvesting Strawberry Fruit. Sensors 2020, 20, 4389. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
32.
Xiong, Y.; Peng, C.; Grimstad, L.; From, P.J.; Isler, V. Development and Field Evaluation of a Strawberry Harvesting Robot with a
Cable-Driven Gripper. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2019, 157, 392–402. [CrossRef]
33.
Nevliudov, I.; Novoselov, S.; Sychova, O.; Tesliuk, S. Development of the Architecture of the Base Platform Agricultural Robot
for Determining the Trajectory Using the Method of Visual Odometry. In Proceedings of the 2021 IEEE XVIIth International
Conference on the Perspective Technologies and Methods in MEMS Design (MEMSTECH), Polyana (Zakarpattya), Ukraine,
12–16 May 2021; IEEE: Piscataway, NJ, USA, 2021; pp. 64–68.
34.
Wang, J.; Luo, Z.; Wang, Y.; Yang, B.; Assadian, F. Coordination Control of Differential Drive Assist Steering and Vehicle Stability
Control for Four-Wheel-Independent-Drive EV. IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol. 2018, 67, 11453–11467. [CrossRef]
35.
De Santiago, J.; Bernhoff, H.; Ekergård, B.; Eriksson, S.; Ferhatovic, S.; Waters, R.; Leijon, M. Electrical Motor Drivelines in
Commercial All-Electric Vehicles: A Review. IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol. 2012, 61, 475–484. [CrossRef]
36.
Wu, X.; Xu, M.; Wang, L. Differential Speed Steering Control for Four-Wheel Independent Driving Electric Vehicle. In Proceedings
of the 2013 IEEE International Symposium on Industrial Electronics, Taipei, Taiwan, 28–31 May 2013; IEEE: Piscataway, NJ, USA,
2023; pp. 1–6.
37.
Veneri, M.; Massaro, M. The Effect of Ackermann Steering on the Performance of Race Cars. Veh. Syst. Dyn. 2021, 59, 907–927.
[CrossRef]
38.
Xu, T.; Ma, S.; Xu, H.; Mo, S.; Li, Y. Application of Ackermann Steering in Obstacle Crossing Platform of Six-Wheeled Robots. In
Proceedings of the 2023 2nd International Symposium on Control Engineering and Robotics (ISCER), Hangzhou, China, 17–19
October 2023; IEEE: Piscataway, NJ, USA, 2023; pp. 239–243.
39.
Simionescu, P.A.; Beale, D. Optimum Synthesis of the Four-Bar Function Generator in Its Symmetric Embodiment: The Ackermann
Steering Linkage. Mech. Mach. Theory 2002, 37, 1487–1504. [CrossRef]
40.
Zhao, J.-S.; Liu, X.; Feng, Z.-J.; Dai, J.S. Design of an Ackermann-Type Steering Mechanism. Proc. Inst. Mech. Eng. Part C: J. Mech.
Eng. Sci. 2013, 227, 2549–2562. [CrossRef]
41.
Kuslits, M.; Bestle, D. Modelling and Control of a New Differential Steering Concept. Veh. Syst. Dyn. 2019, 57, 520–542. [CrossRef]
42.
Gfrerrer, A. Geometry and Kinematics of the Mecanum Wheel. Comput. Aided Geom. Des. 2008, 25, 784–791. [CrossRef]
43.
Dickerson, S.L.; Lapin, B.D. Control of an Omni-Directional Robotic Vehicle with Mecanum Wheels. In Proceedings of the
NTC ’91—National Telesystems Conference Proceedings, Atlanta, GA, USA, 26–27 March 1991; IEEE: Atlanta, GA, USA, 1991;
pp. 323–328.
44.
Hryniewicz, P.; Gwiazda, A.; Bana´s, W.; S˛ekala, A.; Foit, K. Modelling of a Mecanum Wheel Taking into Account the Geometry of
Road Rollers. IOP Conf. Ser. Mater. Sci. Eng. 2017, 227, 012060. [CrossRef]
45.
Ben-Tzvi, P.; Saab, W. A Hybrid Tracked-Wheeled Multi-Directional Mobile Robot. J. Mech. Robot. 2019, 11, 041008. [CrossRef]
46.
Sun, Y.; Xu, L.; Jing, B.; Chai, X.; Li, Y. Development of a Four-Point Adjustable Lifting Crawler Chassis and Experiments in a
Combine Harvester. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2020, 173, 105416. [CrossRef]
47.
Tinoco, V.; Silva, M.F.; Santos, F.N.; Valente, A.; Rocha, L.F.; Magalhães, S.A.; Santos, L.C. An Overview of Pruning and Harvesting
Manipulators. IR 2022, 49, 688–695. [CrossRef]

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
38 of 42
48.
Lu, J.; Zou, T.; Jiang, X. A Neural Network Based Approach to Inverse Kinematics Problem for General Six-Axis Robots. Sensors
2022, 22, 8909. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
49.
Boryga, M.; Kołodziej, P.; Grabo´s, A.; Gołacki, K. Mapping Accuracy of Trajectories of Manipulator Motion. ITM Web Conf. 2018,
21, 00009. [CrossRef]
50.
Kucuk, S.; Bingul, Z. Robot Kinematics: Forward and Inverse Kinematics. In Industrial Robotics: Theory, Modelling and Control;
Cubero, S., Ed.; Pro Literatur Verlag: Berlin, Germany; ARS: Linz, Austria, 2006; ISBN 978-3-86611-285-8.
51.
Ames, B.; Morgan, J.; Konidaris, G. IKFlow: Generating Diverse Inverse Kinematics Solutions. IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett. 2022, 7,
7177–7184. [CrossRef]
52.
Fang, G.; Tian, Y.; Yang, Z.-X.; Geraedts, J.M.P.; Wang, C.C.L. Efficient Jacobian-Based Inverse Kinematics with Sim-to-Real
Transfer of Soft Robots by Learning. IEEE/ASME Trans. Mechatron. 2022, 27, 5296–5306. [CrossRef]
53.
Marconi, G.M.; Camoriano, R.; Rosasco, L.; Ciliberto, C. Structured Prediction for CRiSP Inverse Kinematics Learning with
Misspecified Robot Models. IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett. 2021, 6, 5650–5657. [CrossRef]
54.
Zhao, G.; Jiang, D.; Liu, X.; Tong, X.; Sun, Y.; Tao, B.; Kong, J.; Yun, J.; Liu, Y.; Fang, Z. A Tandem Robotic Arm Inverse Kinematic
Solution Based on an Improved Particle Swarm Algorithm. Front. Bioeng. Biotechnol. 2022, 10, 832829. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
55.
Pfeiffer, F.; Johanni, R. A Concept for Manipulator Trajectory Planning. IEEE J. Robot. Autom. 1987, 3, 115–123. [CrossRef]
56.
Luh, J.; Walker, M.; Paul, R. Resolved-Acceleration Control of Mechanical Manipulators. IEEE Trans. Automat. Contr. 1980, 25,
468–474. [CrossRef]
57.
Meng, F.; Li, J.; Zhang, Y.; Qi, S.; Tang, Y. Transforming Unmanned Pineapple Picking with Spatio-Temporal Convolutional
Neural Networks. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2023, 214, 108298. [CrossRef]
58.
Dimeas, F.; Sako, D.V.; Moulianitis, V.C.; Aspragathos, N.A. Design and Fuzzy Control of a Robotic Gripper for Efficient
Strawberry Harvesting. Robotica 2014, 33, 1085–1098. [CrossRef]
59.
Gunderman, A.; Collins, J.; Myers, A.; Threlfall, R.; Chen, Y. Tendon-Driven Soft Robotic Gripper for Blackberry Harvesting. IEEE
Robot. Autom. Lett. 2022, 7, 2652–2659. [CrossRef]
60.
Zhang, Y.; Zhang, K.; Yang, L.; Zhang, D.; Cui, T.; Yu, Y.; Liu, H. Design and Simulation Experiment of Ridge Planting Strawberry
Picking Manipulator. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2023, 208, 107690. [CrossRef]
61.
Feng, Q.; Chen, J.; Zhang, M.; Wang, X. Design and Test of Harvesting Robot for Table-Top Cultivated Strawberry. In Proceedings
of the 2019 WRC Symposium on Advanced Robotics and Automation (WRC SARA), Beijing, China, 21–22 August 2019; IEEE:
Piscataway, NJ, USA, 2019; pp. 80–85.
62.
Williams, H.; Ting, C.; Nejati, M.; Jones, M.H.; Penhall, N.; Lim, J.; Seabright, M.; Bell, J.; Ahn, H.S.; Scarfe, A.; et al. Improvements
to and Large-scale Evaluation of a Robotic Kiwifruit Harvester. J. Field Robot. 2020, 37, 187–201. [CrossRef]
63.
Carbone, G. (Ed.) Grasping in Robotics; Mechanisms and Machine Science; Springer: London, UK, 2013; Volume 10, ISBN 978-1-
4471-4663-6.
64.
Li, H.; Gu, Z.; He, D.; Wang, X.; Huang, J.; Mo, Y.; Li, P.; Huang, Z.; Wu, F. A Lightweight Improved YOLOv5s Model and Its
Deployment for Detecting Pitaya Fruits in Daytime and Nighttime Light-Supplement Environments. Comput. Electron. Agric.
2024, 220, 108914. [CrossRef]
65.
Bello, R.-W.; Oladipo, M.A. Mask YOLOv7-Based Drone Vision System for Automated Cattle Detection and Counting. AIA 2024,
2, 129–139. [CrossRef]
66.
Chen, L.; Li, S.; Bai, Q.; Yang, J.; Jiang, S.; Miao, Y. Review of Image Classification Algorithms Based on Convolutional Neural
Networks. Remote Sens. 2021, 13, 4712. [CrossRef]
67.
Russakovsky, O.; Deng, J.; Su, H.; Krause, J.; Satheesh, S.; Ma, S.; Huang, Z.; Karpathy, A.; Khosla, A.; Bernstein, M.; et al.
ImageNet Large Scale Visual Recognition Challenge. Int. J. Comput. Vis. 2015, 115, 211–252. [CrossRef]
68.
Hafiz, A.M.; Bhat, G.M. A Survey on Instance Segmentation: State of the Art. Int. J. Multimed. Info. Retr. 2020, 9, 171–189.
[CrossRef]
69.
Kim, D.-H.; Lu, N.; Ghaffari, R.; Kim, Y.-S.; Lee, S.P.; Xu, L.; Wu, J.; Kim, R.-H.; Song, J.; Liu, Z.; et al. Materials for Multifunctional
Balloon Catheters with Capabilities in Cardiac Electrophysiological Mapping and Ablation Therapy. Nat. Mater. 2011, 10, 316–323.
[CrossRef] [PubMed]
70.
Lee, M.H.; Nicholls, H.R. Review Article Tactile Sensing for Mechatronics—A State of the Art Survey. Mechatronics 1999, 9, 1–31.
[CrossRef]
71.
Qu, J.; Mao, B.; Li, Z.; Xu, Y.; Zhou, K.; Cao, X.; Fan, Q.; Xu, M.; Liang, B.; Liu, H.; et al. Recent Progress in Advanced Tactile
Sensing Technologies for Soft Grippers. Adv. Funct. Mater. 2023, 33, 2306249. [CrossRef]
72.
Dargahi, J.; Najarian, S. Advances in Tactile Sensors Design/Manufacturing and Its Impact on Robotics Applications—A Review.
Ind. Robot 2005, 32, 268–281. [CrossRef]
73.
Sam, R.; Nefti, S. Design and Development of Flexible Robotic Gripper for Handling Food Products. In Proceedings of the
2008 10th International Conference on Control, Automation, Robotics and Vision, Hanoi, Vietnam, 17–20 December 2008; IEEE:
Piscataway, NJ, USA, 2008; pp. 1684–1689.
74.
Shi, J.; Wang, L.; Dai, Z.; Zhao, L.; Du, M.; Li, H.; Fang, Y. Multiscale Hierarchical Design of a Flexible Piezoresistive Pressure
Sensor with High Sensitivity and Wide Linearity Range. Small 2018, 14, 1800819. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
75.
Cao, M.; Su, J.; Fan, S.; Qiu, H.; Su, D.; Li, L. Wearable Piezoresistive Pressure Sensors Based on 3D Graphene. Chem. Eng. J. 2021,
406, 126777. [CrossRef]

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
39 of 42
76.
Yang, T.; Deng, W.; Chu, X.; Wang, X.; Hu, Y.; Fan, X.; Song, J.; Gao, Y.; Zhang, B.; Tian, G.; et al. Hierarchically Microstructure-
Bioinspired Flexible Piezoresistive Bioelectronics. ACS Nano 2021, 15, 11555–11563. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
77.
Hwang, J.; Kim, Y.; Yang, H.; Oh, J.H. Fabrication of Hierarchically Porous Structured PDMS Composites and Their Application
as a Flexible Capacitive Pressure Sensor. Compos. Part B Eng. 2021, 211, 108607. [CrossRef]
78.
Yang, J.C.; Kim, J.-O.; Oh, J.; Kwon, S.Y.; Sim, J.Y.; Kim, D.W.; Choi, H.B.; Park, S. Microstructured Porous Pyramid-Based
Ultrahigh Sensitive Pressure Sensor Insensitive to Strain and Temperature. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2019, 11, 19472–19480.
[CrossRef] [PubMed]
79.
Yang, J.; Luo, S.; Zhou, X.; Li, J.; Fu, J.; Yang, W.; Wei, D. Flexible, Tunable, and Ultrasensitive Capacitive Pressure Sensor with
Microconformal Graphene Electrodes. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2019, 11, 14997–15006. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
80.
Lin, W.; Wang, B.; Peng, G.; Shan, Y.; Hu, H.; Yang, Z. Skin-Inspired Piezoelectric Tactile Sensor Array with Crosstalk-Free
Row+Column Electrodes for Spatiotemporally Distinguishing Diverse Stimuli. Adv. Sci. 2021, 8, 2002817. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
81.
Peng, Y.; Que, M.; Lee, H.E.; Bao, R.; Wang, X.; Lu, J.; Yuan, Z.; Li, X.; Tao, J.; Sun, J.; et al. Achieving High-Resolution Pressure
Mapping via Flexible GaN/ ZnO Nanowire LEDs Array by Piezo-Phototronic Effect. Nano Energy 2019, 58, 633–640. [CrossRef]
82.
Wang, X.; Zhang, H.; Yu, R.; Dong, L.; Peng, D.; Zhang, A.; Zhang, Y.; Liu, H.; Pan, C.; Wang, Z.L. Dynamic Pressure Mapping
of Personalized Handwriting by a Flexible Sensor Matrix Based on the Mechanoluminescence Process. Adv. Mater. 2015, 27,
2324–2331. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
83.
Wang, X.; Zhang, H.; Dong, L.; Han, X.; Du, W.; Zhai, J.; Pan, C.; Wang, Z.L. Self-Powered High-Resolution and Pressure-Sensitive
Triboelectric Sensor Matrix for Real-Time Tactile Mapping. Adv. Mater. 2016, 28, 2896–2903. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
84.
Wang, L.; Liu, Y.; Liu, Q.; Zhu, Y.; Wang, H.; Xie, Z.; Yu, X.; Zi, Y. A Metal-Electrode-Free, Fully Integrated, Soft Triboelectric
Sensor Array for Self-Powered Tactile Sensing. Microsyst. Nanoeng. 2020, 6, 59. [CrossRef]
85.
Wang, X.; Zhang, Y.; Zhang, X.; Huo, Z.; Li, X.; Que, M.; Peng, Z.; Wang, H.; Pan, C. A Highly Stretchable Transparent Self-Powered
Triboelectric Tactile Sensor with Metallized Nanofibers for Wearable Electronics. Adv. Mater. 2018, 30, 1706738. [CrossRef]
[PubMed]
86.
Pang, C. A Flexible and Highly Sensitive Strain-Gauge Sensor Using Reversible Interlocking of Nanofibres. Nat. Mater. 2012, 11,
795–801. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
87.
Tiwana, M.I.; Redmond, S.J.; Lovell, N.H. A Review of Tactile Sensing Technologies with Applications in Biomedical Engineering.
Sens. Actuators A Phys. 2012, 179, 17–31. [CrossRef]
88.
Duan, Y.; He, S.; Wu, J.; Su, B.; Wang, Y. Recent Progress in Flexible Pressure Sensor Arrays. Nanomaterials 2022, 12, 2495.
[CrossRef] [PubMed]
89.
Gao, Y.; Xiao, T.; Li, Q.; Chen, Y.; Qiu, X.; Liu, J.; Bian, Y.; Xuan, F. Flexible Microstructured Pressure Sensors: Design, Fabrication
and Applications. Nanotechnology 2022, 33, 322002. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
90.
Mishra, R.B.; El-Atab, N.; Hussain, A.M.; Hussain, M.M. Recent Progress on Flexible Capacitive Pressure Sensors: From Design
and Materials to Applications. Adv. Mater. Technol. 2021, 6, 2001023. [CrossRef]
91.
Hammock, M.L.; Chortos, A.; Tee, B.C.-K.; Tok, J.B.-H.; Bao, Z. 25th Anniversary Article: The Evolution of Electronic Skin (E-Skin):
A Brief History, Design Considerations, and Recent Progress. Adv. Mater. 2013, 25, 5997–6038. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
92.
Peng, Y.; Yang, N.; Xu, Q.; Dai, Y.; Wang, Z. Recent Advances in Flexible Tactile Sensors for Intelligent Systems. Sensors 2021,
21, 5392. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
93.
Zhou, K.; Zhao, Y.; Sun, X.; Yuan, Z.; Zheng, G.; Dai, K.; Mi, L.; Pan, C.; Liu, C.; Shen, C. Ultra-Stretchable Triboelectric
Nanogenerator as High-Sensitive and Self-Powered Electronic Skins for Energy Harvesting and Tactile Sensing. Nano Energy
2020, 70, 104546. [CrossRef]
94.
Benet, G.; Blanes, F.; Simó, J.E.; Pérez, P. Using Infrared Sensors for Distance Measurement in Mobile Robots. Robot. Auton. Syst.
2002, 40, 255–266. [CrossRef]
95.
Abbas, I.; Liu, J.; Faheem, M.; Noor, R.S.; Shaikh, S.A.; Solangi, K.A.; Raza, S.M. Different Sensor Based Intelligent Spraying
Systems in Agriculture. Sens. Actuators A Phys. 2020, 316, 112265. [CrossRef]
96.
Hauptmann, P.; Hoppe, N.; Püttmer, A. Application of Ultrasonic Sensors in the Process Industry. Meas. Sci. Technol. 2002, 13,
R73–R83. [CrossRef]
97.
Jiang, Q.; Zhang, M.; Xu, B. Application of Ultrasonic Technology in Postharvested Fruits and Vegetables Storage: A Review.
Ultrason. Sonochem. 2020, 69, 105261. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
98.
Li, N.; Ho, C.P.; Xue, J.; Lim, L.W.; Chen, G.; Fu, Y.H.; Lee, L.Y.T. A Progress Review on Solid-State LiDAR and Nano-photonics-
Based LiDAR Sensors. Laser Photonics Rev. 2022, 16, 2100511. [CrossRef]
99.
Wang, J.; Chortos, A. Control Strategies for Soft Robot Systems. Adv. Intell. Syst. 2022, 4, 2100165. [CrossRef]
100. Li, P.; Liu, X. Common Sensors in Industrial Robots: A Review. J. Phys. Conf. Ser. 2019, 1267, 012036. [CrossRef]
101. Apneseth, C.; Dzung, D.; Kjesbu, S.; Scheible, G.; Zimmermann, W. Wireless—Introducing Wireless Proximity Switches. Sens. Rev.
2003, 23, 116–122. [CrossRef]
102. Monkman, G.J.; Hesse, S.; Steinmann, R.; Schunk, H. Robot Grippers, 1st ed.; Wiley: Hoboken, NJ, USA, 2006; ISBN 978-3-527-
40619-7.
103. Pallay, M.; Miles, R.N.; Towfighian, S. A Tunable Electrostatic MEMS Pressure Switch. IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 2020, 67,
9833–9840. [CrossRef]

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
40 of 42
104. An, Q.; Wang, K.; Li, Z.; Song, C.; Tang, X.; Song, J. Real-Time Monitoring Method of Strawberry Fruit Growth State Based on
YOLO Improved Model. IEEE Access 2022, 10, 124363–124372. [CrossRef]
105. Chen, J.; Wang, Z.; Wu, J.; Hu, Q.; Zhao, C.; Tan, C.; Teng, L.; Luo, T. An Improved Yolov3 Based on Dual Path Network for
Cherry Tomatoes Detection. J Food Process Eng. 2021, 44, e13803. [CrossRef]
106. Gai, R.; Chen, N.; Yuan, H. A Detection Algorithm for Cherry Fruits Based on the Improved YOLO-v4 Model. Neural Comput.
Appl. 2023, 35, 13895–13906. [CrossRef]
107. Yang, W.; Ma, X.; Hu, W.; Tang, P. Lightweight Blueberry Fruit Recognition Based on Multi-Scale and Attention Fusion NCBAM.
Agronomy 2022, 12, 2354. [CrossRef]
108. Fan, Y.; Zhang, S.; Feng, K.; Qian, K.; Wang, Y.; Qin, S. Strawberry Maturity Recognition Algorithm Combining Dark Channel
Enhancement and YOLOv5. Sensors 2022, 22, 419. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
109. Habaragamuwa, H.; Ogawa, Y.; Suzuki, T.; Shiigi, T.; Ono, M.; Kondo, N. Detecting Greenhouse Strawberries (Mature and
Immature), Using Deep Convolutional Neural Network. Eng. Agric. Environ. Food 2018, 11, 127–138. [CrossRef]
110. Liu, G.; Nouaze, J.C.; Touko Mbouembe, P.L.; Kim, J.H. YOLO-Tomato: A Robust Algorithm for Tomato Detection Based on
YOLOv3. Sensors 2020, 20, 2145. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
111. Lawal, M.O. Tomato Detection Based on Modified YOLOv3 Framework. Sci. Rep. 2021, 11, 1447. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
112. Yu, Y.; Zhang, K.; Liu, H.; Yang, L.; Zhang, D. Real-Time Visual Localization of the Picking Points for a Ridge-Planting Strawberry
Harvesting Robot. IEEE Access 2020, 8, 116556–116568. [CrossRef]
113. Fu, L.; Feng, Y.; Wu, J.; Liu, Z.; Gao, F.; Majeed, Y.; Al-Mallahi, A.; Zhang, Q.; Li, R.; Cui, Y. Fast and Accurate Detection of
Kiwifruit in Orchard Using Improved YOLOv3-Tiny Model. Precis. Agric. 2021, 22, 754–776. [CrossRef]
114. Zabawa, L.; Kicherer, A.; Klingbeil, L.; Milioto, A.; Topfer, R.; Kuhlmann, H.; Roscher, R. Detection of Single Grapevine Berries in
Images Using Fully Convolutional Neural Networks. In Proceedings of the 2019 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition Workshops (CVPRW), Long Beach, CA, USA, 16–17 June 2019; IEEE: Piscataway, NJ, USA, 2019;
pp. 2571–2579.
115. Rong, Q.; Hu, C.; Hu, X.; Xu, M. Picking Point Recognition for Ripe Tomatoes Using Semantic Segmentation and Morphological
Processing. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2023, 210, 107923. [CrossRef]
116. Tang, C.; Chen, D.; Wang, X.; Ni, X.; Liu, Y.; Liu, Y.; Mao, X.; Wang, S. A Fine Recognition Method of Strawberry Ripeness
Combining Mask R-CNN and Region Segmentation. Front. Plant Sci. 2023, 14, 1211830. [CrossRef]
117. Peng, Y.; Wang, A.; Liu, J.; Faheem, M. A Comparative Study of Semantic Segmentation Models for Identification of Grape with
Different Varieties. Agriculture 2021, 11, 997. [CrossRef]
118. Ilyas, T.; Umraiz, M.; Khan, A.; Kim, H. DAM: Hierarchical Adaptive Feature Selection Using Convolution Encoder Decoder
Network for Strawberry Segmentation. Front. Plant Sci. 2021, 12, 591333. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
119. Roscher, R.; Herzog, K.; Kunkel, A.; Kicherer, A.; Töpfer, R.; Förstner, W. Automated Image Analysis Framework for High-
Throughput Determination of Grapevine Berry Sizes Using Conditional Random Fields. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2014, 100,
148–158. [CrossRef]
120. Milella, A. In-Field High Throughput Grapevine Phenotyping with a Consumer-Grade Depth Camera. Comput. Electron. Agric.
2019, 156, 293–306. [CrossRef]
121. Wang, C.; Yang, G.; Huang, Y.; Liu, Y.; Zhang, Y. A Transformer-Based Mask R-CNN for Tomato Detection and Segmentation. IFS
2023, 44, 8585–8595. [CrossRef]
122. Lei, H.; Huang, K.; Jiao, Z.; Tang, Y.; Zhong, Z.; Cai, Y. Bayberry Segmentation in a Complex Environment Based on a Multi-
Module Convolutional Neural Network. Appl. Soft Comput. 2022, 119, 108556. [CrossRef]
123. Zabawa, L.; Kicherer, A.; Klingbeil, L.; Töpfer, R.; Kuhlmann, H.; Roscher, R. Counting of Grapevine Berries in Images via
Semantic Segmentation Using Convolutional Neural Networks. ISPRS J. Photogramm. Remote Sens. 2020, 164, 73–83. [CrossRef]
124. Gonzalez, S.; Arellano, C.; Tapia, J.E. Deepblueberry: Quantification of Blueberries in the Wild Using Instance Segmentation.
IEEE Access 2019, 7, 105776–105788. [CrossRef]
125. Ni, X.; Li, C.; Jiang, H.; Takeda, F. Deep Learning Image Segmentation and Extraction of Blueberry Fruit Traits Associated with
Harvestability and Yield. Hortic. Res. 2020, 7, 110. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
126. Chen, Y.; Li, X.; Jia, M.; Li, J.; Hu, T.; Luo, J. Instance Segmentation and Number Counting of Grape Berry Images Based on Deep
Learning. Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 6751. [CrossRef]
127. Wang, Y.; Lv, J.; Xu, L.; Gu, Y.; Zou, L.; Ma, Z. A Segmentation Method for Waxberry Image under Orchard Environment. Sci.
Hortic. 2020, 266, 109309. [CrossRef]
128. Luo, L.; Liu, W.; Lu, Q.; Wang, J.; Wen, W.; Yan, D.; Tang, Y. Grape Berry Detection and Size Measurement Based on Edge Image
Processing and Geometric Morphology. Machines 2021, 9, 233. [CrossRef]
129. Cai, C.; Tan, J.; Zhang, P.; Ye, Y.; Zhang, J. Determining Strawberries’ Varying Maturity Levels by Utilizing Image Segmentation
Methods of Improved DeepLabV3+. Agronomy 2022, 12, 1875. [CrossRef]
130. Xu, P.; Fang, N.; Liu, N.; Lin, F.; Yang, S.; Ning, J. Visual Recognition of Cherry Tomatoes in Plant Factory Based on Improved
Deep Instance Segmentation. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2022, 197, 106991. [CrossRef]
131. Pérez-Borrero, I.; Marín-Santos, D.; Gegúndez-Arias, M.E.; Cortés-Ancos, E. A Fast and Accurate Deep Learning Method for
Strawberry Instance Segmentation. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2020, 178, 105736. [CrossRef]

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
41 of 42
132. Hu, H.; Kaizu, Y.; Zhang, H.; Xu, Y.; Imou, K.; Li, M.; Huang, J.; Dai, S. Recognition and Localization of Strawberries from 3D
Binocular Cameras for a Strawberry Picking Robot Using Coupled YOLO/Mask R-CNN. Int. J. Agric. Biol. Eng. 2022, 15, 175–179.
[CrossRef]
133. Afzaal, U.; Bhattarai, B.; Pandeya, Y.R.; Lee, J. An Instance Segmentation Model for Strawberry Diseases Based on Mask R-CNN.
Sensors 2021, 21, 6565. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
134. Mo, Y.; Wu, Y.; Yang, X.; Liu, F.; Liao, Y. Review the State-of-the-Art Technologies of Semantic Segmentation Based on Deep
Learning. Neurocomputing 2022, 493, 626–646. [CrossRef]
135. Gu, W.; Bai, S.; Kong, L. A Review on 2D Instance Segmentation Based on Deep Neural Networks. Image Vis. Comput. 2022,
120, 104401. [CrossRef]
136. Li, Y.; Chen, Y.; Li, Y. Pre-Charged Pneumatic Soft Gripper with Closed-Loop Control. IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett. 2019, 4, 1402–1408.
[CrossRef]
137. Ruotolo, W.; Brouwer, D.; Cutkosky, M.R. From Grasping to Manipulation with Gecko-Inspired Adhesives on a Multifinger
Gripper. Sci. Robot. 2021, 6, eabi9773. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
138. Visentin, F.; Castellini, F.; Muradore, R. A Soft, Sensorized Gripper for Delicate Harvesting of Small Fruits. Comput. Electron.
Agric. 2023, 213, 108202. [CrossRef]
139. Jin, L.; Wang, Z.; Tian, S.; Feng, J.; An, C.; Xu, H. Grasping Perception and Prediction Model of Kiwifruit Firmness Based on
Flexible Sensing Claw. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2023, 215, 108389. [CrossRef]
140. Lehnert, C.; McCool, C.; Sa, I.; Perez, T. Performance Improvements of a Sweet Pepper Harvesting Robot in Protected Cropping
Environments. J. Field Robot. 2020, 37, 1197–1223. [CrossRef]
141. Min, Y.; Kim, Y.; Jin, H.; Kim, H.J. Intelligent Gripper Systems Using Air Gap-Controlled Bimodal Tactile Sensors for Deformable
Object Classification. Adv. Intell. Syst. 2023, 5, 2300317. [CrossRef]
142. Shih, B.; Christianson, C.; Gillespie, K.; Lee, S.; Mayeda, J.; Huo, Z.; Tolley, M.T. Design Considerations for 3D Printed, Soft,
Multimaterial Resistive Sensors for Soft Robotics. Front. Robot. AI 2019, 6, 30. [CrossRef]
143. Yoder, Z.; Macari, D.; Kleinwaks, G.; Schmidt, I.; Acome, E.; Keplinger, C. A Soft, Fast and Versatile Electrohydraulic Gripper
with Capacitive Object Size Detection. Adv. Funct. Mater. 2023, 33, 2209080. [CrossRef]
144. Hu, Z.; Chu, Z.; Chen, G.; Cui, J. Design of Capacitive Pressure Sensors Integrated with Anisotropic Wedge Microstructure-Based
Dielectric Layer. IEEE Sens. J. 2023, 23, 21040–21049. [CrossRef]
145. Fastier-Wooller, J.W.; Vu, T.-H.; Nguyen, H.; Nguyen, H.-Q.; Rybachuk, M.; Zhu, Y.; Dao, D.V.; Dau, V.T. Multimodal Fibrous
Static and Dynamic Tactile Sensor. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2022, 14, 27317–27327. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
146. Qiu, Y.; Sun, S.; Wang, X.; Shi, K.; Wang, Z.; Ma, X.; Zhang, W.; Bao, G.; Tian, Y.; Zhang, Z.; et al. Nondestructive Identification of
Softness via Bioinspired Multisensory Electronic Skins Integrated on a Robotic Hand. NPJ Flex. Electron. 2022, 6, 45. [CrossRef]
147. Chen, S.; Pang, Y.; Yuan, H.; Tan, X.; Cao, C. Smart Soft Actuators and Grippers Enabled by Self-Powered Tribo-Skins. Adv. Mater.
Technol. 2020, 5, 1901075. [CrossRef]
148. Li, N.; Yin, Z.; Zhang, W.; Xing, C.; Peng, T.; Meng, B.; Yang, J.; Peng, Z. A Triboelectric-Inductive Hybrid Tactile Sensor for Highly
Accurate Object Recognition. Nano Energy 2022, 96, 107063. [CrossRef]
149. Xu, J.; Xie, Z.; Yue, H.; Lu, Y.; Yang, F. A Triboelectric Multifunctional Sensor Based on the Controlled Buckling Structure for
Motion Monitoring and Bionic Tactile of Soft Robots. Nano Energy 2022, 104, 107845. [CrossRef]
150. Amjadi, M.; Kyung, K.; Park, I.; Sitti, M. Stretchable, Skin-Mountable, and Wearable Strain Sensors and Their Potential Applica-
tions: A Review. Adv. Funct. Mater. 2016, 26, 1678–1698. [CrossRef]
151. Trung, T.Q.; Lee, N. Flexible and Stretchable Physical Sensor Integrated Platforms for Wearable Human-Activity Monitoringand
Personal Healthcare. Adv. Mater. 2016, 28, 4338–4372. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
152. Li, J.; Fang, L.; Sun, B.; Li, X.; Kang, S.H. Review—Recent Progress in Flexible and Stretchable Piezoresistive Sensors and Their
Applications. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2020, 167, 037561. [CrossRef]
153. Hannigan, B.C.; Cuthbert, T.J.; Geng, W.; Tavassolian, M.; Menon, C. Understanding the Impact of Machine Learning Models on
the Performance of Different Flexible Strain Sensor Modalities. Front. Mater. 2021, 8, 639823. [CrossRef]
154. Kim, K.; Kim, J.; Jiang, X.; Kim, T. Static Force Measurement Using Piezoelectric Sensors. J. Sens. 2021, 2021, 1–8. [CrossRef]
155. Wu, C.; Wang, A.C.; Ding, W.; Guo, H.; Wang, Z.L. Triboelectric Nanogenerator: A Foundation of the Energy for the New Era.
Adv. Energy Mater. 2019, 9, 1802906. [CrossRef]
156. Song, C.; Wang, K.; Wang, C.; Tian, Y.; Wei, X.; Li, C.; An, Q.; Song, J. TDPPL-Net: A Lightweight Real-Time Tomato Detection
and Picking Point Localization Model for Harvesting Robots. IEEE Access 2023, 11, 37650–37664. [CrossRef]
157. Zhu, Y.; Zhang, T.; Liu, L.; Liu, P.; Li, X. Fast Location of Table Grapes Picking Point Based on Infrared Tube. Inventions 2022, 7, 27.
[CrossRef]
158. Mejia, G.; Montes De Oca, A.; Flores, G. Strawberry Localization in a Ridge Planting with an Autonomous Rover. Eng. Appl. Artif.
Intell. 2023, 119, 105810. [CrossRef]
159. Gao, J.; Zhang, F.; Zhang, J.; Yuan, T.; Yin, J.; Guo, H.; Yang, C. Development and Evaluation of a Pneumatic Finger-like
End-Effector for Cherry Tomato Harvesting Robot in Greenhouse. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2022, 197, 106879. [CrossRef]
160. Ren, G.; Wu, H.; Bao, A.; Lin, T.; Ting, K.-C.; Ying, Y. Mobile Robotics Platform for Strawberry Temporal–Spatial Yield Monitoring
within Precision Indoor Farming Systems. Front. Plant Sci. 2023, 14, 1162435. [CrossRef] [PubMed]

Agriculture 2024, 14, 1346
42 of 42
161. Rapado-Rincón, D.; Van Henten, E.J.; Kootstra, G. Development and Evaluation of Automated Localisation and Reconstruction of
All Fruits on Tomato Plants in a Greenhouse Based on Multi-View Perception and 3D Multi-Object Tracking. Biosyst. Eng. 2023,
231, 78–91. [CrossRef]
162. Miao, Z.; Yu, X.; Li, N.; Zhang, Z.; He, C.; Li, Z.; Deng, C.; Sun, T. Efficient Tomato Harvesting Robot Based on Image Processing
and Deep Learning. Precis. Agric 2023, 24, 254–287. [CrossRef]
163. Kishore, C.S.; Qamar, U.Z.; Arnold, W.S.; David, C. Percival Detecting Weed and Bare-Spot in Wild Blueberry Using Ultrasonic
Sensor Technology. In Proceedings of the 2009 ASABE Annual International Meeting, Reno, NV, USA, 21–24 June 2009; American
Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers: St. Joseph, MI, USA, 2009; p. 096879.
164. Martínez-Guanter, J.; Garrido-Izard, M.; Valero, C.; Slaughter, D.; Pérez-Ruiz, M. Optical Sensing to Determine Tomato Plant
Spacing for Precise Agrochemical Application: Two Scenarios. Sensors 2017, 17, 1096. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
165. Wang, D.; Dong, Y.; Lian, J.; Gu, D. Adaptive End-effector Pose Control for Tomato Harvesting Robots. J. Field Robot. 2023, 40,
535–551. [CrossRef]
166. Popa, D.; Udrea, F. Towards Integrated Mid-Infrared Gas Sensors. Sensors 2019, 19, 2076. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
167. Tang, Y.; Qi, S.; Zhu, L.; Zhuo, X.; Zhang, Y.; Meng, F. Obstacle Avoidance Motion in Mobile Robotics. J. Syst. Simul. 2024, 36, 1.
168. Dalla Mura, M.; Prasad, S.; Pacifici, F.; Gamba, P.; Chanussot, J.; Benediktsson, J.A. Challenges and Opportunities of Multimodality
and Data Fusion in Remote Sensing. Proc. IEEE 2015, 103, 1585–1601. [CrossRef]
169. Navas, E.; Shamshiri, R.R.; Dworak, V.; Weltzien, C.; Fernández, R. Soft Gripper for Small Fruits Harvesting and Pick and Place
Operations. Front. Robot. AI 2024, 10, 1330496. [CrossRef]
170. Li, Z.; Yuan, X.; Yang, Z. Design, Simulation, and Experiment for the End Effector of a Spherical Fruit Picking Robot. Int. J. Adv.
Robot. Syst. 2023, 20, 17298806231213442. [CrossRef]
171. Mu, L.; Cui, G.; Liu, Y.; Cui, Y.; Fu, L.; Gejima, Y. Design and Simulation of an Integrated End-Effector for Picking Kiwifruit by
Robot. Inf. Process. Agric. 2020, 7, 58–71. [CrossRef]
172. Fu, M.; Guo, S.; Chen, A.; Cheng, R.; Cui, X. Design and Experimentation of Multi-Fruit Envelope-Cutting Kiwifruit Picking
Robot. Front. Plant Sci. 2024, 15, 1338050. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
173. Kumar Uppalapati, N.; Walt, B.; Havens, A.; Mahdian, A.; Chowdhary, G.; Krishnan, G. A Berry Picking Robot with A Hybrid
Soft-Rigid Arm: Design and Task Space Control. In Proceedings of the Robotics: Science and Systems XVI, Virtual, 12–16 July
2020; Robotics: Science and Systems Foundation: Delft, The Netherlands, 2020.
174. Chappell, D.; Bello, F.; Kormushev, P.; Rojas, N. The Hydra Hand: A Mode-Switching Underactuated Gripper with Precision and
Power Grasping Modes. IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett. 2023, 8, 7599–7606. [CrossRef]
175. Zhang, B.; Zhou, J.; Meng, Y.; Zhang, N.; Gu, B.; Yan, Z.; Idris, S.I. Comparative Study of Mechanical Damage Caused by a
Two-Finger Tomato Gripper with Different Robotic Grasping Patterns for Harvesting Robots. Biosyst. Eng. 2018, 171, 245–257.
[CrossRef]
176. Zheng, Y.; Pi, J.; Guo, T.; Xu, L.; Liu, J.; Kong, J. Design and Simulation of a Gripper Structure of Cluster Tomato Based on Manual
Picking Behavior. Front. Plant Sci. 2022, 13, 974456. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
177. Gao, J.; Zhang, F.; Zhang, J.; Guo, H.; Gao, J. Picking Patterns Evaluation for Cherry Tomato Robotic Harvesting End-Effector
Design. Biosyst. Eng. 2024, 239, 1–12. [CrossRef]
178. Bac, C.W.; Hemming, J.; Van Tuijl, B.A.J.; Barth, R.; Wais, E.; Van Henten, E.J. Performance Evaluation of a Harvesting Robot for
Sweet Pepper. J. Field Robot. 2017, 34, 1123–1139. [CrossRef]
179. Wu, B.; Jiang, T.; Yu, Z.; Zhou, Q.; Jiao, J.; Jin, M.L. Proximity Sensing Electronic Skin: Principles, Characteristics, and Applications.
Adv. Sci. 2024, 11, 2308560. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
180. Mokayed, H.; Quan, T.Z.; Alkhaled, L.; Sivakumar, V. Real-Time Human Detection and Counting System Using Deep Learning
Computer Vision Techniques. AIA 2022, 1, 221–229. [CrossRef]
181. Junge, K.; Pires, C.; Hughes, J. Lab2Field Transfer of a Robotic Raspberry Harvester Enabled by a Soft Sensorized Physical Twin.
Commun. Eng. 2023, 2, 40. [CrossRef]
182. Jones, T.J.; Jambon-Puillet, E.; Marthelot, J.; Brun, P.-T. Bubble casting soft robotics. Nature 2021, 599, 229–233. [CrossRef]
183. Acome, E.; Mitchell, S.K.; Morrissey, T.G.; Emmett, M.B.; Benjamin, C.; King, M.; Radakovitz, M.; Keplinger, C. Hydraulically
Amplified Self-Healing Electrostatic Actuators with Muscle-like Performance. Science 2018, 359, 61–65. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
184. Rebahi, Y.; Gharra, M.; Rizzi, L.; Zournatzis, I. Combining Computer Vision, Artificial Intelligence and 3D Printing in Wheelchair
Design Customization: The Kyklos 4.0 Approach. AIA 2023. [CrossRef]
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
