 
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/isprsjprs
 
UAV-based monocular 3D panoptic mapping for fruit shape completion in 
orchard
Kaiwen Wang a,d
,∗,1, Yue Pan b
,1, Federico Magistri b
, Lammert Kooistra c, Cyrill Stachniss b, 
Wensheng Wang d, João Valente e
a Wageningen University & Research, Information Technology Group, 6708 PB, Wageningen, The Netherlands
b University of Bonn, Center for Robotics, 53115, Bonn, Germany
c Wageningen University & Research, Laboratory of Geo-Information Science and Remote Sensing, 6708 PB, Wageningen, The Netherlands
d Chinese Academy of Agriculture Sciences, Agricultural Information Institute, 10086, Beijing, China
e Spanish National Research Council (CSIC), Center for Automation and Robotics (CAR), 28500, Madrid, Spain
A R T I C L E  I N F O
Dataset link: 10.5281/zenodo.15635994
Keywords:
3D shape completion
Unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV)
3D reconstruction
Structure from motion (sfM)
Precision agriculture
 
A B S T R A C T
Accurate fruit shape reconstruction under real-world field conditions is essential for high-throughput pheno-
typing, sensor-based yield estimation, and orchard management. Existing approaches based on 2D imaging or 
explicit 3D reconstruction often suffer from occlusions, sparse views, and complex scene dynamics as a result 
of the plant geometries. This paper presents a novel UAV-based monocular 3D panoptic mapping framework 
for robust and scalable fruit shape completion in orchards. The proposed method integrates (1) Grounded-
SAM2 for multi-object tracking and segmentation (MOTS), (2) photogrammetric structure-from-motion for 
3D scene reconstruction, and (3) DeepSDF, an implicit neural representation, for completing occluded fruit 
geometries with a neural network. We furthermore propose a new MOTS evaluation protocol to assess tracking 
performance without requiring ground truth annotations. Experiments conducted in both controlled laboratory 
conditions and an operational apple orchard demonstrate the accuracy of our 3D fruit reconstruction at the 
centimeter level. The Chamfer distance error of the proposed shape completion method using the DeepSDF 
shape prior reduces this to the millimeter level, and outperforms the traditional method, while Grounded-SAM2 
enables robust fruit tracking across challenging viewpoints. The approach is highly scalable and applicable to 
real-world agricultural scenarios, offering a promising solution to reconstruct complete fruits with visibility 
higher than 10% for precise 3D fruit phenotyping at a large scale under occluded conditions.
1. Introduction
Fruit production is a relevant component of global agriculture, 
contributing to food supply, dietary diversity, and economic develop-
ment (Mason-D’Croz et al., 2019). To support sustainable fruit cultiva-
tion and meet the increasing demand for high-quality produce, accurate 
and efficient phenotyping plays a vital role in assessing plant traits 
under field conditions (Tripodi et al., 2018). Among various phenotypic 
traits, fruit shape and size are particularly important, as they not only 
directly relate to market value and consumer preference but also serve 
as indicators of plant health and genetic performance (Onyekwelu 
et al., 2014). However, traditional phenotyping methods are often 
manual, labor-intensive, and difficult to scale (Reynolds et al., 2019). 
Developments in precision agriculture, including advances in robotics, 
∗Corresponding author at: Wageningen University & Research, Information Technology Group, 6708 PB, Wageningen, The Netherlands.
E-mail address: kaiwen.wang@wur.nl (K. Wang).
1 Equal contribution
remote sensing, computer vision, and data-driven analysis have im-
proved the efficiency and accuracy, thereby facilitating large-scale and 
high-throughput fruit phenotyping in orchards.
Terrestrial laser scanning (TLS), as one of the typical remote sensing 
tools, has been widely applied in orchard phenotyping due to its ability 
to capture high-resolution and geometrically accurate 3D data of fruit 
trees (Medic et al., 2023). While effective in controlled environments, 
TLS systems are often expensive, cumbersome to deploy across large ar-
eas, and sensitive to occlusions, limiting their practicality for extensive 
in-field phenotyping (Li et al., 2021).
Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), equipped with RGB cameras, 
have emerged as a flexible and scalable alternative for remote sensing 
in precision agriculture (Maes and Steppe, 2019). Through structure-
from-motion (SfM) techniques, UAV-based imagery can be used to 
reconstruct 3D point clouds that represent the spatial structure of 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.isprsjprs.2025.11.013
Received 17 June 2025; Received in revised form 13 October 2025; Accepted 9 November 2025
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 231 (2026) 608–621 
Available online 14 November 2025 
0924-2716/© 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of International Society for Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, Inc. (ISPRS). This is an 
open access article under the CC BY license ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ ). 

K. Wang et al.
orchard environments for phenotyping (Huang et al., 2020). These 
reconstructions are more affordable (less than 1000e ) and accessible 
than LiDAR (more than 10,000e ). However, point clouds from UAV-
based SfM also present limitations. Compared to LiDAR, which can 
receive second or third echoes to reconstruct the invisible areas, SfM 
relies on visible surface features, which restricts the reconstruction of 
shadow, occluded, or partially visible regions (Lingua et al., 2017). 
There exist methods including image strategies in image acquisition 
(e.g., choosing optimal lighting conditions, using long focal lengths, 
or adjusting flight paths), correction processes (e.g., using image cen-
ters, or advanced algorithms), and sensor selection (e.g., push-broom 
sensors to minimize directional occlusion) that can be used to reduce 
the impact of shadows and occlusions (Zhang et al., 2023). The un-
structured, clustered, and dynamic agricultural environments, however, 
make these methods still challenging. In addition to the challenge 
of occlusions and shadows, the scale of orchard phenotyping is also 
a challenge for both LiDAR and conventional UAV remote sensing 
for SfM. Using the point clouds from LiDAR and UAV-based SfM for 
orchard phenotyping are commonly focused on tree structural traits 
such as canopy volume, tree height, and canopy diameter, which is 
limited to the tree level (Zhang et al., 2024; López-Granados et al., 
2019). Up-close sensing with UAVs presents a promising solution to 
reduce the impact of occlusions and address the issue of scalability. Un-
like conventional UAV-based remote sensing, which typically operates 
at altitudes above 10 m along predefined waypoints, up-close sensing 
allows UAVs to fly between crop rows at altitudes below 5 m, enabling 
the capture of more detailed crop information at fruit level and further 
minimizing occlusion and shadow effects by canopies (Wang et al., 
2024).
Multi-view photogrammetry is important for orchard phenotyping 
through up-close sensing. To overcome the limitations of single-view 
or sparse-view reconstruction, multi-view image acquisition has been 
widely adopted to improve object completeness in 3D reconstruc-
tions (Zhu et al., 2015). By capturing the orchard scene from multiple 
viewpoints, it becomes possible to mitigate occlusions and recover 
a more comprehensive representation of the environment (Yu et al., 
2024). However, due to the natural growth patterns of fruit trees, a 
significant number of fruits are often occluded by surrounding struc-
tures such as branches, leaves, or neighboring fruits (Amatya et al., 
2016; Gené-Mola et al., 2023). These occlusions pose fundamental 
challenges in recovering the full geometry of individual fruits using 
conventional geometric methods, which rely heavily on visible surface 
features. (Marangoz et al., 2022) developed a fruit mapping method us-
ing superellipsoids for fruit completion to monitor fruit in greenhouses, 
but the shape completion with superellipsoids can have limitations in 
accuracy. Recent implicit 3D representations such as signed distance 
function (SDF) and neural radiance field (NeRF) offer promising alter-
natives to address occlusions and fruit shape completion (Mildenhall 
et al., 2021). Compared to explicit representations (e.g., point clouds, 
voxels), implicit representations can model continuous 3D shapes from 
sparse or partial observations by learning underlying geometric priors 
from training data (Park et al., 2019). The accurate fruit shape recon-
structed by the model can improve the accuracy of grasping during 
harvesting (Magistri et al., 2024) and pruning the leaves to get better 
fruit shape completion (Yao et al., 2025). In the context of orchard 
environments, it becomes feasible to reconstruct the complete shape of 
partially occluded fruits by leveraging prior knowledge learned from 
complete 3D samples.
In this study, we propose solutions to three issues: (1) simple and 
efficient UAV-based up-closing sensing for orchard monitoring; (2) ac-
curate fruit tracking and segmentation from complex orchard scenes for 
data association between 2D and 3D across frames; (3) 3D reconstruc-
tion of complete fruit geometries in real-world orchard environments 
from incomplete observations, aiming to assist fruit phenotyping and 
support data-driven orchard management. We introduce a multi-stage 
pipeline that integrates instance-level segmentation, multi-view data 
association between 2D images and 3D point clouds, and implicit shape 
reconstruction for fruit completion in orchards. This novel approach 
enables fine-grained, instance-level fruit reconstitution in real-world 
orchard conditions, where occlusions and viewpoint limitations pose 
significant challenges. The main contributions of this work are (1) to 
present a unified fruit reconstruction pipeline that combines MOTS, 
DeepSDF, and photogrammetry methods by UAV-based up-close sens-
ing in orchard environments,(2) to propose a novel method to evaluate 
MOTS without any annotations, and (3) to provide a highly accurate 
3D apple dataset collected in a laboratory environment, along with 
UAV-captured high-resolution videos in the field. The dataset and codes 
for this research are publicly available at: https://github.com/Kaiwen-
Robotics/Mono3DOrchard.
2. Study area and materials
This study contains two data collection areas: field data collection 
and laboratory data collection.
2.1. Field data collection
2.1.1. Study area
The field data collection was conducted within an apple orchard 
located in Randwijk, Overbetuwe, the Netherlands (51.9376, 5.703057 
in WGS84 UTM 31U), as shown in Fig. 1. The selected areas of 0.083 
ha in the orchard contain four rows of the apple variety Elstar, Malus 
pumila ‘Elstar’, with tree and row spacing of 1.1 m and 3.0 m, respec-
tively. There were about 80 trees in each row in the targeted study area. 
The maturity of the apples was in the expanding growth stage during 
the data collection, these apples were harvested one month later.
2.1.2. UAV data collection and flight mode design
We used a commercial UAV equipped with a high-resolution RGB 
sensor for video data collection in the apple orchard, see Table 1. To 
ensure high-quality 3D reconstruction for fruit completion, four differ-
ent UAV flight modes were carefully designed during data collection, 
see Fig. 2. Flight mode A followed a straight line from one edge of the 
row to another edge of the row, and the camera perspective was from 
the side to the trees, as shown in Fig. 2(a). Flight mode B followed 
an up-down trajectory with a closer distance to the trees compared to 
flight A, see Fig. 2(b). Flight modes C and D were flights between rows 
of fruit trees at a higher altitude for safety, but the camera perspectives 
were different, with C being a side view and D a front view, see Figs. 
2(c) and 2(d). The four flight modes were designed to evaluate the 
influences of MOTS and reconstruction performance to vary altitude, 
camera perspective, and distance to the crops during flight between 
rows. The UAV collected video data at 29.98 FPS between tree rows 
at an altitude of around 2 to 4 m. For the approach, however, we used 
only 3 FPS to improve efficiency while keeping it robust.
2.1.3. Ground truth manual measurements
For ground truth manual measurements, we measured the heights 
of the wood poles in the orchard and the apple sizes as shown in Fig. 
3(b). In a row of fruit trees, there are 14 wooden poles spaced apart, 
and between every two poles, there are around six to eight fruit trees 
arranged. These wood poles are set for supporting the growth of crops 
and organizing orchard management. The height of each wood pole is 
2.7 m with our measurement. The height of the poles was the reference 
for metric scale recovery.
Apple size, the maximum diameter of the apple is one of the 
indicators for fruit grading, growth condition monitoring, and precise 
yield estimation at the fruit level. In row 1, we sampled 24 trees, and 
about six apples per tree, which leads to a total of 135 apples. We also 
recorded the maximum diameters of the sampled apples by manually 
measuring the diameters with dial calipers. To correspond the sampled 
apples to the video data, colored ribbons were tied on the apple stalks 
as colored labels depicted in Fig. 3(b).
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 231 (2026) 608–621 
609 

K. Wang et al.
Fig. 1. The location of the apple orchard in Randwijk, Overbetuwe, Gelderland in the Netherlands. The red cross in (a) presents the location of the orchard. (b) 
shows the UAV flight conditions in the orchard during data collection. And the highlighted rectangular region in (c) marks the study area in the whole orchard 
orthomosaic, and the red line shows one of the targeted apple tree rows (row 1). (d) presents the overview of the panoptic point cloud of the targeted row in 
the orchards. (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)
Table 1
Description of flight parameters and operation conditions during UAV data collection.
 UAV platform
DJI Phantom 4 RTK, Shenzhen, China
 
 Sensor
RGB FC6310R
 
 Sensor Type
CMOS
 
 Resolution
3840 × 2160
 
 Focal length (mm)
8.8
 
 Flight altitude (m)
Around 2 to 4
 
 Flight velocity (m/s)
Around 0.1 to 1.5
 
 Video Frame rate (fps)
29.98
 
 Collection date & start time
July 24th, 2024, from 10:01 AM to 10:41 AM (before apple harvesting) 
 Wind Speed (m/s)
2.8
 
 Illumination conditions
Sunny
 
 Temperature (◦C)
20
 
2.2. Lab setup and data collection
In the laboratory environment, the shapes of 100 individual apples 
of the same variety ‘Elstar’ as present in the orchard were scanned 
and collected with a 3D scanner as shown in Fig. 3(a). The type of 3D 
scanner was CR-Scan Ferret from Creality, China,2 with 0.1 mm accu-
racy. The apples were fixed at the top of the stick. Two checkerboard 
grids were placed vertically on either side of the back of the apple for 
reference and camera calibration.
2.3. 3D fruit data preprocessing
For the lab dataset, all 3D apple scanning setups in the lab environ-
ment allow us to normalize 100 different apple data, which means that 
2 https://www.creality.com/products/cr-scan-ferret-3d-scanner
the 𝑧-axis positive direction aligns the apple stem direction, and the 
center points of all apples were placed at the origin point, see Fig. 4. 
The meshes of 100 apples and sticks were segmented separately with 
CloudCompare. After that, the sticks can be considered as cylinders. 
We calculated the centers of mass of the cylinders and retained three 
principal components of the cylinders using PCA (principal component 
analysis), with the first direction of the principal component being 
the direction of the cylinder’s generatrix. Then, we aligned all the 
sticks with individual transformation matrices for each. In the mean-
time, each transformation matrix was applied to each corresponding 
apple. Finally, all apples were placed at the origin point in a common 
canonical coordinate system.
2.4. Apple diameter distribution in lab and field
After getting the aligned 3D apple dataset, we also calculated the 
maximum diameters of the 3D apples. Since the maturity of the apples 
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 231 (2026) 608–621 
610 

K. Wang et al.
 
Fig. 2. UAV flight modes in apple orchard. Flight mode A shows the UAV flying at the edge of the orchard in a straight line, and the direction of the camera 
was a side perspective during video capture. Flight mode B shows the UAV following an up-down path at a closer distance than mode A, and the direction of 
the camera is a side perspective during video capture. Flight mode C shows the UAV flying between tree rows in a straight line with a downward side camera 
perspective view of 30 to 45 degrees at a higher altitude than mode A during video capture. Flight mode D shows the UAV flying between tree rows in a straight 
line with a downward front camera perspective view of 30 to 45 degrees at a higher altitude than mode A during video capture.
 
Fig. 3. Data collection in the apple orchard and a controlled laboratory environment. (a) shows the laboratory setup for data collection with a 3D scanner and 
field data measurement with a vernier caliper. (b) shows the six colored labels, including red, yellow, pink, orange, dark blue, and light blue in the orchards, 
and a 2.7-meter height of the wooden pole in the orchard, which supports the growth of the apple trees and organizes the orchards. (For interpretation of the 
references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 231 (2026) 608–621 
611 

K. Wang et al.
Fig. 4. Normalization procedure of the total 100 apple colored point clouds.
Fig. 5. Distribution of apple diameters in both lab and field environments.
in the field was in the expansion stage and the maturity of the apples 
in the lab was ripe, the distribution of apple diameters demonstrates a 
significant difference between apples in the laboratory and in the field. 
As shown in Fig. 5, the laboratory apples exhibited notably larger diam-
eters with measurements predominantly ranging from 70 mm to 85 mm, 
while field apples displayed smaller diameters primarily between 55 mm
and 65 mm.
3. Methods
The proposed UAV-based monocular 3D panoptic mapping ap-
proach for orchard environments is shown in Fig. 6. The approach inte-
grates multi object tracking and segmentation (MOTS) with Grounded-
SAM2 for apple tracking (Ravi et al., 2024; Ren et al., 2024), apple 
shape completion via DeepSDF for foreground reconstruction (Park 
et al., 2019), and background reconstruction of the orchard via structure-
from-motion (SfM) (Schonberger and Frahm, 2016). The detailed meth-
ods are explained in the following sections.
3.1. Apple MOTS with grounded-SAM2
Data association across frames is important for linking 2D apple 
images and 3D point clouds. MOTS could be a solution to associate 
data since it can track objects. To achieve robust and consistent in-
stance tracking of apples across multiple frames, we employ Grounded-
SAM2 (Ren et al., 2024) for MOTS. The objective is to associate 
individual apples across 2D consecutive UAV-captured frames while 
maintaining high segmentation accuracy. After that, the point cloud of 
the submaps will be unprojected by the 2D instance IDs and masks of 
each apple to get 3D individual partial point cloud of each apple with 
our panoptic mapping method. Unlike traditional bounding box-based 
tracking methods, MOTS enables pixel-wise instance tracking, which is 
crucial for accurate 3D fruit shape completion.
Leveraging the robust tracking capabilities of Segment Anything 
Model2 (SAM2), Grounded-SAM2 integrates it with open-set object 
detector Grounding DINO to enhance object tracking and segmentation. 
We initialize the tracking pipeline using the Grounding-DINO detector 
with a simple text prompt ‘‘apple’’ to generate class-aware object 
proposals. The predicted bounding boxes of apples from Grounding-
DINO serve as box prompts for the SAM2 video predictor, enabling 
the extraction of high-quality apple instance masks with temporally 
consistent instance IDs, denoted as .
The raw UAV frames with 3 FPS were input to Grounded-SAM2. 
Then, the masks  associated with the apple tracking IDs were pre-
dicted by a large SAM2 model and a tiny Grounding DINO model. The 
experiments for MOTS were implemented on an NVIDIA Quadro RTX 
A6000 GPU.
3.2. 3D reconstruction with SfM
We used Agisoft Metashape Pro3 (Agisoft LLC, St. Petersburg, Rus-
sia) to estimate the UAV camera poses and accurate dense depth 
information. We imported the raw UAV frames with 3 FPS into Agisoft 
and set a pair of marker points at the top and bottom of the poles, as 
illustrated in Fig. 3(a) as a scale reference. The distance between two 
points were set to 2.7 m. Then all frames were aligned with ‘highest 
accuracy’ and ‘source’ options under 40,000 key point limit and 4000 
tie point limit. The reprojection error of the final result is 0.691 pixels. 
After that, point clouds with an ‘ultra high’ quality and ‘mild’ depth 
filtering were built. A depth export script4 was implemented to get 
the highly accurate depth maps  from SfM. Finally, the depth  and 
camera poses  with metric scale can be derived.
3.3. Apple shape completion with pretrained DeepSDF
The DeepSDF model (Park et al., 2019) takes a query position 𝐱∈R3
and a latent shape code 𝐳∈R𝐶 as input, and predicts the corresponding 
SDF value 𝑣∈R at the query position 𝑥 with a decoder based on 
multi-layer perceptron (MLP), 𝐷𝜃 as 𝑣= 𝐷𝜃(𝐱, 𝐳). We can compute 
a dense SDF volume by querying it at a regular 3D grid of points 
using a pre-trained DeepSDF model, which we use for a complete mesh 
reconstruction through marching cubes (Lorensen and Cline, 1998).
We followed the descriptions for DeepSDF, as described in Park 
et al. (2019), to prepare the dataset before training the model. We ran-
domly sampled 200,000 points that contained positive values (outside 
the 3D apples) and negative (inside the 3D apples) values around all 
3D apple point clouds. Then, we built eight-layer MLPs for training the 
DeepSDF model, with each layer comprising of 512 dimensions. The 
inputs of the DeepSDF model were the sampled points, which were 
uniformly in a sphere surrounding the 3D apples, including the sampled 
point positions (x, y, z) and the SDF values. The dataset was divided 
into a training set (88 apples) and a test set (12 apples). We calculate 
the SDF value of each sample point for supervision. We adopted a 
latent shape code size of 𝐶= 32 and used 3000 epochs and a 0.001 
initial learning rate with a decrease of 0.0005 every 300 epochs for 
training. The DeepSDF model was trained on an HPC with an Intel Core 
i9-10940X CPU, an NVIDIA Titan RTX GPU, and 64 GB of memory.
3 https://www.agisoft.com/
4 https://github.com/agisoft-llc/metashape-scripts
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 231 (2026) 608–621 
612 

K. Wang et al.
Fig. 6. UAV-based panoptic mapping framework for orchard environments. The video frames collected by UAV were input to both MOTS and SfM. From MOTS, 
the apple instance IDs and corresponding masks  and bounding boxes across frames were output. From SfM, the depth , camera poses , and the orchard 
point clouds were generated. After that, our mapping methods combined all camera poses , depth , RGB images, and masks  of each apple instance to get 
partial point clouds for each apple submap. Meanwhile, the pretrained DeepSDF was optimized for apple completion.
3.4. Panoptic mapping
In our previous work (Pan et al., 2023), we proposed a panoptic 
mapping pipeline using an RGB-D camera mounted on a ground robot 
for sweet pepper mapping and completion in a greenhouse environ-
ment, which aimed at online operation. In contrast to that, we use a 
monocular high-resolution camera mounted on a UAV in an outdoor 
apple orchard, aiming at offline panoptic mapping and reconstruction, 
i.e., a setup with different modalities.
We first built a panoptic point cloud map that decomposes the 
scene into the background (orchard) and individual foreground (apple 
instances) and then assigned submaps  to every panoptic entity. Then, 
the background submap was downsampled to a 0.01 resolution voxel 
size to save memory, while the apple instance submaps kept their 
original resolution. Each partial foreground point cloud was derived 
from the selected depth pixels by masks  in each frame, which are 
then transformed to the world coordinate system using camera poses 
. Then, the foreground submaps of each apple entity were derived by 
accumulating the unprojected point cloud from multiple frames. Thus, 
the tracking robustness is crucial for the reprojection, which requires 
comprehensive evaluations.
Then, we conducted optimization by two loss functions. First we 
kept the points from the target point cloud  of the foreground 
submap close to the iso-surface of the SDF predicted by 𝐷𝜃, which 
minimizes the surface reconstruction loss 𝑠 by Eq. (1). 
𝑠=
1
||
∑
p𝓌∈
𝐷2
𝜃(⊤𝑜𝑤p𝓌, 𝓏)
(1)
= 𝑤𝑠𝑠+ 𝑤𝑟𝑟,
(2)
where 𝑟= ‖𝑧‖2, 𝑤𝑠 and 𝑤𝑟 are the weights for each loss term. 
We then used Levenberg–Marquardt with analytical Jacobians to solve 
𝜉∗
𝑜𝑤, 𝑧∗= arg min , where 𝜉𝑜𝑤∈R7 belongs to sim(3) Lie Algebra of ⊤𝑜𝑤. 
We initialized the latent shape code 𝑧 as 𝟎𝐶. And the 𝜉𝑜𝑤 is initialized as 
an identity rotation, a scaling of 1, and a translation from the bounding 
box center of the submap point cloud to the origin point. At each 
iteration, with damping parameter 𝜆, the update 𝛿𝑥 to the estimated 
parameter vector [𝜉𝑜𝑤, 𝑧]⊤ is computed as 
𝛿𝑥= [𝛿𝜉𝑜𝑤, 𝛿𝑧]⊤= (𝐻+ 𝜆diag(𝐻))−1𝑔,
(3)
where 𝐻= 𝐽⊤𝑃𝐽 is the approximate Hessian matrix, 𝑔= 𝐽⊤𝑃𝑏 is the 
gradient of the target function, and 𝐽, 𝑃, 𝑏 are the Jacobian matrix, 
weight matrix and residual vector, respectively. With all Jacobians and 
residuals, we can optimize Eq. (3) as 
[𝜉(𝑡+1)
𝑜𝑤
, 𝑧(𝑡+1)]⊤= [𝜉(𝑡)
𝑜𝑤, 𝑧(𝑡)]⊤+ 𝛿𝑥(𝑡)
(4)
until convergence. After Eq. (4) convergence, the complete 3D apple 
model can be reconstructed using marching cubes (Lorensen and Cline, 
1998) with the optimized latent shape code 𝑧∗ at 3D grid queries in 
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 231 (2026) 608–621 
613 

K. Wang et al.
the apple’s canonical coordinate system. Then the 3D model can be 
transformed into the world coordinate system using ⊤∗
𝑜𝑤= exp(𝜉∗
𝑜𝑤). 
The panoptic mapping method was also implemented on an HPC with 
an Intel Core i9-10940X CPU, NVIDIA Titan RTX GPU, and 64 GB of 
memory.
3.5. Proposed method performance assessment
Three steps were conducted to comprehensively evaluate the per-
formance of the panoptic mapping framework.
3.5.1. MOTS evaluation metrics
The MOTS performance was evaluated under four different UAV 
flight modes, see Fig. 2. We annotated 1890, 756, 470, and 1015 apple 
instances across 10 sequential frames in each flight mode, separately.
Three typical metrics were used to evaluate tracking and segmen-
tation performance (Voigtlaender et al., 2019): MOTSA (multiple ob-
ject tracking and segmentation accuracy), sMOTSA (soft MOTSA), and 
MOTSP (multiple object tracking and segmentation precision), as de-
fined in Eqs. (7), (8), and (9). 
𝑐(ℎ) =
⎧
⎪
⎨
⎪⎩
arg max
𝑚∈𝑀
IoU(ℎ, 𝑚),
if max
𝑚∈𝑀IoU(ℎ, 𝑚) > 0.5
∅,
otherwise.
(5)̃
𝑇𝑃=
∑
ℎ∈𝑇𝑃
IoU(ℎ, 𝑐(ℎ))
(6)
𝑀𝑂𝑇𝑆𝐴= |𝑇𝑃| −|𝐹𝑃| −|𝐼𝐷𝑆|
|𝑁|
(7)
𝑠𝑀𝑂𝑇𝑆𝐴=̃ 𝑇𝑃−|𝐹𝑃| −|𝐼𝐷𝑆|
|𝑁|
(8)
𝑀𝑂𝑇𝑆𝑃=̃ 𝑇𝑃
|𝑇𝑃|
(9)
where 𝑀= 𝑚1, … , 𝑚𝑁 with 𝑚𝑖∈0, 1 are the ground truth pixel masks, 
𝐻= ℎ1, … , ℎ𝐾 with ℎ𝑖∈0, 1 are the non-empty hypothesis masks, 𝑇𝑃
are true positives, ̃𝑇𝑃 are soft true positives, 𝐹𝑃 are false positives, 
𝐼𝐷𝑆 are instance ID switches, 𝑁 is the total number of ground truth 
masks.
Based on the performance of the MOTS from the previous metrics 
in the four flight modes, we can get a preliminary idea of the optimal 
MOTS result for a particular flight mode. However, the conventional 
evaluation of MOTS requires annotations, which are labor-intensive and 
time-consuming. Thus, we also designed a novel evaluation algorithm 
to validate MOTS results without any prior ground truth annotations. 
As shown in Alg. 1, the total frames 𝑁 are randomly divided into 10 
parts 𝑆, each with 5 sequential frames. In each part, 10 apple instances 
are randomly selected to calculate their average centroid movement 
speed with masks , depth , intrinsic matrix K, and camera poses . 
Meanwhile, the average movement speeds of the camera are also calcu-
lated and compared with the movement speeds of the apple instances. 
The average movement speeds of the camera can be considered as a 
reference for evaluating the tracking performance of apple instances. As 
another complementary evaluation, the method was implemented for 
the particular flight mode with the optimal performance of the MOTS.
3.5.2. Apple reconstruction quality assessment in lab
To quantitatively evaluate the accuracy of apple shape reconstruc-
tion, we compute the Chamfer distance (CD) between the reconstructed 
apple point clouds from the DeepSDF model and the ground truth 
scans acquired in a controlled laboratory setting. The CD measures the 
average nearest-neighbor distance between two point sets, providing an 
assessment of shape fidelity. Given a reconstructed apple point cloud 𝑃𝑟
and a ground truth scanned apple 𝑃𝑔, the CD is computed as in Eq. (10).
𝐷𝐶(𝑃𝑟, 𝑃𝑔) =
1
|𝑃𝑟|
∑
𝑝∈𝑃𝑟
min
𝑞∈𝑃𝑔
‖𝑝−𝑞‖2 +
1
|𝑃𝑔|
∑
𝑞∈𝑃𝑔
min
𝑝∈𝑃𝑟
‖𝑞−𝑝‖2
(10)
Algorithm 1 MOTS Performance Evaluation Without Ground Truth
Require: Total frames 𝑁, Masks , Depth , Camera poses , 
Intrinsic matrix K
Ensure: MOTS Performance Score
1: Extract camera positions  from XML file
2: Select 10 random frame windows 𝑆= {𝑆1, 𝑆2, … , 𝑆10}, where each 
window compose by 5 sequential frames
3: Initialize empty list  for speed ratios
4: for each part 𝑆𝑖∈𝑆 do
5: 
Randomly select 10 apple instances  in the first frame of 𝑆𝑖
6: 
Initialize empty lists instance, camera
7: 
for each consecutive frame pair (𝑡, 𝑡+ 1) ∈𝑆𝑖 do
8: 
Load mask centroids 𝑡 and 𝑡+1 from 
9: 
Load depth maps 𝑍𝑡 and 𝑍𝑡+1 from 
10: 
Extract depth values 𝑡 and 𝑡+1 at centroids
11: 
Compute apple instance speeds:
𝑣instance,𝑗=
‖𝑋𝑗
𝑡+1 −𝑋𝑗
𝑡‖
𝛥𝑡
,
𝑗∈
12: 
Compute camera movement speed:
𝑣UAV,𝑡= ‖𝑃𝑡+1 −𝑃𝑡‖
𝛥𝑡
13: 
Append 𝑣UAV,𝑡 to camera
14: 
Append all 𝑣instance,𝑗 to instance
15: 
end for
16: 
Compute average speed ratio:
𝑅= E[instance]
E[camera]
17: 
Append 𝑅 to 
18: end for
19: Compute final MOTS performance score:
MOTS Score = E[]
20: Return MOTS Score
This metric computes the mean squared distance between each 
point in 𝑃𝑟 and its closest counterpart in 𝑃𝑔, and vice versa. A lower 
CD indicates a higher reconstruction accuracy, as it reflects improved 
alignment and shape consistency between the reconstructed and ground 
truth apple models.
3.5.3. Field panoptic reconstruction assessment
To assess the effectiveness of the multi-resolution approach for the 
field panoptic reconstruction, we evaluate the memory consumption 
of both the original high-resolution background submap and the low-
resolution background submap. In the proposed method, the resolution 
of the background (orchard) is reduced to mitigate the memory over-
head while preserving the high resolution of the foreground (apple 
instances) to maintain the detailed representation of the objects of 
interest. It aims to optimize computational resources by focusing on 
areas where high precision is critical, while sacrificing some details 
of the background. The apple entity submaps were reconstructed as 
completed apple meshes and evaluated by comparing the maximum 
diameters of the completed meshes with manual measurements. 
𝑅𝑀𝑆𝐸=
√
√
√
√
𝑛
∑
𝑖=1
(̂𝑦𝑖−𝑦𝑖)2
𝑛
(11)
where the ̂𝑦𝑖 is the maximum diameter of the predicted apple mesh, 𝑦𝑖
is the maximum diameter of the manual measurement, 𝑛 is the number 
of the samples.
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 231 (2026) 608–621 
614 

K. Wang et al.
Table 2
Apple detection and tracking performance with AppleMOTS and Grounded-SAM2 under four different flight modes. The bold 
numbers indicate the best results.
 Model
Flight mode
MOTSA (%)↑
sMOTSA (%)↑
MOTSP (%)↑
Avg Time 
 
(FPS)↑
 
 TrackRCNN
(de Jong et al., 2022; 
Voigtlaender et al., 
2019)
A
−2.69
−2.73
58.71
0.15
 
 
B
−6.70
−7.04
57.74
 
 
C
−8.30
−8.30
0.00
 
 
D
−4.43
−4.43
0.00
 
 PointTrack
(de Jong et al., 2022; 
Xu et al., 2020)
A
8.47
6.38
64.98
3.24
 
 
B
1.03
−3.79
62.19
 
 
C
−2.03
−3.85
14.21
 
 
D
−1.38
−2.43
6.98
 
 
Grounded-SAM2
(Ren et al., 2024)
A
34.84
14.95
71.98
1.31 
 
 
B
2.72
−1.20
72.13
 
 
C
−40.18
−57.05
66.96
 
 
D
1.99
1.25
73.29
 
The RMSE (root mean square error) of the maximum diameters 
between the predicted completed apple meshes and manual measure-
ments was calculated to show the performance of our method in the 
field (Eq. (11)).
4. Results
4.1. Apple MOTS performance in orchard
Overall, the results in Table 2 and Fig. 8 show that the MOTS 
results of flight mode A through the Grounded-SAM2 model perform 
the best to track apples across frames in occluded orchard conditions. 
The apple instances were clustered closely together in each tree, often 
with overlapping shapes and partial occlusions.
The results of two MOTS methods for apple detection and tracking 
across are presented in Table 2. Four different flight modes (Fig. 2), 
and three MOTS metrics defined in Eqs. (5), (6), (7) are assessed to 
benchmark apple MOTS performance. Grounded-SAM2 substantially 
outperforms AppleMOTS (de Jong et al., 2022) using either Track-
RCNN (Voigtlaender et al., 2019) and PointTrack (Xu et al., 2020) 
model across the four evaluated flight modes. AppleMOTS with Track-
RCNN model yields negative scores for both MOTSA and sMOTSA in 
every mode (ranging from −2.69% to −8.30% and −2.73% to −8.30%, 
respectively), and its apple segmentation precision (MOTSP) never 
exceeds 58.71%, collapsing to 0% in modes C and D. The negative 
values indicate low tracking performance with too many ID switches 
of the instances.
By contrast, Grounded-SAM2 attains the highest MOTSA (34.84%) 
and sMOTSA (14.95%) in mode A, while also securing the top MOTSP 
(73.29%) in mode D. But the apple detection rate of Grounded-SAM2 in 
mode D is too low which limits the practical application performance 
(Fig. 2). Although performance for Grounded-SAM2 degrades markedly 
in mode C (MOTSA −40.18%, sMOTSA −57.05%), it still delivers 
superior precision compared to AppleMOTS in every mode, suggesting 
greater robustness to variations in flight dynamics.
In terms of inference efficiency, PointTrack achieved the highest 
processing speed at 3.24 FPS, followed by Grounded-SAM2 at 1.31 FPS, 
while TrackRCNN was slowest at 0.15 FPS. Combined with the tracking 
and detection performance, Grounded-SAM2 provides more practical 
potential for large-scale orchard applications.
To comprehensively assess the MOTS performance in the field, 
we also followed our proposed evaluation algorithm, which does not 
require any annotation (Alg. 1). The heatmap (Fig. 8) illustrates the 
speed ratios between instance movement and camera movement across 
multiple frame sequences by our random sampling methods. Most of 
the speed ratio values remain close to 1.0, indicating that most detected 
apple instances move at a rate similar to the camera, suggesting a stable 
tracking performance. However, a few extreme values are observed, 
where certain apple instances exhibit significantly higher or lower 
Table 3
Apple reconstruction performance based on 
Chamfer distance. The comparison is between 
the DeepSDF model and sphere approximation 
(SA).
 Method
Error ↓
 
 SA
1.67 ± 0.08 
 DeepSDF
0.98 ± 0.05 
speed ratios, as highlighted in the darker blue and orange regions of 
the heatmap. The high speed ratios may result from apple instance ID 
switches, occlusions, or tracking inconsistencies in challenging orchard 
conditions. And the zero value of speed ratios could be caused by 
the UAV hovering during flight. Overall, the apple instance tracking 
performance with Grounded-SAM2 in flight mode A is acceptable in 
the orchard for data association.
4.2. Evaluation of apple reconstruction in lab environment
A total of 88 individual scanned apples were trained by DeepSDF, 
another 12 scanned apples were used as the test set to evaluate the 
performance of the model. In apple orchards, apples are commonly 
approximated as spheres to simplify geometric modeling and analy-
sis (Gené-Mola et al., 2021), thus, we also conduct a benchmark of 
apple reconstruction comparing the sphere approximation method and 
the DeepSDF model. 70 mm Tables 3 and A.6 present the reconstruction 
performance of individual apples using Chamfer distance (Eq. (9)) 
as the evaluation metric, where lower values indicate better shape 
reconstruction accuracy. Overall, DeepSDF outperforms SA in all cases, 
with lower Chamfer distances across all apples. For example, for Apple 
10, 12, 13, 14, 100, and 101, DeepSDF achieves significantly lower 
errors which are lower than 1.00 mm, (e.g., 0.93 mm, 0.97 mm, 0.97 mm, 
0.89 mm, 0.98 mm, respectively) compared to SA (1.59 mm, 1.70 mm, 
1.65 mm, 1.62 mm, 1.50 mm, 1.73 mm, respectively). These consistent im-
provements suggest that DeepSDF can more accurately capture the 
geometric complexity of apple shapes compared to an SA model.
4.3. Panoptic mapping for apple shape completion in apple orchard
In the apple orchard, a total of 2729 individual apples were detected 
and reconstructed with our panoptic mapping method within row 1 
under flight mode A. We classified the occluded apple on five levels of 
occlusion according to the visibility of pixels in the images in the real 
apple orchard (Du et al., 2023), following common categorization in 
orchard phenotyping studies (Table 5). As for the recorded 135 apples 
with artificial labels, 12.6% apples were at the A level, 19.3% apples 
were at B level, 27.4% apples were at C level, 30.4% apples were at 
D level, and 10.4% apples were at E level which were not detected or 
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 231 (2026) 608–621 
615 

K. Wang et al.
 
Fig. 7. MOTS examples of four different flight modes across five frames. The dashed red box shows the same targeted regions in the five frames. Different color 
masks and bounding boxes in the red boxes indicate different apple instances.
Fig. 8. The heatmap of speed ratios for the preliminary optimal flight mode A 
through evaluation with manual annotations (Instance Speed/Camera Speed).
tracked by our method. 120 from 135 sampled apples under different 
occlusion levels were detected and reconstructed their shapes (Fig. 
9(b)). The level of apple occlusion showed a positive correlation with 
reconstruction error (Fig. 9(a)), while the error reduced at the level of 
D. This reduction of error at the level D may cause by the increase of 
the occlusion level leading to more accurate masks by Grounded-SAM2 
than the level B and C. And the total RMSE of the 120 apples between 
predicted apple diameters and ground truth measurements was 1.85 cm.
The average computational time cost during the SfM steps for 
the four flight modes was around 24 min, as stated in Table 4. And 
for the apple shape completion in orchard environments, the average 
reconstruction time with pretrained DeepSDF was 0.58 sec for each 
partial observed apples. The memory cost of the background submap 
was reduced by 31.9% from 1.75 GB to 571 MB after downsampling 
the resolution of the point cloud.
5. Discussion
5.1. Effect of dense and occluded homogeneous objects on UAV-based 
MOTS
MOTS techniques have been predominantly developed and bench-
marked using datasets from urban driving, surveillance, or robotics 
domains, such as KITTI MOTS (Geiger et al., 2012), BDD100K (Yu 
et al., 2020), and TAO (Dave et al., 2020). These datasets typically 
feature scenes where foreground objects (e.g., vehicles or pedestrians) 
are relatively large, sparse in distribution, and exhibit distinct motion 
patterns from the background. Furthermore, foreground instances usu-
ally occupy a significant portion of the image and are well-separated 
from one another, allowing MOTS algorithms to leverage appearance 
features and temporal continuity for reliable instance association.
In contrast, orchard environments introduce a set of unique chal-
lenges that deviate significantly from the assumptions underlying con-
ventional MOTS models. First, the foreground objects of interest (e.g., fruits, 
leaves) are small, visually homogeneous, and densely distributed (Fig. 
7). Fruits with the same variety often have near-identical shape, color, 
and texture, making it difficult for MOTS algorithms to distinguish 
individual instances, especially when fruits overlap or cluster together. 
Second, unlike dynamic objects in urban scenes, fruits are largely 
stationary, and their motion is highly correlated with the background 
(i.e., the tree canopy). This diminishes the effectiveness of motion-
based tracking and increases the risk of ID switches or tracking drift (de 
Jong et al., 2022). Moreover, the presence of occlusions, whether par-
tial or complete, further complicates the association of fruit instances 
across frames, potentially causing tracking failures or object drift (Table 
2).
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 231 (2026) 608–621 
616 

K. Wang et al.
Table 4
The computational costs of SfM steps under four different flight modes. ‘‘# Img’’ means the number of images 
for each flight mode.
Flight mode
A
B
C
D
 
# Img
210
271
60
135
 
 SfM
Align Photo
1 min 57 s
2 mins 2s
1 min 11 s
1 min 29 s 
 Steps
Build Point Cloud
33 mins 8 s
28 mins 38 s
9 mins 19 s
19 mins 12 s 
Table 5
Occlusion levels in the apple orchard. Five occlusion levels are defined according to the visibility.
 Level
Visible area ratio
Examples
Description
 
 A
≥90%
Fully visible or almost no occlusion 
 B
70%–89%
Mild occlusion
 
 C
40%–69%
Medium occlusion
 
 D
10%–39%
Heavily occlusion
 
 E
<10%
Extremely occlusion or barely visible 
The data acquisition process using UAV platforms in orchards im-
poses additional influences on MOTS performance. Compared to con-
ventional MOTS scenarios, some studies reached lower performance of 
MOTS when using UAVs to track fruits (de Jong et al., 2022; Ariza-
Sentís et al., 2023). Although they proposed a novel model or using 
multiple views to improve fruit tracking performance, some of the met-
rics, such as sMOTSA and MOTSA, presented even negative values. In-
stead of the unique features mentioned above in orchard environments, 
the UAV flight modes may be another factor that influences the MOTS 
performance. The studies mentioned above implement MOTS using 
only single flight mode, which may not be suitable for different crops 
and different applications. Our proposed method employs Grounded-
SAM2 for MOTS, which demonstrates promising performance in the 
field, particularly under flight mode A (Table 2). Among the four UAV 
flight strategies tested, flight mode A achieved the highest MOTSA 
and sMOTSA scores (Table 2), indicating superior tracking accuracy 
and robustness across dense and partially occluded apple rows. The 
improved performance in this mode can be attributed to the favorable 
side-view perspective and moderate proximity to the canopy, which 
facilitates clearer object contours and minimizes severe occlusions. In 
contrast, flight mode D, despite achieving high segmentation precision 
(MOTSP), detected significantly fewer apple instances (Table 2). This 
suggests that while fewer, visually salient apples were well tracked in 
these modes, the lower detection rate limited their applicability for 
large-scale phenotyping.
We also found that the manual annotation is crucial for MOTS 
evaluation in current research (Geiger et al., 2012; Yu et al., 2020; Dave 
et al., 2020). It is essential to evaluate the performance with a public 
dataset with annotations when developing a novel MOTS algorithm, 
but it is difficult for applications that only implement MOTS in a 
new domain. However, labeling for evaluating MOTS is challenging 
due to the need for consistent and precise instance-level annotations 
across frames in complex, dynamic scenes. To simplify the MOTS 
evaluation and boost MOTS applications, a novel evaluation algorithm 
was introduced, estimating object motion consistency without requiring 
prior annotations (Alg. 1). The ‘‘velocity ratio-based method’’ for MOTS 
evaluation only requires the velocity of the UAV, which is available 
from state estimation (e.g., GNSS, IMU, visual odometry, etc.). Results 
from this unsupervised evaluation complement manual metrics, rein-
forcing the reliability of the proposed approach under field conditions. 
Nonetheless, extreme motion inconsistencies in some sequences suggest 
that Grounded-SAM2, while effective, remains sensitive to motion blur 
and abrupt occlusions, which are common in UAV-based videos in 
orchard environments (Table 2 and Fig. 8).
5.2. 3D fruit shape completion under occlusions
Accurate 3D shape completion of fruit from UAV-based monocular 
observations under occlusions remains a critical challenge in orchard 
environments due to complex scene layouts, heavy foliage, and limited 
perspectives from UAV. In our study, we addressed this challenge by 
integrating multi-view observations with a learning-based shape prior 
(DeepSDF) to infer complete 3D fruit geometries from sparsely visible 
surfaces.
Our results demonstrate that even when a significant portion of 
the fruit is occluded in individual frames, the reconstruction pipeline 
is capable of completing plausible and structurally consistent fruit 
shapes under occlusion conditions (Fig. 9 and 10). The accuracy of the 
reconstruction reaches centimeter level in our method. Aside from our 
3D mapping method to address occlusion issues in the orchard, Gené-
Mola et al. (2023) proposed a 2D amodal solution to predict the 
complete masks for the occluded apples. Their results from amodal 
completion for fruit size estimation have shown promising results, 
as they can obtain an MAE (mean absolute error) of 4.17 mm and 
an 𝑅2 of 0.91 between the mean diameters measured manually and 
predicted by the model. But their method only detects and measures 
the apples with visibility higher than 60%, while according to our 
visibility level distribution (Table 4, and Fig. 9(a)), we can detect and 
reconstruct the apple with visibility higher than 10%. And their method 
cannot estimate fruit distribution and true geometric properties in the 
real orchards. Furthermore, their 2D amodal method typically requires 
extensive human labeling to train the model, which is time-consuming 
and limits scalability for large-scale orchard applications. Active Shape 
Models (ASM) are effective for capturing statistical shape variations, 
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 231 (2026) 608–621 
617 

K. Wang et al.
Fig. 9. Results of apple diameters between the predicted and ground truth and error analysis. (a) shows the prediction error of apple diameter across different 
occlusion levels. Each box shows the distribution of absolute prediction errors under a specific visibility condition, ranging from fully visible (Level A) to nearly 
invisible (Level E). Missing predictions result in empty boxes. (b) shows the comparison of apple diameters from 24 apple trees. The green colors indicate predicted 
values, and the yellow colors indicate ground truth values. The x- and y-axes illustrate the number of the fruit tree and the color label of the sampled apple in 
the orchard, respectively. The size of the circles represents the diameter of the apples. (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the 
reader is referred to the web version of this article.)
and can be applied in both 2D and 3D domains (Cootes et al., 1995). 
However, the ASM requires manual landmark annotation and is less 
robust under strong occlusions, since missing landmarks cannot be 
reliably inferred, especially in complex orchard environments where 
fruits are frequently obscured by foliage and branches.
In addition, the minimum fruit size detectable by our method is 
influenced by three main factors. First, the UAV flight settings (altitude, 
camera resolution, and distance to the crops) determine the number 
of pixels covering each fruit, which directly affects segmentation re-
liability. Second, the diversity of training samples for DeepSDF plays 
an important role, as including a wider range of apple sizes and 
shapes improves the model’s ability to reconstruct smaller fruits. Third, 
the phenological stage of the orchard (e.g., early growth vs. mature 
fruiting) also impacts detectability, since fruits in early stages are both 
smaller and more occluded by foliage. Together, these factors imply 
that the minimum detectable size is not a fixed threshold but rather 
depends on sensing configuration, training data, and orchard growth 
stage. Thus, the minimum detectable fruits for our field experiment is 
around 45 mm according our flight settings, training dataset distribution 
and growth stage of fruit trees in the orchards.
5.3. Limitations and future work
Our DeepSDF model was pretrained on our lab 3D apple dataset 
where the apples were in the mature stage. While the apples in the 
field were in the expansion stage during data collection. The fact that 
apples were at different stages of growth leads to a systematic deviation 
of the diameter of apples collected in the laboratory from the diameter 
of apples collected in the field in the orchard (Fig. 5). The average 
deviation of the apple diameter was 1.6 cm between lab dataset and 
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 231 (2026) 608–621 
618 

K. Wang et al.
Fig. 10. The panoptic mapping of the orchard row and the apple shape completion results. (a) shows the panoptic mapping orchard with four different regions 
highlighted in red boxes. (b), (c), (d) and (e) show four partial apple point clouds with our measurements under three perspectives and their predicted complete 
meshes. The middle images show the occlusion conditions. (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web 
version of this article.)
field dataset, which was also in line with our predicted results (1.85 cm 
MAE).
Another limitation relates to MOTS performance. Because the data 
association between 2D images and 3D point clouds depends on the 
results from MOTS, the performance of MOTS is crucial for the whole 
system. But there are unavailable issues (e.g., instance ID switches 
and wrong detection) in the current MOTS frameworks, which lead 
to some failures of following apple 3D reconstructions. Thus, in our 
future study, we will first collect more fruit data covering more growth 
stages and more varieties to address the generalization issues. Then, we 
will continue to work on exploring and developing more robust MOTS 
algorithms that are suitable for agricultural scenarios.
Furthermore, our field experiments were conducted in row-planted 
orchards, which are the most common orchard production systems in 
Europe. However, there are other planting patterns (e.g., quincunx, 
hexagon, or triangle) which aim to maximize space and resource ef-
ficiency (Hendricks, 1996). In such scenarios, the UAV path would 
need to be adapted to acquire sufficient multi-view overlap. The active 
view selection proved to be one of the promising methods to improve 
the fruit reconstruction qualities, which can also adapt to different 
orchard planting patterns. Some studies developed next best view 
planning methods to improve the quality of fruit reconstruction and 
scene mapping for robot arms in greenhouses (Menon et al., 2023; Jose 
et al., 2025). Therefore, we believe that it would be possible for UAV 
to plan the next best view to increase the visibility of targeted fruits 
and the quality of reconstruction confidence in real orchards.
The external conditions during UAV flights, such as wind and illu-
mination also influence the performance of the proposed method. In 
terms of wind, the modern UAV platform are commonly equipped with 
an advanced obstacle avoidance system and a flight control algorithm 
supported by high-accuracy RTK, RGB, and IMU sensors, which ensured 
stable flights under light wind conditions (5 m∕s). Nevertheless, strong 
winds may introduce drift and motion blur in images, thereby affecting 
both SfM reconstruction and MOTS. For illumination, strong sunlight at 
low angles can cause glare, lens flare, and harsh shadows, which reduce 
MOTS quality and degrade feature matching in SfM. Non-uniform 
illumination across orchard rows may further contribute to inconsistent 
reconstruction results. To mitigate these effects, flights should ideally 
be scheduled under diffuse illumination (e.g., cloudy days) or at midday 
when shadowing is minimal. Future work could also consider the use of 
high dynamic range (HDR) imaging to further reduce the sensitivity of 
the system to lighting variations or introduce LiDAR and other sensors 
for sensor fusion to make the system more robust.
Large digitization footprint is also a limitation of our framework. 
Due to the high-resolution of the images, the single flight with flight 
mode A of around 1 min for one row produces approximately 1800 
frames, corresponding to 700 MB of raw video data. After SfM and 
MOTS, the generated depth images typically reach 1.27 GB for one row 
flight. For our outline process time is acceptable, around 20 mins for 
SfM reconstruction (Table 4), 2 mins for MOTS inference on around 
200 frames (Table 2), and 9 mins for DeepSDF reconstruction of 2000 
apple instances. Potential solutions for our future work may include 
onboard data compression, multi-modality fusion, lightweight implicit 
models, and GPU acceleration, which can reduce storage and processing 
bottlenecks.
6. Conclusion
This study presents a novel and fully automatic pipeline for UAV-
based monocular 3D panoptic mapping for fruit shape completion in 
orchard environments. Our main contributions are integrating state-of-
the-art techniques including Grounded-SAM2 for MOTS, DeepSDF for 
implicit 3D shape reconstruction, and SfM-based photogrammetry, the 
proposed framework effectively addresses key challenges in fruit phe-
notyping, such as occlusion, scale variation, and the dense distribution 
of homogeneous fruits.
Through comprehensive evaluations, the method demonstrates ro-
bust instance tracking under real-world field conditions and signifi-
cantly improves the fidelity of reconstructed apple shapes compared 
to conventional sphere approximations. The proposed MOTS evalua-
tion approach, capable of operating without ground truth annotations, 
further supports scalable and efficient model validation in complex 
agricultural settings.
The unified framework bridges high-resolution, instance-level re-
construction and scalable UAV-based data acquisition, offering a promis-
ing tool for large-scale, precise fruit phenotyping. Future work may 
explore the extension of this framework to other crop types and inte-
grate multimodal sensing to further enhance reconstruction robustness 
and generalization under diverse field conditions.
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 231 (2026) 608–621 
619 

K. Wang et al.
CRediT authorship contribution statement
Kaiwen Wang: Writing – review & editing, Writing – original 
draft, Visualization, Validation, Software, Methodology, Investigation, 
Formal analysis, Data curation, Conceptualization. Yue Pan: Writing 
– review & editing, Visualization, Validation, Software, Methodology, 
Formal analysis. Federico Magistri: Validation, Software, Methodol-
ogy. Lammert Kooistra: Writing – review & editing, Visualization, 
Supervision, Project administration, Methodology, Conceptualization. 
Cyrill Stachniss: Writing – review & editing, Visualization, Super-
vision, Project administration, Conceptualization. Wensheng Wang: 
Writing – review & editing, Supervision, Project administration, Fund-
ing acquisition, Conceptualization. João Valente: Writing – review & 
editing, Visualization, Supervision, Project administration, Methodol-
ogy, Formal analysis, Conceptualization.
Declaration of competing interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing finan-
cial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to 
influence the work reported in this paper.
Acknowledgment
We would like to thank Zhen Cao, Tianyi Jia, Álvaro Lau Sarmiento, 
and Berry Onderstal for their support during data acquisition. We are 
also grateful to Pieter van Dalfsen for his support regarding the apple 
orchards.
Appendix. I
Algorithm 2 Mesh Alignment and Rescaling for Apple Models
1: procedure AlignAndRescaleMeshes
2: 
Set rotation_matrix ←
⎡
⎢
⎢⎣
1
0
0
0
0
−1
0
1
0
⎤
⎥
⎥⎦
3: 
Set scale_factor ←1000.0
4: 
Load reference mesh and apple meshes
5: 
(ref_centroid, ref_axis) ←FitCylinderAxis(ref_mesh)
6: 
ref_centroid_apple ←ComputeCentroid(ref_mesh_apple)
7: 
for 𝑖∈[1, 𝑁] do
8: 
Load stick_mesh and apple_mesh with index 𝑖
9: 
if stick or apple mesh does not exist then
10: 
continue
11: 
end if
12: 
(src_centroid, src_axis) ←FitCylinderAxis(stick_mesh)
13: 
T ←ComputeTransformationMatrix(src_axis, ref_axis)
14: 
Apply T to apple_mesh
15: 
src_centroid_apple ←ComputeCentroid(apple_mesh)
16: 
Tapple
← ComputeAlignMatrix(src_centroid_apple, ref_cen-
troid_apple)
17: 
Apply Tapple to apple_mesh
18: 
Save aligned apple_mesh
19: 
end for
20: 
for 𝑖∈[1, 𝑁] do
21: 
Load aligned apple_mesh
22: 
if mesh does not exist then
23: 
continue
24: 
end if
25: 
Apply rotation_matrix and divide vertices by scale_factor
26: 
Move transformed mesh to origin point
27: 
Save transformed mesh
28: 
end for
29: end procedure
See Table A.6.
Table A.6
Apple reconstruction performance based on Chamfer distance. 
The comparison is between the DeepSDF model and sphere 
approximation (SA).
 Apple ID
SA (mm) ↓
DeepSDF (mm) ↓ 
 Apple10
1.59
0.93
 
 Apple11
1.63
1.03
 
 Apple12
1.70
0.97
 
 Apple13
1.65
0.93
 
 Apple14
1.62
0.97
 
 Apple15
1.78
1.05
 
 Apple16
1.69
1.00
 
 Apple17
1.74
1.03
 
 Apple18
1.74
1.01
 
 Apple19
1.66
1.01
 
 Apple100
1.50
0.89
 
 Apple101
1.73
0.98
 
Data availability
Our 3D apple data in the lab and UAV-based video data in the apple 
orchard can be found in: 10.5281/zenodo.15635994.
References
Amatya, S., Karkee, M., Gongal, A., Zhang, Q., Whiting, M.D., 2016. Detection of cherry 
tree branches with full foliage in planar architecture for automated sweet-cherry 
harvesting. Biosyst. Eng. 146, 3–15. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.
2015.10.003.
Ariza-Sentís, M., Baja, H., Vélez, S., Valente, J., 2023. Object detection and tracking on 
UAV RGB videos for early extraction of grape phenotypic traits. Comput. Electron. 
Agric. 211, 108051. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2023.108051.
Cootes, T.F., Taylor, C.J., Cooper, D.H., Graham, J., 1995. Active shape models-their 
training and application. Comput. Vis. Image Underst. 61 (1), 38–59.
Dave, A., Khurana, T., Tokmakov, P., Schmid, C., Ramanan, D., 2020. TAO: A large-
scale benchmark for tracking any object. In: Computer Vision – ECCV 2020. 
Springer International Publishing, pp. 436–454. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-3-
030-58558-7_26.
de Jong, S., Baja, H., Tamminga, K., Valente, J., 2022. APPLE MOTS: Detection, 
segmentation and tracking of homogeneous objects using MOTS. IEEE Robot. 
Autom. Lett. 7 (4), 11418–11425. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/lra.2022.3199026.
Du, X., Cheng, H., Ma, Z., Lu, W., Wang, M., Meng, Z., Jiang, C., Hong, F., 2023. DSW-
YOLO: A detection method for ground-planted strawberry fruits under different 
occlusion levels. Comput. Electron. Agric. 214, 108304.
Geiger, A., Lenz, P., Urtasun, R., 2012. Are we ready for autonomous driving? The KITTI 
vision benchmark suite. In: Proceedings of the 2012 IEEE Conference on Computer 
Vision and Pattern Recognition. IEEE, pp. 3354–3361. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/
cvpr.2012.6248074.
Gené-Mola, J., Ferrer-Ferrer, M., Gregorio, E., Blok, P.M., Hemming, J., Morros, J.-R., 
Rosell-Polo, J.R., Vilaplana, V., Ruiz-Hidalgo, J., 2023. Looking behind occlusions: 
A study on amodal segmentation for robust on-tree apple fruit size estimation. 
Comput. Electron. Agric. 209, 107854. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2023.
107854.
Gené-Mola, J., Sanz-Cortiella, R., Rosell-Polo, J.R., Escolà, A., Gregorio, E., 2021. 
In-field apple size estimation using photogrammetry-derived 3D point clouds: 
Comparison of 4 different methods considering fruit occlusions. Comput. Electron. 
Agric. 188, 106343. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2021.106343.
Hendricks, L., 1996. Orchard planning, design, and development. Almond Prod. Man. 
47–51.
Huang, Y., Ren, Z., Li, D., Liu, X., 2020. Phenotypic techniques and applications in 
fruit trees: a review. Plant Methods 16 (1), http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/s13007-020-
00649-7.
Jose, A.I., Pan, S., Zaenker, T., Menon, R., Houben, S., Bennewitz, M., 2025. GO-VMP: 
Global optimization for view motion planning in fruit mapping. http://dx.doi.org/
10.48550/arXiv.2503.03912, URL arXiv:2503.03912.
Li, L., Mu, X., Soma, M., Wan, P., Qi, J., Hu, R., Zhang, W., Tong, Y., Yan, G., 
2021. An iterative-mode scan design of terrestrial laser scanning in forests for 
minimizing occlusion effects. IEEE Trans. Geosci. Remote Sens. 59 (4), 3547–3566. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/tgrs.2020.3018643.
Lingua, A., Noardo, F., Spanò, A., Sanna, S., Matrone, F., 2017. 3D model generation 
using oblique images acquired by UAV. Int. Arch. Photogramm. Remote. Sens. 
Spat. Inf. Sci. XLII-4/W2, 107–115. http://dx.doi.org/10.5194/isprs-archives-xlii-
4-w2-107-2017.
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 231 (2026) 608–621 
620 

K. Wang et al.
López-Granados, F., Torres-Sánchez, J., Jiménez-Brenes, F.M., Arquero, O., Lovera, M., 
de Castro, A.I., 2019. An efficient RGB-UAV-based platform for field almond 
tree phenotyping: 3-D architecture and flowering traits. Plant Methods 15 (1), 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/s13007-019-0547-0.
Lorensen, W.E., Cline, H.E., 1998. Marching cubes: a high resolution 3D surface 
construction algorithm. In: Seminal Graphics: Pioneering Efforts that Shaped the 
Field. ACM, pp. 347–353. http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/280811.281026.
Maes, W.H., Steppe, K., 2019. Perspectives for remote sensing with unmanned aerial 
vehicles in precision agriculture. Trends Plant Sci. 24 (2), 152–164. http://dx.doi.
org/10.1016/j.tplants.2018.11.007.
Magistri, F., Pan, Y., Bartels, J., Behley, J., Stachniss, C., Lehnert, C., 2024. Improving 
robotic fruit harvesting within cluttered environments through 3D shape comple-
tion. IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett. 9 (8), 7357–7364. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/lra.
2024.3421788.
Marangoz, S., Zaenker, T., Menon, R., Bennewitz, M., 2022. Fruit mapping with 
shape completion for autonomous crop monitoring. In: Proceedings of the 18th 
IEEE International Conference on Automation Science and Engineering. IEEE, pp. 
471–476. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/case49997.2022.9926466.
Mason-D’Croz, D., Bogard, J.R., Sulser, T.B., Cenacchi, N., Dunston, S., Herrero, M., 
Wiebe, K., 2019. Gaps between fruit and vegetable production, demand, and 
recommended consumption at global and national levels: an integrated modelling 
study. Lancet Planet. Health 3 (7), e318–e329. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/s2542-
5196(19)30095-6.
Medic, T., Bömer, J., Paulus, S., 2023. Challenges and recommendations for 3D 
plant phenotyping in agriculture using terrestrial lasers scanners. ISPRS Ann. 
Photogramm. Remote. Sens. Spat. Inf. Sci. X-1/W1-2023, 1007–1014. http://dx.
doi.org/10.5194/isprs-annals-x-1-w1-2023-1007-2023.
Menon, R., Zaenker, T., Dengler, N., Bennewitz, M., 2023. NBV-SC: Next best view 
planning based on shape completion for fruit mapping and reconstruction. In: 
Proceedings of the 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots 
and Systems. IEEE, http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/iros55552.2023.10341855.
Mildenhall, B., Srinivasan, P.P., Tancik, M., Barron, J.T., Ramamoorthi, R., Ng, R., 2021. 
NeRF: representing scenes as neural radiance fields for view synthesis. Commun. 
ACM 65 (1), 99–106. http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/3503250.
Onyekwelu, J.C., Olusola, J.A., Stimm, B., Mosandl, R., Agbelade, A.D., 2014. Farm-
level tree growth characteristics, fruit phenotypic variation and market potential 
assessment of three socio-economically important forest fruit tree species. For. Trees 
Livelihoods 24 (1), 27–42. http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/14728028.2014.942386.
Pan, Y., Magistri, F., Läbe, T., Marks, E., Smitt, C., McCool, C., Behley, J., Stachniss, C., 
2023. Panoptic mapping with fruit completion and pose estimation for horticul-
tural robots. In: Proceedings of the 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on 
Intelligent Robots and Systems. IEEE, http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/iros55552.2023.
10342067.
Park, J.J., Florence, P., Straub, J., Newcombe, R., Lovegrove, S., 2019. DeepSDF: Learn-
ing continuous signed distance functions for shape representation. In: Proceedings 
of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. pp. 
165–174.
Ravi, N., Gabeur, V., Hu, Y.-T., Hu, R., Ryali, C., Ma, T., Khedr, H., Rädle, R., 
Rolland, C., Gustafson, L., Mintun, E., Pan, J., Alwala, K.V., Carion, N., Wu, C.-Y., 
Girshick, R., Dollár, P., Feichtenhofer, C., 2024. SAM 2: Segment anything in images 
and videos. http://dx.doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2408.00714, URL arXiv:2408.00714.
Ren, T., Liu, S., Zeng, A., Lin, J., Li, K., Cao, H., Chen, J., Huang, X., Chen, Y., 
Yan, F., Zeng, Z., Zhang, H., Li, F., Yang, J., Li, H., Jiang, Q., Zhang, L., 
2024. Grounded SAM: Assembling open-world models for diverse visual tasks. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2401.14159, URL arXiv:2401.14159.
Reynolds, D., Baret, F., Welcker, C., Bostrom, A., Ball, J., Cellini, F., Lorence, A., 
Chawade, A., Khafif, M., Noshita, K., Mueller-Linow, M., Zhou, J., Tardieu, F., 
2019. What is cost-efficient phenotyping? Optimizing costs for different scenarios. 
Plant Sci. 282, 14–22. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.plantsci.2018.06.015.
Schonberger, J.L., Frahm, J.-M., 2016. Structure-from-motion revisited. In: Proceedings 
of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition.
Tripodi, P., Massa, D., Venezia, A., Cardi, T., 2018. Sensing technologies for precision 
phenotyping in vegetable crops: Current status and future challenges. Agronomy 8 
(4), 57. http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/agronomy8040057.
Voigtlaender, P., Krause, M., Osep, A., Luiten, J., Sekar, B.B.G., Geiger, A., Leibe, B., 
2019. MOTS: Multi-object tracking and segmentation. In: Proceedings of the 
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. pp. 7942–7951.
Wang, K., Kooistra, L., Wang, Y., Vélez, S., Wang, W., Valente, J., 2024. Benchmarking 
of monocular camera UAV-based localization and mapping methods in vineyards. 
Comput. Electron. Agric. 227, 109661. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2024.
109661.
Xu, Z., Zhang, W., Tan, X., Yang, W., Huang, H., Wen, S., Ding, E., Huang, L., 2020. 
Segment as points for efficient online multi-object tracking and segmentation. In: 
Proceedings of the 16th European Conference of Computer Vision. pp. 264–281. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-58452-8_16.
Yao, S., Pan, S., Bennewitz, M., Hauser, K., 2025. Safe leaf manipulation for accurate 
shape and pose estimation of occluded fruits. In: Proc. of the IEEE Intl. Conf. on 
Robotics & Automation. ICRA, http://dx.doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2409.17389, URL 
https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.17389.
Yu, F., Chen, H., Wang, X., Xian, W., Chen, Y., Liu, F., Madhavan, V., Darrell, T., 
2020. BDD100K: A diverse driving dataset for heterogeneous multitask learning. 
In: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern 
Recognition.
Yu, S., Liu, X., Tan, Q., Wang, Z., Zhang, B., 2024. Sensors, systems and algorithms of 
3D reconstruction for smart agriculture and precision farming: A review. Comput. 
Electron. Agric. 224, 109229. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2024.109229.
Zhang, W., Peng, X., Bai, T., Wang, H., Takata, D., Guo, W., 2024. A UAV-based single-
lens stereoscopic photography method for phenotyping the architecture traits of 
orchard trees. Remote. Sens. 16 (9), 1570. http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/rs16091570.
Zhang, J., Xu, S., Zhao, Y., Sun, J., Xu, S., Zhang, X., 2023. Aerial orthoimage 
generation for UAV remote sensing: Review. Inf. Fusion 89, 91–120. http://dx.
doi.org/10.1016/j.inffus.2022.08.007.
Zhu, Z., Stamatopoulos, C., Fraser, C.S., 2015. Accurate and occlusion-robust multi-
view stereo. ISPRS J. Photogramm. Remote Sens. 109, 47–61. http://dx.doi.org/
10.1016/j.isprsjprs.2015.08.008.
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 231 (2026) 608–621 
621 
