IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AUTOMATION SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING, VOL. 23, 2026
11401
Semantic NeRF-Oriented 3-D Object Counting
for Industrial Fruit Harvesting
Yimo Wang , Bin Kang , Member, IEEE, Jian Liu , Member, IEEE, and Changyin Sun , Senior Member, IEEE
Abstract—Object counting is the core of perception compo-
nents in the industry system. Nevertheless, real-world occlusion
and dense clustering pose signiﬁcant challenges to fruit har-
vesting.
Existing
methods
closely
rely
on
physics-agnostic
2D clustering with rigid thresholds, neglecting critical 3D geo-
metric cues in complex scenes. Thus, they suﬀer from the
multi-view double-counting issue. In this paper, we propose a
3D object counting framework that integrates semantic Neural
Radiance Fields (NeRF) with a physics-guided adaptive clustering
algorithm. In particular, we employ a semantic NeRF to achieve
implicit 3D scene reconstruction, which eﬀectively isolates target
objects from the background. Based on the semantic NeRF,
we introduce a physics-guided adaptive clustering algorithm
that exploits physically interpretable features, including surface
normals and elevation gradients, for accurate unsupervised
point cloud segmentation. Subsequently, an energy function
optimization mechanism is utilized to autonomously aggregate
multi-dimensional features for dynamically adjusting clustering
thresholds, which enables the 3D counting to adapt to diverse
fruit morphologies without manual parameter tuning. Extensive
experiments on both synthetic and real-world datasets demon-
strate the superiority of the proposed framework, which improves
counting accuracy by an average of 9.0 percentage points
(6.9 pp on synthetic, 7.2 pp on real-world, and 12.9 pp on Fuji)
over the state-of-the-art 3-D baseline.
Note to Practitioners—This work targets the challenge of
accurate fruit counting in orchards where heavy occlusion and
dense clustering often cause double-counting and unreliable yield
estimation. Conventional 2D vision systems depend on hand-
tuned thresholds and lack spatial awareness. To address this,
we propose a 3D counting framework that integrates a semantic
Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) with a physics-guided adaptive
clustering algorithm. The framework reconstructs the orchard
scene in 3D, isolates fruits from the background, and adaptively
segments point clouds by analyzing geometric cues such as sur-
Received 7 November 2025; revised 19 April 2026; accepted 30 May
2026. Date of publication 5 June 2026; date of current version 24 June
2026. This article was recommended for publication by Associate Editor
J. C. Rodriguez-Qui˜nonez and Editor Z. Liu upon evaluation of the review-
ers’ comments. This work was supported in part by the National Natural
Science Foundation of China under Grant 62495083 and Grant 62236002.
(Corresponding author: Changyin Sun.)
Yimo Wang is with the School of Automation, Southeast University,
Nanjing 210096, China (e-mail: yimowang@seu.edu.cn).
Bin Kang is with the School of Internet of Thing, Nanjing Univer-
sity of Posts and Telecommunications, Nanjing 210003, China (e-mail:
kangb@njupt.edu.cn).
Jian Liu is with the School of Automation, Southeast University, Nanjing
210096, China (e-mail: bkliujian@seu.edu.cn).
Changyin Sun is with the School of Automation, Southeast University,
Nanjing 210096, China, also with the Key Laboratory of Measurement
and Control of Complex System of Engineering, Ministry of Education,
Southeast University, Nanjing 210096, China, and also with the School
of Artiﬁcial Intelligence, Anhui University, Hefei 230601, China (e-mail:
cysun@seu.edu.cn).
Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/TASE.2026.3700861
face normals and elevation gradients. This approach eliminates
the need for manual calibration and improves counting accuracy
under varying lighting and viewing conditions. For practitioners,
the method can be incorporated into automated yield-estimation
or robotic-harvesting systems to enhance reliability and reduce
labor costs. The current pipeline targets oﬄine pre-harvest
yield estimation within an edge–cloud workﬂow, where a UAV
or ground robot captures imagery in the ﬁeld and a remote
server performs NeRF reconstruction and counting. The current
limitation lies in the computational load of NeRF reconstruction.
Future work will explore eﬃcient 3D representations such as
Gaussian Splatting for real-time deployment in ﬁeld robots.
Index Terms—Intelligent agriculture, object counting, semantic
reconstruction, adaptive point cloud clustering.
I. INTRODUCTION
I
NDUSTRY 4.0 is expanding into diﬀerent areas, e.g.
Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI), and robotics are increas-
ingly permeating agriculture, giving rise to the paradigm of
‘Agriculture 4.0’. Within this development trend, automated
harvesting is a critical component for modernizing orchard
management. Speciﬁcally, the capability for precise and robust
real-time fruit counting and sorting is fundamental for accu-
rate yield prediction and robotic operational planning [1].
This capability is profoundly important. Because accurate in-
ﬁeld counting enables precise yield forecasting essential for
optimizing logistics and business strategies, while automated
sorting by quality attributes like size and color is vital for
minimizing post-harvest losses. Therefore, developing reliable
automated counting and sorting technologies is a foundational
pillar for the economic viability and eﬃciency of next-
generation smart agriculture systems.
In fruit harvesting contexts, the object counting task is
intrinsically complicated by the tendency of dense three-
dimensional
clusters,
resulting
in
severe
occlusion
that
obscures individual boundaries [4]. Conventional 2D vision-
based approaches, such as image processing reliant on color
segmentation or edge detection [14], frequently fail to achieve
reliable counting in such complex spatial scenarios. Traditional
three-dimensional counting methodologies aim to achieve a
comprehensive enumeration of target objects by leveraging
visual data from images or videos captured across multi-
ple viewpoints. Although deep learning-based 3D counting
methods have shown promise in certain scenarios, they often
suﬀer redundant counting issues when aggregating multi-view
observations [5], [6], [7], as illustrated in Fig. 1. The core
challenge arises from the projective nature of their 2D imag-
ing, wherein diﬀerent viewpoints capture only partial object
1558-3783 © 2026 IEEE. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining, and training of artiﬁcial intelligence and
similar technologies. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:47:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

11402
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AUTOMATION SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING, VOL. 23, 2026
Fig. 1. Double counting issue in multi-view Object Counting. In the context of multi-view image-based counting, variations in viewpoint and the high degree
of similarity among target objects make it challenging to disambiguate individual instances across diﬀerent perspectives, which consequently leads to the
problem of erroneous duplicate counting.
appearances, lacking inherent spatial awareness. This results
in two primary limitations: on the one hand the inability to
distinguish individual object instances in overlapping regions,
and on the other hand, the absence of consistent identity
tracking across multiple views.
Three-dimensional (3D) reconstruction-based methodolo-
gies present a viable avenue for circumventing the inher-
ent limitations of conventional object counting techniques.
By generating explicit 3D models from multi-view imagery,
these methods furnish a comprehensive spatial context essen-
tial for enumeration tasks. Prominent among contemporary
3D reconstruction approaches are Neural Radiance Fields
(NeRF) and 3D Gaussian Splatting (3DGS). Eﬀective object
counting via 3D reconstruction, however, mandates more
than the mere reconstruction of target objects; a cru-
cial prerequisite is the separation of these objects from
the background to enable the isolation of their respec-
tive point clouds for subsequent enumeration. While 3DGS
demonstrates eﬃciency in scene approximation through the
ﬁtting of anisotropic Gaussian kernels, integrating seman-
tic information into Gaussian-splat representations typically
requires explicit feature-ﬁeld distillation that increases pipeline
complexity [40]. Conversely, NeRF’s architectural ﬂexibility
natively permits the incorporation of semantic inputs, such as
object masks, into the continuous volumetric ﬁeld. This facil-
itates the direct disentanglement of radiance ﬁelds pertinent
to target objects from convoluted backgrounds. Nevertheless,
the direct utilization of point clouds derived from NeRF
reconstructions does not comprehensively address the counting
problem. This is due to the fact that existing point cloud
clustering algorithms, including DBSCAN and Euclidean
clustering, are heavily reliant on meticulous hyperparame-
ter tuning and exhibit diﬃculties in processing objects of
irregular morphology [8], [9], [10]. Distance-centric methods
often prove inadequate in separating concave surface regions
of
proximate
fruits,
whereas
density-centric
approaches
are prone to misclassifying sparsely distributed peripheral
points [11]. Furthermore, supervised deep learning methods
impose considerable prerequisites [4]. Critically, a majority
of extant approaches neglect vital geometric cues, such as
surface normals and elevation diﬀerentials, which encapsulate
indispensable shape information for clustered fruits [12], [13].
In this paper, we introduce a physics-guided object counting
framework that leverages 3D information. Our framework
ﬁrst employs a semantic-aware Neural Radiance Field (NeRF)
to isolate target objects from the background. The extracted
point cloud is then subjected to a physics-guided adaptive
clustering algorithm to perform robust instance segmenta-
tion and counting. The primary innovation of our work lies
in the physics-guided clustering solution, which presents a
new paradigm for instance segmentation in point cloud-based
counting tasks. In contrast, conventional clustering methods
are often physics-agnostic, only relying on point density or
Euclidean distance while ignoring the rich geometric informa-
tion that encodes physical reality. Consequently, they fail to
resolve boundaries between closely-packed or touching fruits
where density remains uniformly high, leading to erroneous
merging (i.e., under-segmentation) and inaccurate counts.
To model the core physical properties of fruit clusters, the
proposed physics-guided clustering method initially employs
point density as a primary geometric feature. This feature
is utilized to deﬁne object contours, as high-density regions
typically correspond to an object’s body while sparse, low-
density areas delineate potential boundaries. However, point
density only is insuﬃcient for the fruit counting task due
to frequent occlusion and inter-fruit contact. Speciﬁcally, in
regions of direct physical contact between adjacent fruits,
the point density remains uniformly high. This results in
erroneously merging distinct instances. To address this critical
limitation, our framework introduces two additional, more
descriptive geometric features: normal vectors and elevation
gradients.
Descriptive geometric features leverage the observation that
a surface normal vector’s direction remains consistent across
a single, continuous object. Consequently, a sharp, abrupt
change in vector orientation serves as a powerful physical
indicator of a boundary, such as the crease between two
touching objects. We capture this trait by analyzing the local
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:47:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

WANG et al.: SEMANTIC NeRF-ORIENTED 3-D OBJECT COUNTING FOR INDUSTRIAL FRUIT HARVESTING
11403
consistency of the normal vectors, where a high variance
is treated as strong evidence of an inter-object boundary.
In addition to normal vectors, we incorporate elevation.
A point’s elevation gradient on a fruit’s surface is tied to its
growth orientation, indicating that a single fruit should exhibit
a smooth elevation proﬁle. By evaluating elevation gradients,
we can capture the sharp, discontinuous changes that occur at
the junction of two separate fruits. This abrupt gradient change
is treated as further physical evidence for delineating an
instance boundary. Based on the above observation, we oper-
ationalize the physical model by integrating density, normal
vectors, and elevation gradients within a hierarchical opti-
mization framework. This framework leverages progressive
threshold optimization to precisely estimate the point cloud
distribution of each fruit in 3D physical space. This adaptive
process proﬁciently distinguishes concave boundary regions
between contiguous objects from true topological separations.
This endows the 3D object counting framework with the
adaptability to accommodate variations in fruit morphology
without manual parameter recalibration.
The main contributions of this paper are as follows:
• We propose an object counting framework that formulates
the conventional multi-view counting problem into the
3D domain, which fundamentally resolves the duplicate
counting issue that arises when aggregating observations
from overlapping 2D views.
• We propose a physics-guided adaptive point cloud clus-
tering algorithm in the object counting framework. Our
algorithm integrates multi-dimensional geometric fea-
tures, including surface normals and elevation gradients,
into a hierarchical optimization to adapt to diverse fruit
morphologies and accurately distinguish between densely
clustered or occluded instances without manual parameter
tuning.
• Extensive
experiments
on
synthetic
and
real-world
datasets, including Fuji-SfM, validate our method’s
eﬀectiveness. Our method excels at handling severe occlu-
sion and dense clustering, improving counting accuracy
by an average of 9.0 percentage points (6.9 pp on
synthetic, 7.2 pp on real-world, and 12.9 pp on Fuji) over
the state-of-the-art 3-D baseline.
II. RELATED WORKS
A. Object Counting
Conventional fruit counting methods, relying on manual
or semi-automated techniques, are limited in accuracy by
occlusion and dense clustering. These approaches are often
impeded by dense fruit arrangements [2] and fail to generalize
across diverse lighting conditions and fruit morphologies [4].
While 2D deep learning methods have shown potential for
handling occlusion in speciﬁc applications [14], [15], they
are inherently unable to resolve the duplicate counting prob-
lem that arises when observing a 3D scene from multiple
viewpoints. Although object tracking across image sequences
can mitigate this issue [6], a more robust paradigm involves
reformulating the problem in the 3D domain. Leveraging
modern reconstruction technology, this approach has emerged
as a new research direction. For instance, Meyer et al. utilized
a Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) to reconstruct the fruit point
cloud, which enables direct counting in 3D space and resolves
the issue of inter-frame duplicate counts [3].
B. Neural Radiance Field
Neural
Radiance
Field
(NeRF),
introduced
by
Mildenhall
et
al.,
transformed
3D
scene
representation
by
using
neural
networks
to
implicitly
model
scenes
for high-quality novel view synthesis. This foundational
work has since been extended and improved in various
aspects [16]. Key advancements include addressing anti-
aliasing, with Mip-NeRF introducing conical tracing [17] and
Zip-NeRF proposing a grid-based method [18]. Eﬃciency
has also been a central research focus, with methods
like
Instant-NGP
reducing
computational
costs
through
adaptive input encoding [19] and TensoRF employing tensor
decomposition to accelerate processing [20]. Extending NeRF
to semantic modeling is crucial for 3D scene understanding.
The initial approach, Semantic-NeRF, integrated a semantic
ﬁeld supervised by annotated labels [21]. However, this
method’s reliance on extensive annotated data is a signiﬁcant
limitation. To address this, subsequent research has explored
unsupervised or self-supervised techniques. For instance,
Tschernezki et al. proposed a teacher-student framework [22]
that distills features from a pre-trained DINO model [23] into
a trainable semantic ﬁeld.
C. Point Cloud Segmentation
Point cloud segmentation is a fundamental task in 3D analy-
sis, with clustering methods often categorized by their under-
lying principles. Density-based methods, such as DBSCAN
[10], deﬁne clusters based on local point density, which is
eﬀective for identifying irregularly shaped groups. However,
their eﬃcacy is limited by a sensitivity to manually tuned
parameters (e.g., neighborhood radius) and outliers, which can
disrupt density connectivity, a notable challenge in fruit count-
ing applications. Distance-based methods, including k-means
[24] and KD-tree Euclidean clustering [25], [26], rely on ﬁxed
distance thresholds or initial centers. This reliance makes them
susceptible to errors in complex scenes; k-means is sensitive to
initialization and may mispartition non-spherical fruits, while
Euclidean clustering’s uniform thresholds perform poorly on
heterogeneous data. Region-growing methods [27] expand
clusters based on local similarity metrics. While eﬀective for
coherent surfaces, their strict connectivity requirements can
lead to over-segmentation of sparse point clouds, such as those
representing individual fruits. Model-based approaches [13] ﬁt
geometric primitives (e.g., spheres, planes) to the data. This is
eﬃcient for regular structures but fails for irregular objects like
fruits, where the limited representational power of primitives
leads to poor segmentation. Graph-based methods [28], [29]
excel at encoding complex spatial relationships but often incur
high computational costs, limiting their applicability to large-
scale point clouds or real-time scenarios.
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:47:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

11404
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AUTOMATION SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING, VOL. 23, 2026
III. METHOD
A. Pipeline Overview
The proposed framework processes multi-view RGB images
in three sequential stages. First, a Structure-from-Motion
(SfM) pipeline recovers camera parameters. Second, the
posed images and fruit segmentation masks jointly supervise
a semantic NeRF, from which a fruit-only point cloud is
extracted via orthographic ray-marching. Third, the point
cloud is fed to our physics-guided adaptive clustering algo-
rithm, which identiﬁes individual fruit instances and produces
the ﬁnal count. Within this pipeline, the SfM module, the Ner-
facto backbone, and the segmentation priors (Grounded-SAM
or U-Net) are adopted without modiﬁcation; the instance-
decoupled semantic NeRF formulation (Section III-C) and the
physics-guided adaptive clustering algorithm (Section III-E)
constitute our novel contributions. The framework assumes
that each fruit instance is approximately convex and at least
partially visible from the camera trajectory, so that its surface
can be reconstructed with suﬃcient point density for reliable
normal estimation.
B. Structure-From-Motion Preliminaries
Training a Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) requires robust
camera poses and intrinsics, which are typically obtained via
a Structure-from-Motion (SfM) pipeline. Given an unordered
image set I = {I1, . . . , IN}, the initial step is to establish
geometric correspondences by matching features across views.
For a feature i in image Ik with 2D coordinates u(k)
i
∈R2 and
descriptor d(k)
i , the matching process identiﬁes pairs between
images (Ip, Iq) that satisfy ∥d(p)
i
−d(q)
j ∥2 < ϵ, where ϵ is a
similarity threshold.
Once matches are established, the camera projection is
modeled. Each camera k is deﬁned by an intrinsic matrix Kk
and extrinsic parameters (rotation Rk ∈S O(3) and translation
tk ∈R3). The perspective projection from a 3D world point
X = [X, Y, Z]T to its 2D image projection u = [u, v]T is given
by:
λ
2
4
u
v
1
3
5 = Kk[Rk|tk]
2
664
X
Y
Z
1
3
775
(1)
where λ is a depth scale factor. The intrinsic matrix is
parameterized as Kk =
2
4
fk
0
cx
0
fk
cy
0
0
1
3
5, assuming a shared
focal length fk.
Finally, the SfM pipeline reﬁnes all camera parameters and
the 3D scene structure by solving a large-scale non-linear
optimization known as Bundle Adjustment (BA). This process
minimizes the total reprojection error-the discrepancy between
projected 3D points and their observed 2D feature locations.
The objective function is:
arg min
{Kk,Rk,tk},{X j}
N
X
k=1
X
j∈Vk
ρ
π
 Kk, Rk, tk, Xj

−u(k)
j

2
2

(2)
Here, Vk is the set of 3D points visible in image Ik, π(·)
is the projection function, and ρ(·) is a robust cost function
(e.g., Cauchy loss) to reduce the inﬂuence of outliers. This
optimization yields a set of reﬁned camera parameters and a
sparse 3D point cloud, providing the essential geometric priors
for subsequent NeRF training.
C. Instance-Decoupled Reconstruction With Semantic
Guidance
Our framework employs semantic-aware neural reconstruc-
tion to achieve instance-level decomposition, enabling precise
segregation of target objects from cluttered backgrounds.
As illustrated in Fig. 2, our approach extends the classical
NeRF by jointly modeling scene appearance and semantics.
The model comprises three core components:
• Density Field: Fσ : x →σ, maps a 3D coordinate x ∈R3
to a volume density σ ∈R.
• Appearance Field: Fc : (x, d) →c, maps a coordinate x
and viewing direction d ∈S2 to an RGB color c ∈R3.
• Semantic Field: Fs : x →s, maps a coordinate x
to a semantic logit s ∈R to distinguish target from
background. Crucially, Fs is conditioned only on position
and the gradient of the semantic loss is back-propagated
solely through Fs, so the learned fruit occupancy is
invariant to view-dependent illumination eﬀects.
1) Volume Rendering: For a camera ray r(t) = o + td, we
sample K points along the ray to compute the pixel’s color and
semantic values. The color ˆC(r) is rendered via the equation:
ˆC(r) =
K
X
k=1
T (tk) αv (σ (tk) δk) c (tk)
(3)
where T (tk) = exp

−Pk−1
a=1 σ (ta) δa

is the accumulated
transmittance, αv(x) = 1−exp(−x) is the absorption probability,
and δk is the distance between adjacent samples.
Similarly, the semantic logit ˆS (r) is rendered as:
ˆS (r) =
K
X
k=1
T (tk) αv (σ (tk) δk) s (tk)
(4)
where s (tk) is the semantic logit at the sample point. The
corresponding semantic probability is obtained via the sigmoid
activation ˆp(r) = σg( ˆS (r)) ∈[0, 1], where σg(·) denotes the
logistic sigmoid (distinguished from the density σ).
D. Point Cloud Extraction From the Reconstructed Volume
For subsequent analysis, we export the semantically recon-
structed scene as a point cloud. We use a ray-marching
technique with an orthographic camera setup to sample
the
continuous
volumetric
representation.
For
each
ray
r(t) = o + td, we sample points xk at ﬁxed intervals.
At each sample point xk, we query the density ﬁeld to obtain
σk = Fσ (xk) and the semantic probability ˆpk = σg(Fs(xk)).
A point is retained if its density exceeds the density
threshold τσ (indicating proximity to a surface) and its seman-
tic probability exceeds the semantic threshold τs (indicating
fruit class). The ﬁnal point cloud P is deﬁned as:
P = {xk | σk > τσ ∧ˆpk > τs}
(5)
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:47:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

WANG et al.: SEMANTIC NeRF-ORIENTED 3-D OBJECT COUNTING FOR INDUSTRIAL FRUIT HARVESTING
11405
Fig. 2. Overview of the proposed counting framework. The pipeline comprises three sequential stages: SfM-based pose recovery, semantic neural rendering
(producing a fruit-only point cloud P), and physics-guided adaptive clustering (producing the fruit count). Coloured points in the clustering stage indicate
distinct fruit instances.
To ensure comprehensive coverage, points sampled from all
six orthographic views are aggregated. This multi-view sam-
pling enhances the point cloud’s density and completeness,
mitigating occlusions present in any single perspective.
E. Adaptive Physics-Guided Point Cloud Segmentation
We propose an adaptive, shape-based point cloud clustering
method to accurately estimate fruit counts from the recon-
structed point cloud. Our approach is distinguished by two key
innovations. First, it employs shape-based clustering, which
leverages geometric information such as surface normals rather
than relying solely on Euclidean distance or point density,
thereby capturing the morphological characteristics of fruits
more accurately. Second, its adaptive nature eliminates the
need to manually specify the number of clusters or density
thresholds, enhancing robustness to initial conditions via auto-
mated representative selection and dynamic thresholding. The
proposed method consists of three main steps: point cloud
preprocessing, adaptive clustering, and counting.
1) Point Cloud Preprocessing: Given an input fruit point
cloud P =
˚
pj
	M
j=1 extracted from the 3D reconstruction,
where pj =
 xj, y j, zj

, we ﬁrst preprocess the data to improve
the eﬃciency and quality of subsequent clustering. The process
begins with downsampling, where a voxel grid ﬁlter is applied
to reduce the point cloud resolution to a uniform grid size
v, yielding a downsampled point cloud P′ =
˚
p′
k
	M′
k=1 and
reducing computational complexity. This step also enforces a
uniform spatial resolution across fruit types of diﬀerent sizes,
which makes the dynamic threshold below scale-invariant.
Following this, a statistical outlier removal ﬁlter is employed
to eliminate noise points based on an outlier-distance threshold
τout derived from the average distance to neighbouring points,
producing a clean point cloud for clustering.
2) Adaptive Clustering: Adaptive clustering forms the core
of our method, designed to identify individual fruit instances
from the preprocessed point cloud P′ without manual inter-
vention. This is achieved through automatic representative
selection and shape-based dynamic threshold clustering.
a) Automatic
representative
selection:
Conventional
clustering approaches often rely on predeﬁned parameters
that do not adapt well to variable fruit morphologies.
To overcome this, we formulate an adaptive framework based
on energy function optimization to automatically determine
optimal cluster representatives while maintaining spatial con-
sistency. The framework operates without prior assumptions
about the number of clusters, as deﬁned by the following
objective function:
E =
M′
X
i=1
K
min
j=1 d
 p′
i, r j

+ λK
(6)
where p′
i
∈P′ is a point, r j is the j-th representative,
d(·, ·) is the Euclidean distance, and λ is a regularization
parameter controlling the number of representatives. The
objective is to minimize E, balancing the distance from points
to their nearest representatives against the total number of rep-
resentatives. We solve this using a bottom-up merging strategy.
The algorithm is initialized by setting the representative set to
be the entire point cloud, R = P′, and initializing λ as the
median of nearest neighbor distances. In each iteration, for
every representative ri, its nearest neighbor rj is identiﬁed, and
the energy change ∆E = λ−(points managed by r j)×d(ri, r j)
upon merging is computed. If ∆E > 0, the representatives
are merged, and the set R is updated. After each iteration, λ is
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:47:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

11406
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AUTOMATION SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING, VOL. 23, 2026
doubled to progressively reduce the number of representatives.
The doubling schedule λ ←2λ is chosen because the optimal
cluster count scales approximately as K∗∝1/λ; doubling
therefore halves the expected number of remaining represen-
tatives at each step and guarantees convergence in O(log M′)
iterations. The process continues until |∆E| < 10−4, yielding
the ﬁnal representative set R =
˚
r j
	K
j=1.
b) Shape-based dynamic threshold clustering: Using the
ﬁnal representative set R, we employ a depth-ﬁrst search (DFS)
to cluster the point cloud, assigning each point p′
i to its nearest
representative. To enhance accuracy, we incorporate surface
normal information and a dynamic threshold. The normal ni
of each point is estimated via principal component analysis
(PCA) of its local neighborhood. The dynamic threshold, θ, is
deﬁned as:
θ = α · δ ·
p′
i −p′
j

ˇˇˇp′
i,z −p′
j,z
ˇˇˇ · arccos
 κ
 ni · nj

(7)
This threshold integrates three complementary geometric cues
that together provide a suﬃcient description of a fruit bound-
ary. The normal-consistency term arccos(κ(ni · nj)) detects the
sharp angular discontinuity that appears at the crease between
two touching convex fruits, which is the dominant signal
when fruits are in direct contact and distance-based cues fail.
The elevation-gradient term |p′
i,z −p′
j,z|/∥p′
i −p′
j∥captures the
height-proﬁle discontinuity of vertically stacked fruits, and is
complementary to the normal cue where adjacency is near-
tangential. The local density δ weights both cues by the
reconstruction reliability of the local region, tightening the
threshold in sparse or occluded areas and relaxing it in well-
sampled ones. Because horizontal and vertical contacts are
the two principal contact modes in gravity-aligned orchard
scenes, these cues provide suﬃcient coverage of the boundary
geometries encountered in practice. Here, α is a scalar adjust-
ment factor that scales the composite score to the Euclidean
distance units used by the DFS expansion, and κ(·) is a clipping
function that conﬁnes the dot product to the valid input range
of arccos to avoid ﬂoating-point-induced numerical failure.
The clustering process is detailed in Algorithm 1.
3) Fruit Counting: Finally, the fruit count is estimated from
the optimised clusters
n
C′
j
oK
j=1. Each cluster C′
j is treated as a
potential fruit instance. We compute the convex-hull volume
of each cluster:
Vj = ConvexHull
 C′
j

.volume
(8)
No externally speciﬁed reference volume is required: we
derive the reference directly from the clustering output as the
median of the per-cluster volumes,
Vref = median
 {Vj}K
j=1

,
(9)
which is robust to under- or over-segmented outliers since the
median has a 50% breakdown point. The per-cluster fruit count
Algorithm 1 Adaptive Shape-Based Clustering for Fruit
Counting
Input: Preprocessed point cloud P′ = {p′
k}M′
k=1, regulariza-
tion parameter λ, adjustment factor α
Output: Fruit count N
Initialization: Set representative set R = P′, initialize λ as
the median of nearest neighbor distances
Step 1: Automatic Representative Selection
while energy E not converged (|∆E| > 10−4) do
Update representatives R by merging based on energy
change ∆E
Adjust λ ←2 × λ
end while
Obtain ﬁnal representatives R = {r j}K
j=1
Step 2: Adaptive Clustering with Shape Features
for each point p′
i in P′ do
Compute normal ni using PCA
Assign p′
i to nearest representative r j with dynamic
threshold θ from Eq. (7)
Expand cluster C j using DFS
end for
Step 3: Cluster Boundary Optimization
while clusters not converged do
Reassign points to dominant cluster labels in their neigh-
borhood
end while
Obtain optimized clusters {C′
j}K
j=1
Step 4: Fruit Counting
Compute V j for each cluster via Eq. (8); compute Vref via
Eq. (9)
for each cluster C′
j do
Estimate count j via Eq. (10)
end for
Compute total fruit count N = PK
j=1 count j
is then assigned by comparing Vj to Vref within a tolerance
band:
count j =
8
ˆ<
ˆ:
1,
if 0.9Vref ≤Vj ≤1.1Vref,

V j/Vref

,
if Vj > 1.1Vref,
0,
if Vj < 0.9Vref.
(10)
The ﬁrst case handles single-fruit clusters; the second han-
dles multi-fruit (under-segmented) clusters, exploiting that the
convex-hull volume of n touching convex fruits scales approx-
imately linearly in n; the third ﬁlters out noise fragments.
The total count is N = PK
j=1 count j. This volume-based
rule is parameter-free and adapts across fruit types (because
Vref is recomputed per scene), in contrast to template-matching
approaches that require a predeﬁned exemplar.
The overall complexity of the clustering pipeline is
O(M′ log2 M′), dominated by the energy-minimisation step,
which is near-linear in the point count and scales gracefully
to large orchard scenes.
IV. EXPERIMENT
This section details the experimental evaluation of our pro-
posed object counting framework. We ﬁrst outline the datasets
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:47:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

WANG et al.: SEMANTIC NeRF-ORIENTED 3-D OBJECT COUNTING FOR INDUSTRIAL FRUIT HARVESTING
11407
Fig. 3. Visualisation of the synthetic dataset with three controlled fruit-density levels.
Fig. 4. Rendered example images for all eight fruit types in the synthetic dataset: apple, plum, lemon, pear, peach, mango, strawberry, and blueberry.
and experimental setup, followed by a comparative analysis
against state-of-the-art methods. We then provide a qualita-
tive analysis through visualisations, investigate the impact of
various factors via ablation, and report the computational cost.
A. Datasets and Evaluation Protocol
For our evaluation, we utilise publicly available synthetic
and real-world datasets from FruitNeRF [3], supplemented
by the Fuji-SfM dataset [31], to ensure objectivity and
comparability. We report Accuracy (Acc), Recall, F1-score,
Mean Absolute Error (MAE), and Root Mean Squared Error
(RMSE). Here, Acc = 1 −|Npred −Ngt|/Ngt denotes scene-
level counting accuracy, whereas Recall and F1-score are
computed from instance-level fruit matching. For the 2D
baselines in Table II, the ﬁrst-column values follow the
precision numbers reported in the original papers because
scene-level count accuracy is not available. The same hyper-
parameter suite is used across all datasets without per-dataset
tuning.
1) Synthetic Dataset:
The synthetic dataset, generated
using Blender with the BlenderNeRF plugin [30], com-
prises eight fruit types: apple, plum, lemon, pear, peach,
mango, strawberry, and blueberry. Each tree is represented
by 300 images at a resolution of 1024 × 1024 px. To enable
systematic performance assessment, the dataset features con-
trolled variations across two dimensions: occlusion level and
fruit density, categorised into three levels based on inter-
fruit spacing: sparse (> 5 cm), medium (2–5 cm), and
dense (< 2 cm), as visualised in Figure 3. Ground-truth
counts are read directly from the scene graph, eliminating
annotation uncertainty. Rendered examples for all eight fruit
types are shown in Figure 4. Note that the strawberry and
blueberry scenes are modelled with suﬃcient spatial separation
that each berry is at least partially visible from the camera
hemisphere; the most extreme natural clustering conﬁgurations
of these two species, in which inner berries are permanently
occluded, fall outside the applicability scope of any multi-view
reconstruction pipeline.
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:47:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

11408
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AUTOMATION SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING, VOL. 23, 2026
TABLE I
SOFTWARE LIBRARIES AND TOOLS USED IN THE MAIN PIPELINE STAGES
2) Real-World Dataset: The real-world evaluation uses the
three apple-tree scenes (Tree 01–03) from the FruitNeRF
benchmark (approx. 350 images per tree at 1000 × 1500 px,
captured with a Nikon D7100 at 35 mm focal length, with
per-tree ground-truth counts 179/113/291 obtained by on-site
manual counting), together with the Fuji-SfM dataset [31],
which contains 11 Fuji apple trees in a single row with
582 images and per-fruit 3D annotations. We adopt both
datasets and their published ground truth without modiﬁcation.
B. Experiment Setup
All experiments are conducted on an NVIDIA RTX 3090
GPU with an AMD Ryzen 9 5950X CPU, running Ubuntu
22.04 with CUDA 11.8. The main software components
are summarised in Table I. Unless otherwise stated, the
ﬁxed implementation constants are: orthographic ray step
∆s = 0.004 (normalised units), density threshold τσ = 0.01,
semantic threshold τs = 0.5, voxel size v = 0.01 m, statistical-
outlier k = 20, outlier multiplier σth = 2.0, normal-estimation
radius rn = 0.05 m with kn = 8 neighbours, adjustment
factor α = 0.5, λ0 initialised as the median nearest-neighbour
distance and doubled each iteration, and κ(x) = max(−1 +
ε, min(1 −ε, x)) with ε = 10−6.
We evaluate our method against 2D and 3D baselines on
all datasets. To analyse the eﬀect of the upstream semantic
segmentation and reconstruction, we compare two segmen-
tation strategies—a pre-trained Grounded-SAM model [32]
prompted with “fruit” and a U-Net instance-segmentation
model [33] trained on annotated data—and two NeRF capac-
ities: a Small model (2 hidden layers, 64 units) and a Large
model (3 layers, 128 units).
Model training is guided by a joint loss function comprising
a photometric loss and a semantic loss. The photometric loss
measures the mean squared error (MSE) between rendered and
ground-truth pixel colors:
LPhoto = 1
|R|
X
r∈R
∥C(r) −ˆC(r)∥2
2
(11)
where R is the set of sampled rays, and C(r) and ˆC(r) are the
ground-truth and predicted colors, respectively.
The semantic loss employs binary cross-entropy (BCE) to
optimize the classiﬁcation between target (fruit) and back-
ground:
LSem = −1
|R|
X
r∈R

p(r) log ˆp(r) + (1 −p(r)) log(1 −ˆp(r))

(12)
where p(r) ∈{0, 1} is the ground-truth label, and ˆp(r) =
σg( ˆS (r)) is the predicted probability. The total loss is a sum
of these two components:
L = LPhoto + LSem
(13)
Crucially, the gradient of LSem is back-propagated only
through Fs and not through the shared Density Field, prevent-
ing the density estimate from collapsing to fruit-only surfaces.
C. Experiment Results
1) Quantitative Results: To validate the eﬃcacy of our
proposed method, we conduct extensive experiments on
three distinct datasets: a synthetic dataset, a real-world
dataset, and the Fuji dataset. Our approach is benchmarked
against a comprehensive suite of baseline methods, encom-
passing density-based techniques (GMN [34], FamNet [35],
CounTR [36]), detection-based approaches (FR [37], FSOD
[38], PseCo [39]), and the state-of-the-art 3D counting method,
FruitNeRF [3]. Given the scarcity of methods for fruit counting
in the 3D domain, we selected the most representative and
advanced model, FruitNeRF, for comparison. Table II presents
the quantitative comparison across all datasets using the ﬁve
standard evaluation metrics: Acc, Recall, F1-score, MAE,
and RMSE.
On the synthetic dataset, 2D methods exhibit varied per-
formance. CounTR demonstrates robust performance with an
F1-score of 0.818 and an MAE of 18.74. In contrast, FR
records a markedly lower F1-score of 0.570 and a substantial
MAE of 44.17, reﬂecting inferior performance, while PseCo
achieves a moderate F1-score of 0.700. This trend persists
in real-world datasets, where CounTR maintains high eﬃcacy
(F1 0.833, MAE 19.27), whereas GMN and FSOD display
larger errors, with MAEs of 31.39 and 35.76, respectively.
On the challenging Fuji dataset, which emulates complex
agricultural scenarios, CounTR’s F1-score declines to 0.721,
indicating performance limitations under intricate conditions.
Although these methods perform adeptly in single-view sce-
narios, their eﬃcacy diminishes in complex three-dimensional
environments. Lacking an understanding of spatial distribu-
tions, these methods are unable to eﬀectively distinguish
the same target across diﬀerent viewpoints, which results in
redundant counting.
In contrast, FruitNeRF signiﬁcantly enhances counting
accuracy by reformulating the problem in a three-dimensional
space, achieving F1 = 0.750 / MAE = 15.75 / RMSE = 31.42
on synthetic, F1 = 0.783 / MAE = 16.94 / RMSE = 25.87
on real-world, and F1 = 0.760 / MAE = 20.86 / RMSE =
47.36 on Fuji. However, its performance is constrained by
its reliance on the DBSCAN clustering algorithm and prede-
ﬁned object templates: the initialisation process signiﬁcantly
impacts clustering performance, and the morphological vari-
ability of real-world fruits makes precise counting with
predeﬁned templates diﬃcult.
Our
proposed
method
builds
upon
the
3D
counting
paradigm by integrating adaptive point-cloud clustering with
the fusion of geometric features, thereby enhancing both
accuracy and robustness. We achieve Acc:0.996, F1:0.977,
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:47:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

WANG et al.: SEMANTIC NeRF-ORIENTED 3-D OBJECT COUNTING FOR INDUSTRIAL FRUIT HARVESTING
11409
TABLE II
QUANTITATIVE COMPARISONS ON THE THREE DATASETS. THE FIRST AND SECOND PARTS CONTAIN THE DENSITY-BASED AND DETECTION-BASED
METHODS. THE THIRD PART FOCUSES ON THE STATE-OF-THE-ART COUNTING METHODS IN THREE-DIMENSIONAL SCENES. THE BEST RESULTS
ARE SHOWN IN BOLD. HERE, ACC DENOTES SCENE-LEVEL COUNTING ACCURACY 1 −|Npred −Ngt|/Ngt FOR THE 3D METHODS; FOR THE
2D BASELINES, THE FIRST-COLUMN VALUES ARE THE PRECISION NUMBERS REPORTED IN THEIR ORIGINAL PAPERS
Fig. 5.
Qualitative counting results for 3D methods on the dense mango and apple scenes. Coloured points denote per-cluster assignments. Our method
correctly separates touching fruits at the canopy apex and base, where FruitNeRF exhibits missed detections and merged clusters.
MAE:13.26, RMSE:25.38 on synthetic, Acc:0.979, F1:0.960,
MAE:14.15, RMSE:19.33 on real-world, and Acc:0.916,
F1:0.840, MAE:16.14, RMSE:34.84 on Fuji, consistently
outperforming FruitNeRF across all datasets. These results
demonstrate stronger robustness to variation in fruit type,
morphology, and scene complexity, as further validated by the
statistical signiﬁcance test below.
Statistical
signiﬁcance. To assess whether the MAE
improvements over FruitNeRF are statistically signiﬁcant,
we performed a paired Wilcoxon signed-rank test [44] on
per-tree MAE values from the real-world apple dataset
(Trees 01–03) and the Fuji-SfM dataset (11 trees), totalling
n = 14 paired observations. All 14 per-tree MAE diﬀerences
favour our method, yielding the maximum possible test statis-
tic W+ = 105 and a two-sided p-value p < 0.001, well below
the α = 0.01 signiﬁcance level.
Accuracy improvement. The accuracy gains over Fruit-
NeRF, expressed as absolute diﬀerences in Acc (percentage
points), are 6.9 pp on synthetic, 7.2 pp on real-world, and
12.9 pp on Fuji.
2) Qualitative Results: Figure 5 illustrates the qualitative
results of the 3D counting methods. While 2D approaches
such as CounTR can manage counting tasks from a single
perspective, they inadequately address the issue of redundant
counting inherent in 3D scenes. Our comparative analysis
therefore focuses on the 3D method, FruitNeRF.
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:47:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

11410
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AUTOMATION SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING, VOL. 23, 2026
TABLE III
RECONSTRUCTION QUALITY OF SEMANTIC NERF WITH DIFFERENT SEGMENTATION METHODS ON PEAR, MANGO, AND LEMON DATASETS
TABLE IV
QUANTITATIVE COMPARISONS OF COUNTING PERFORMANCE ON PEAR, MANGO, AND LEMON DATASETS.
HERE, ACC DENOTES SCENE-LEVEL COUNTING ACCURACY 1 −|Npred −Ngt|/Ngt
TABLE V
ABLATION STUDY ON THE REGULARIZATION PARAMETER λ. THIS TABLE SHOWS THE SENSITIVITY OF THE MODEL’S PERFORMANCE METRICS (ACC,
RECALL, F1-SCORE, AND MAE) TO VARIATIONS IN THE INITIAL λ VALUE, SCALED BY A FACTOR β. HERE, ACC DENOTES SCENE-LEVEL
COUNTING ACCURACY 1 −|Npred −Ngt|/Ngt. THE BEST RESULT IN EACH COLUMN IS SHOWN IN BOLD
As depicted in Figs. 5(b) and 5(d), our method achieves
more precise detection of fruits under high-density distribu-
tions, yielding counting results that more closely align with
the ground truth. Moreover, in comparison with FruitNeRF,
our approach exhibits a lower rate of missed detections. Even
at the apex and base of the fruit trees, where enumeration is
diﬃcult, our method still produces accurate counts. Among the
eight fruit types in the synthetic dataset, the pear (781 fruits)
and mango (1150 fruits) scenes represent the most challenging
dense-fruit conﬁgurations among the quantitatively analysed
cases; our method achieves F1-scores of 0.96 and 0.95, respec-
tively, on these scenes (Large NeRF + U-Net; see Table IV),
demonstrating that the physics-guided clustering scales eﬀec-
tively to scenes with over a thousand densely packed fruits per
tree. Qualitative results for strawberry and blueberry, under
the individually-resolvable modelling conditions described in
Section IV-A, are shown in Figure 6.
D. Ablation Study
In the ablation experiments, we explore the impacts of dif-
ferent factors on counting accuracy: reconstruction model size
Fig. 6.
Qualitative counting results for strawberry and blueberry under
individually-resolvable modelling conditions. Yellow spheres = ground-truth
fruit centres; red spheres = predicted cluster centres.
and segmentation strategy (Tables III and IV), the sensitivity
to the regularisation parameter λ (Table V), and the eﬀect
of voxel-grid downsampling on the cost–accuracy trade-oﬀ
(Table VI).
The size of the reconstruction model signiﬁcantly inﬂu-
ences counting accuracy across all datasets. We employed two
reconstruction models of diﬀerent sizes. The speciﬁc details
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:47:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

WANG et al.: SEMANTIC NeRF-ORIENTED 3-D OBJECT COUNTING FOR INDUSTRIAL FRUIT HARVESTING
11411
TABLE VI
EFFECT OF VOXEL GRID SIZE v ON POINT COUNT, CLUSTERING
RUNTIME, AND COUNTING ACCURACY (SYNTHETIC DATASET,
APPLE SCENE AS REPRESENTATIVE)
are as described in the previous text, and we refer to them
as Small NeRF and Large NeRF. Large NeRF consistently
outperforms Small NeRF in counting metrics, particularly in
F1-score and MAE. For instance, on the Mango dataset, Large
NeRF with U-Net achieves an F1-score of 0.95 and MAE
of 13.0, compared to Small NeRF with U-Net’s F1-score
of 0.93 and MAE of 14.0. Similarly, on the Lemon dataset,
Large NeRF with U-Net yields an F1-score of 0.94, surpassing
Small NeRF’s 0.92. These results suggest that Large NeRF’s
enhanced capacity to capture complex scene representations
improves the quality of reconstructed inputs, thereby boosting
counting precision. Small NeRF, while slightly competitive in
reconstruction quality on the Pear dataset, fails to match Large
NeRF’s counting performance, indicating that model capacity
is critical for downstream tasks.
The choice of segmentation method also plays a pivotal
role in counting accuracy. U-Net consistently outperforms
SAM, particularly when paired with Large NeRF. On the
Pear dataset, Large NeRF with U-Net achieves an F1-score
of 0.96 and MAE of 12.3, signiﬁcantly better than Large
NeRF with SAM’s F1-score of 0.90 and MAE of 16.5. This
trend holds across datasets, with U-Net improving IoU scores,
which directly enhance the quality of reconstructed inputs
for counting. For example, on the Mango dataset, U-Net
yields an IoU of 0.60 compared to SAM’s 0.52, correlating
with better counting metrics. U-Net’s superior segmentation
precision ensures more accurate object delineation, which is
critical for reliable counting, whereas SAM’s lower IoU limits
its eﬀectiveness.
To investigate the method’s sensitivity to the regularization
parameter λ, we conducted an ablation study on its initial-
ization. Our method automatically initializes λ as the median
of nearest neighbor distances, which corresponds to a scaling
factor of β = 1.0. We analyzed the performance by varying
this initial λ with diﬀerent β factors, with the results presented
in Table V.
The quantitative results demonstrate that our framework
maintains high performance within a stable range around
the automatic initialization. On the Synthetic and Real-
World datasets, the F1-score remains robust (F1 > 0.95)
for β values between 0.80 and 1.00. On the Synthetic dataset,
the F1-score peaks at 0.977 for our proposed β = 1.0.
Similarly, on the Real-World dataset, our β = 1.0 achieves
the peak F1-score of 0.960. Crucially, our automatic initial-
ization strategy (β = 1.0) consistently yields the lowest MAE
(13.26 and 14.15) on these two datasets.
Performance degrades signiﬁcantly only at extreme values
of β. When β is set too low (e.g., β ≤0.25), the low
regularization penalty leads to severe over-segmentation. This
is reﬂected by high Recall but poor scene-level counting
accuracy (e.g., Acc = 0.865 on Synthetic at β = 0.25), because
the resulting over-count inﬂates the total-count error and drives
the MAE sharply upward. Conversely, when β is set too high
(e.g., β ≥5.0), the high penalty causes aggressive merging and
under-segmentation. This is evidenced by a catastrophic drop
in Recall (e.g., 0.640 on Synthetic and 0.400 on Fuji) and the
highest MAE values across all datasets.
On the more challenging Fuji dataset, the optimal F1-score
(0.931) is achieved at β = 0.80. This is slightly higher than
our automatic β = 1.0 (F1 = 0.840), which is consistent with
the dataset’s high recall (0.970) at the baseline, indicating a
tendency toward over-segmentation. However, β = 1.0 yields
the lowest MAE (16.14) on the Fuji dataset, conﬁrming it
as the most balanced choice for count-error minimization.
This analysis conﬁrms that our automatic initialization is an
eﬀective and reliable choice, and that the energy optimization
framework is stable even with moderate deviations in this
parameter.
Eﬀect of voxel-grid downsampling: The voxel-grid ﬁlter
reduces the number of points entering clustering and stan-
dardises the spatial resolution, both of which aﬀect cost
and accuracy. We varied the voxel size v from 0.005 m
to 0.020 m and measured the clustering runtime and the
counting F1-score on the synthetic dataset (apple scene as
representative; Table VI). For v ≤0.010 m the F1-score stays
in a narrow plateau of 0.977–0.978, and the ﬁnest resolution
(v = 0.005) is not better (and marginally worse), because
excessively dense point clouds amplify noise in PCA-based
normal estimation. Beyond v = 0.010 m, accuracy degrades
as the ﬁne-scale geometric signatures at inter-fruit creases are
averaged away within a single voxel. The default v = 0.010 m
therefore occupies a practical sweet spot of the cost–accuracy
trade-oﬀ: it is within 0.001 F1 and 0.2 MAE of the best-
performing setting (v = 0.008 m) while reducing clustering
time by more than 20× relative to the raw point cloud and by
4.4× relative to the ﬁnest tested resolution.
E. Computational Cost and Runtime Analysis
To assess practical deployability, we measured the wall-
clock time of each pipeline stage and compared the overall
cost with FruitNeRF and 2D baselines. All measurements use
the hardware described in Section IV-B, with input images at
1024 × 1024 px (synthetic) and 1000 × 1500 px (real-world),
averaged over three independent runs. Table VII reports the
per-stage runtime, and Table VIII gives a per-image timing
reference for representative 2D baselines. NeRF training dom-
inates the full pipeline (> 95% of total time) and is shared
between FruitNeRF and our method. Our physics-guided clus-
tering adds a 4-second overhead in the clustering sub-step
(22 s vs. 18 s) but saves 5 s in the counting sub-step
(2.7× speed-up: 3 s vs. 8 s, due to the parameter-free
volume-based counting replacing template matching), for a net
1-second reduction in the post-NeRF stage (72±3 s vs. 73±3 s
for FruitNeRF). Relative to the total pipeline budget, this
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:47:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

11412
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AUTOMATION SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING, VOL. 23, 2026
TABLE VII
PER-STAGE RUNTIME (MEAN ± STD). NERF TRAINING TIMES ARE
IDENTICAL BECAUSE THE BACKBONE IS UNCHANGED.
POST-NERF TOTAL IS THE PRACTICALLY RELEVANT
RUNTIME FOR REPEATED YIELD ESTIMATION
TABLE VIII
INFERENCE-TIME REFERENCE FOR REPRESENTATIVE 2D BASELINES
(PER IMAGE). THESE METHODS ARE FAST PER IMAGE BUT REQUIRE
ADDITIONAL TRACKING OR DEDUPLICATION
TO HANDLE MULTI-VIEW COUNTING
TABLE IX
F1-SCORE UNDER THREE CONTROLLED DENSITY CONDITIONS
(AVERAGED ACROSS EIGHT FRUIT TYPES, MEAN ± STD)
change is well under 0.1%, meaning the substantial accuracy
improvement comes at virtually no additional computational
cost. Compared with 2D baselines, per-image inference is
faster (∼0.2–0.4 s) but those methods do not inherently resolve
multi-view duplicate counting, which our 3D framework elim-
inates by construction.
V. DISCUSSION
In this section we interpret the results beyond the raw
numbers: how performance varies with fruit density, how the
framework behaves under diﬀerent lighting conditions, and
what the two representative failure modes reveal about the
operational envelope of the method.
A. Performance Across Fruit Density Levels
Table IX reports F1-scores under the three controlled density
conditions in the synthetic dataset, averaged across all eight
fruit types. These three per-density averages are weighted
across the synthetic dataset’s fruit-type distribution to recover
the Synthetic F1 of 0.75 (FruitNeRF) and 0.977 (Ours)
TABLE X
COUNTING PERFORMANCE UNDER FOUR CONTROLLED LIGHTING
CONDITIONS (SYNTHETIC DATASET, APPLE SCENE AS
REPRESENTATIVE). HERE, ACC DENOTES SCENE-
LEVEL COUNTING ACCURACY 1 −|Npred −Ngt|/Ngt
reported in Table II. The performance gap over FruitNeRF
widens as density increases: at sparse density both methods
perform well, but at dense density (physical contact, inter-
fruit distance < 2 cm) FruitNeRF’s F1 drops to 0.643 while
ours remains at 0.966. The reason is structural rather than
parametric. When two fruits are in contact, their Euclidean
separation is zero, so no distance threshold—regardless of
tuning—can separate them, which is why DBSCAN-based
pipelines collapse in this regime. Our physics-guided approach
exploits the fact that the normal ﬁeld still exhibits a
sharp discontinuity at the contact crease: arccos(κ(ni · nj))
approaches π at the junction of two convex surfaces, which
places a large factor in the denominator of Eq. (7) and sup-
presses θ precisely at the boundary, enforcing a segmentation
cut. The high F1 at dense density is therefore a genuine
algorithmic advantage, not the product of parameter tuning.
B. Robustness to Lighting Conditions
In real-world orchards, the relative geometry between
camera, sun, and fruit surface changes continuously, pro-
ducing direct illumination, partial shadow, and specular
highlights on the same fruit across diﬀerent frames. Our
framework absorbs these eﬀects through the structural design
of the NeRF components: the view-conditioned Appearance
Field absorbs specular highlights and directional shadows,
while the position-only Semantic Field produces consistent
fruit logits regardless of lighting angle. The physics-guided
clustering operates exclusively on geometry, further insulat-
ing the ﬁnal count from any residual photometric eﬀects.
To quantify this robustness, we conﬁgured four controlled
lighting scenarios in the Blender synthetic environment
(Figure 7); counting performance under each is reported
in Table X. Accuracy remains consistently high across all
four conditions, with the moderate decrease under backlight
(∆F1 = 0.032) attributable to the reduced quality of upstream
segmentation
masks
in
high-contrast
silhouette
regions.
Under truly extreme conditions (near-darkness, severe over-
exposure), photometric supervision becomes uninformative
and reconstruction quality will degrade, but such conditions
fall outside the normal operating envelope of ﬁeld data
acquisition.
C. Failure Cases and Applicability Scope
Two representative failure modes delineate the operational
envelope of the method.
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:47:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

WANG et al.: SEMANTIC NeRF-ORIENTED 3-D OBJECT COUNTING FOR INDUSTRIAL FRUIT HARVESTING
11413
Fig. 7. Representative input images under four common orchard lighting conditions: (a) normal daylight, (b) strong direct sunlight, (c) weak/diﬀuse light,
(d) backlight.
Fig. 8. Failure case 1: Fuji-SfM Tree 3. A constrained linear camera trajectory
produces incomplete point clouds at the canopy periphery (red = predicted
cluster centres, yellow = ground-truth centres).
Case 1: insuﬃcient hemispherical coverage. Tree 3 of the
Fuji-SfM dataset lies at the end of a multi-tree row, where the
capture trajectory is constrained to a partial arc rather than a
complete hemispherical orbit. Fruits at the canopy periphery
are observed from a limited angular range, yielding incomplete
point clouds and unreliable normal estimates. The clustering
stage consequently under-segments fruit groups at the canopy
extremities (Figure 8). This is fundamentally an acquisition-
geometry problem: when the same tree is re-scanned with a
complete orbit, accuracy recovers to the level of Trees 01–02.
This motivates acquisition-protocol guidance (minimum orbit
arc and minimum number of viewpoints per fruit) as future
work.
Case 2: permanently occluded cluster-internal fruits.
In dense blueberry clusters (Figure 9), inner berries are
completely surrounded by outer layers and remain invisible
from any external viewpoint. The NeRF converges to a single
opaque outer shell, and the point cloud lacks the per-berry
geometry that our clustering needs. This is a fundamental lim-
itation shared by all multi-view reconstruction-based counting
pipelines: invisible fruits cannot be reconstructed from RGB
observations alone. Overcoming this requires complementary
sensing modalities or generative priors about bunch structure.
Based on these cases, the framework is applicable to fruits
satisfying two conditions: (C1) approximate convexity, so that
normals reverse at inter-fruit contact boundaries; and (C2)
Fig. 9. Failure case 2: densely occluded blueberry cluster. Inner berries that
are never visible from any viewpoint cannot be reconstructed; the NeRF yields
only the outer shell, which is correctly recognised as a single convex surface
and thus counted as one instance (red = predicted cluster, yellow = ground-
truth berry centres).
individual resolvability, i.e., each fruit is at least partially vis-
ible from the camera trajectory. Fruits satisfying both include
apples, pears, lemons, peaches, mangoes, plums, and tomatoes
(including those in physical contact on a truss). Fruits violating
(C2) due to cluster-internal occlusion—such as inner berries
in grape bunches or tightly packed blueberry clusters—are
outside the applicability scope of our current framework.
Additionally, the NeRF assumption of scene rigidity is violated
by wind-induced motion of branches and fruit; robust-loss
formulations such as RobustNeRF [45] are a straightforward
extension to mitigate this in future work.
VI. CONCLUSION
This paper introduces a dual-framework that integrates
3D neural reconstruction and physics-guided adaptive clus-
tering to address object counting in occluded, clustered 3D
scenes. To address the limitations of 2D methods that suf-
fer from duplicate counting when aggregating multi-view
observations, we employ a semantic NeRF to reconstruct
the
scene
and
segment
target
instances
simultaneously.
This approach eliminates background interference and view-
based duplicates without requiring extensive 3D annotations.
To overcome the challenges of traditional clustering algo-
rithms, which are often physics-agnostic and rely on rigid
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:47:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

11414
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AUTOMATION SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING, VOL. 23, 2026
thresholds, we propose a physics-guided clustering method
that adapts to object morphology. This algorithm fuses multi-
dimensional geometric features, including surface normals and
elevation gradients, and utilizes a hierarchical optimization
framework to avoid manual parameter tuning. We integrate the
semantic reconstruction and adaptive clustering into a uniﬁed
pipeline for robust counting. Extensive experiments on the syn-
thetic, real-world, and Fuji-SfM datasets demonstrate that our
approach improves counting accuracy by 6.9 percentage points
(0.996 vs. 0.927) over the state-of-the-art 3D baseline on the
synthetic dataset, with corresponding gains of 7.2 pp and
12.9 pp on the real-world and Fuji datasets. For future work,
we aim to generalise the framework to more diverse crops,
adopt faster reconstruction backbones such as 3D Gaussian
Splatting for real-time deployment, and integrate multi-modal
sensors to lift the individual-resolvability requirement in
cluster-structured fruits such as grapes and dense blueberries.
REFERENCES
[1]
D.-J. Lee, J. K. Archibald, and G. Xiong, “Rapid color grading for fruit
quality evaluation using direct color mapping,” IEEE Trans. Autom. Sci.
Eng., vol. 8, no. 2, pp. 292–302, Apr. 2011.
[2]
L. He, F. Wu, X. Du, and G. Zhang, “Cascade-SORT: A robust fruit
counting approach using multiple features cascade matching,” Comput.
Electron. Agricult., vol. 200, Sep. 2022, Art. no. 107223.
[3]
L. Meyer, A. Gilson, U. Schmid, and M. Stamminger, “FruitNeRF:
A uniﬁed neural radiance ﬁeld based fruit counting framework,” in
Proc. IEEE/RSJ Int. Conf. Intell. Robots Syst. (IROS), Oct. 2024,
pp. 1–8.
[4]
L. Zeng, W. J. Lv, Z. K. Dong, and Y. J. Liu, “PPR-Net++: Accurate 6-
D pose estimation in stacked scenarios,” IEEE Trans. Autom. Sci. Eng.,
vol. 19, no. 4, pp. 3139–3151, Oct. 2022.
[5]
B. Calli, W. Caarls, M. Wisse, and P. P. Jonker, “Active vision via
extremum seeking for robots in unstructured environments: Applications
in object recognition and manipulation,” IEEE Trans. Autom. Sci. Eng.,
vol. 15, no. 4, pp. 1810–1822, Oct. 2018.
[6]
S. Kobayashi, W. Wan, T. Kiyokawa, K. Koyama, and K. Harada,
“Obtaining an object’s 3D model using dual-arm robotic manipulation
and stationary depth sensing,” IEEE Trans. Autom. Sci. Eng., vol. 20,
no. 3, pp. 2075–2087, Jul. 2023.
[7]
P. Roy, W. Dong, and V. Isler, “Registering reconstructions of the two
sides of fruit tree rows,” in Proc. IEEE/RSJ Int. Conf. Intell. Robots Syst.
(IROS), Oct. 2018, pp. 1–9.
[8]
M.
Jayaratne,
D.
de
Silva,
and
D.
Alahakoon,
“Unsupervised
machine
learning
based
scalable
fusion
for
active
perception,”
IEEE
Trans.
Autom.
Sci.
Eng.,
vol. 16,
no. 4,
pp. 1653–1663,
Oct. 2019.
[9]
X. Liu et al., “An adaptive signal photon detection method based
on DBSCAN for photon-counting laser altimeter,” IEEE J. Sel.
Topics Appl. Earth Observ. Remote Sens., vol. 17, pp. 3674–3686,
2024.
[10] H. Chen, M. Liang, W. Liu, W. Wang, and P. X. Liu, “An approach to
boundary detection for 3D point clouds based on DBSCAN clustering,”
Pattern Recognit., vol. 124, Apr. 2022, Art. no. 108431.
[11] M. Nasor and W. Obaid, “Detection and localization of early-stage
multiple brain tumors using a hybrid technique of patch-based process-
ing, k-means clustering and object counting,” Int. J. Biomed. Imag.,
vol. 2020, Jan. 2020, Art. no. 9035096.
[12] H. Liu, Y. Yu, F. Sun, and J. Gu, “Visual–tactile fusion for
object recognition,” IEEE Trans. Autom. Sci. Eng., vol. 14, no. 2,
pp. 996–1008, Apr. 2017.
[13] B. Zhao, X. Hua, K. Yu, W. Xuan, X. Chen, and W. Tao, “Indoor point
cloud segmentation using iterative Gaussian mapping and improved
model ﬁtting,” IEEE Trans. Geosci. Remote Sens., vol. 58, no. 11,
pp. 7890–7907, Nov. 2020.
[14] Q. Liu, Y. Zhang, and G. Yang, “Small unopened cotton boll counting
by detection with MRF-YOLO in the wild,” Comput. Electron. Agricult.,
vol. 204, Jan. 2023, Art. no. 107576.
[15] D. Ma, H. Fang, N. Wang, C. Zhang, J. Dong, and H. Hu, “Automatic
detection and counting system for pavement cracks based on PCGAN
and YOLO-MF,” IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst., vol. 23, no. 11,
pp. 22166–22178, Nov. 2022.
[16] B. Mildenhall, P. P. Srinivasan, M. Tancik, J. T. Barron, R. Ramamoorthi,
and R. Ng, “NeRF: Representing scenes as neural radiance ﬁelds for
view synthesis,” in Proc. Eur. Conf. Comput. Vis. Glasgow, U.K.:
Springer, Aug. 2020, pp. 405–421.
[17] J. T. Barron, B. Mildenhall, M. Tancik, P. Hedman, R. Martin-Brualla,
and P. P. Srinivasan, “Mip-NeRF: A multiscale representation for anti-
aliasing neural radiance ﬁelds,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Int. Conf. Comput.
Vis. (ICCV), Oct. 2021, pp. 5855–5864.
[18] J. T. Barron, B. Mildenhall, D. Verbin, P. P. Srinivasan, and P. Hed-
man, “Zip-NeRF: Anti-aliased grid-based neural radiance ﬁelds,”
in Proc. IEEE/CVF Int. Conf. Comput. Vis. (ICCV), Oct. 2023,
pp. 19640–19648.
[19] T. M¨uller, A. Evans, C. Schied, and A. Keller, “Instant neural graphics
primitives with a multiresolution hash encoding,” ACM Trans. Graph.,
vol. 41, no. 4, pp. 1–15, Jul. 2022.
[20] A. Chen et al., “TensoRF: Tensorial radiance ﬁelds,” in Proc. Eur. Conf.
Comput. Vis. Cham, Switzerland: Springer, 2022, pp. 333–350.
[21] S. Zhi, T. Laidlow, S. Leutenegger, and A. J. Davison, “In-place scene
labelling and understanding with implicit scene representation,” in Proc.
IEEE/CVF Int. Conf. Comput. Vis. (ICCV), Oct. 2021, pp. 15838–15847.
[22] V.
Tschernezki,
I.
Laina,
D.
Larlus,
and
A.
Vedaldi,
“Neural
feature fusion ﬁelds: 3D distillation of self-supervised 2D image
representations,” in Proc. Int. Conf. 3D Vis. (3DV), Sep. 2022,
pp. 443–453.
[23] M. Caron et al., “Emerging properties in self-supervised vision
transformers,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Int. Conf. Comput. Vis. (ICCV), Oct.
2021, pp. 9650–9660.
[24] S. Lloyd, “Least squares quantization in PCM,” IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory,
vol. IT-28, no. 2, pp. 129–137, Mar. 1982.
[25] Y. Chen et al., “On mitigating hard clusters for face clustering,” in Proc.
Eur. Conf. Comput. Vis. (ECCV), 2022, pp. 529–544.
[26] C. Kang, Z. Lin, S. Wu, Y. Lan, C. Geng, and S. Zhang, “A triangular
grid ﬁlter method based on the slope ﬁlter,” Remote Sens., vol. 15,
no. 11, p. 2930, Jun. 2023.
[27] N. Luo, Y. Jiang, and Q. Wang, “Supervoxel-based region growing
segmentation for point cloud data,” Int. J. Pattern Recognit. Artif. Intell.,
vol. 35, no. 3, Mar. 2021, Art. no. 2154007.
[28] X. Zhu et al., “Robust 3-D plane segmentation from airborne
point clouds based on quasi-a-contrario theory,” IEEE J. Sel. Top-
ics
Appl.
Earth
Observ.
Remote
Sens.,
vol. 14,
pp. 7133–7147,
2021.
[29] L. Landrieu and M. Simonovsky, “Large-scale point cloud semantic seg-
mentation with superpoint graphs,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Conf. Comput.
Vis. Pattern Recognit., Jun. 2018, pp. 4558–4567.
[30] M. Raafat. (2023). BlenderNeRF: A Blender Add-on for Generating
Synthetic NeRF and Gaussian Splatting Datasets. Accessed: May 2026.
[Online]. Available: https://github.com/maximeraafat/BlenderNeRF
[31] J. Gen´e-Mola et al., “Fuji-SfM dataset: A collection of annotated images
and point clouds for Fuji apple detection and location using structure-
from-motion photogrammetry,” Data Brief, vol. 30, Jun. 2020, Art. no.
105591.
[32] T. Ren et al., “Grounded SAM: Assembling open-world models for
diverse visual tasks,” 2024, arXiv:2401.14159.
[33] O. Ronneberger, P. Fischer, and T. Brox, “U-Net: Convolutional net-
works for biomedical image segmentation,” in Proc. 18th Int. Conf. Med.
Image Comput. Comput.-Assist. Intervent., vol. 9351. Cham, Switzer-
land: Springer, 2015, pp. 234–241.
[34] E. Lu, W. Xie, and A. Zisserman, “Class-agnostic counting,” in Proc.
Asian Conf. Comput. Vis., 2018, pp. 669–684, doi: 10.1007/978-3-030-
20893-6 42.
[35] V. Ranjan, U. Sharma, T. Nguyen, and M. Hoai, “Learning to count
everything,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit.
(CVPR), Jun. 2021, pp. 3394–3403.
[36] C. Liu et al., “CounTR: Transformer-based generalised visual counting,”
2022, arXiv:2208.13721.
[37] S. Ren, K. He, R. Girshick, and J. Sun, “Faster R-CNN: Towards
real-time object detection with region proposal networks,” IEEE Trans.
Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell., vol. 39, no. 6, pp. 1137–1149, Jun. 2017.
[38] Q. Fan, W. Zhuo, C.-K. Tang, and Y.-W. Tai, “Few-shot object
detection with attention-RPN and multi-relation detector,” in Proc.
IEEE/CVF Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), Jun. 2020,
pp. 4013–4022.
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:47:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

WANG et al.: SEMANTIC NeRF-ORIENTED 3-D OBJECT COUNTING FOR INDUSTRIAL FRUIT HARVESTING
11415
[39] Z. Huang, M. Dai, Y. Zhang, J. Zhang, and H. Shan, “Point, segment
and count: A generalized framework for object counting,” in Proc.
IEEE/CVF Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), Seattle, WA,
USA, Jun. 2024, pp. 17067–17076.
[40] S. Zhou et al., “Feature 3DGS: Supercharging 3D Gaussian splatting
to enable distilled feature ﬁelds,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Conf. Com-
put. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), Seattle, WA, USA, Jun. 2024,
pp. 21676–21685.
[41] J. L. Sch¨onberger and J.-M. Frahm, “Structure-from-motion revisited,”
in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), Jun. 2016,
pp. 4104–4113.
[42] M. Tancik et al., “NeRFStudio: A modular framework for neural
radiance ﬁeld development,” in Proc. ACM SIGGRAPH, 2023, pp. 1–12.
[43] Q.-Y. Zhou, J. Park, and V. Koltun, “Open3D: A modern library for 3D
data processing,” 2018, arXiv:1801.09847.
[44] F. Wilcoxon, “Individual comparisons by ranking methods,” Biometrics
Bull., vol. 1, no. 6, pp. 80–83, 1945.
[45] S. Sabour, S. Vora, D. Duckworth, I. Krasin, D. J. Fleet, and
A. Tagliasacchi, “RobustNeRF: Ignoring distractors with robust losses,”
in Proc. IEEE/CVF Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR),
Vancouver, BC, Canada, Jun. 2023, pp. 20626–20636.
Yimo
Wang
received the B.Eng. degree from
Southeast University, Nanjing, China, in 2023,
where he is currently pursuing the Ph.D. degree
in control science and engineering with the School
of Automation. His research interests include deep
learning and pattern recognition.
Bin Kang (Member, IEEE) received the Ph.D.
degree in electrical engineering from Nanjing Uni-
versity of Posts and Telecommunications, Nanjing,
China, in 2016. He is an Associate Professor with
Nanjing University of Posts and Telecommunica-
tions. His research interests are in the area of
computer vision and pattern recognition.
Jian Liu (Member, IEEE) received the B.S. and
Ph.D. degrees from the School of Automation
and Electrical Engineering, University of Science
and Technology Beijing, Beijing, China, in 2015 and
2020, respectively. From September 2017 to 2018,
he was a Joint Training Student with the Department
of Mathematics, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH,
USA. From 2020 to 2021, he was a Post-Doctoral
Fellow with the School of Automation, Southeast
University, Nanjing, China, where he is currently an
Associate Professor. His research interests include
multiagent systems, nonlinear control, event-triggered control, ﬁxed-time
control, and intermittent control.
Changyin Sun (Senior Member, IEEE) received the
B.S. degree in mathematics from Sichuan University,
Chengdu, China, and the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees
in electrical engineering from Southeast University,
Nanjing, China, in 2001 and 2004, respectively. He
is currently a Professor with the School of Artiﬁcial
Intelligence, Anhui University, Hefei, China. His
research interests include artiﬁcial intelligence, intel-
ligent control, and optimal theory. He is an Associate
Editor of IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NEURAL NET-
WORKS AND LEARNING SYSTEMS and IEEE/CAA
JOURNAL OF AUTOMATICA SINICA.
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:47:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
