Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 224 (2024) 109177
Available online 29 June 2024
0168-1699/© 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/compag
Original papers
SLAM-PYE: Tightly coupled GNSS-binocular-inertial fusion for pitaya
positioning, counting, and yield estimation
Hongjie Wang, Xiangyu Hong, Linlin Qin ∗, Chun Shi, Gang Wu
Department of Automation, University of Science and Technology of China, No. 443 Huangshan Road, Shushan District, Hefei, 230027, Anhui, China
A R T I C L E
I N F O
Keywords:
Dynamic fruit localization
Radius estimation
Probabilistic factor graph
Sensor fusion
Multi-view measurement
A B S T R A C T
Accurate pre-harvest yield estimation facilitates the more rational allocation of resources. Previous methods
of estimating fruit position, either directly from hardware or through Structure from Motion (SFM), encounter
challenges such as high hardware costs, extensive computational resources, and repetitive counting. In
this paper, we present a graph optimization-based system that tightly couples dual-frequency GNSS raw
measurements and visual-inertial data to estimate pitaya state, including its position and radius. Firstly,
the system utilizes a coarse-to-fine approach to estimate the transformations on three axes and align three
complementary sensors to a unified coordinate system, thus reducing the computational complexity of pure
visual navigation. Secondly, for the first time, this system analytically calculates the pitaya state using
the single-view measurement output from the binocular camera, replacing expensive lidar. It employs this
calculated state as the initial value, then optimizes the pitaya state and eliminates outliers by multiple
reprojection residuals from multi-view measurements. Next, for the first time, we integrate ionospheric-
free pseudorange and Doppler residuals into the visual-inertial factor graph, thereby mitigating multipath
interference in double-layer film greenhouse and providing a unique ID and position for each pitaya. Finally,
we calculate the weight of each pitaya using a cubic polynomial based on its radius and estimate the overall
greenhouse yield by summing all individual weights. In greenhouse experiments, our system achieved an Root
Mean Square Error (RMSE) of 7 cm for position estimation, 7 mm for radius estimation, and a weight Mean
Absolute Percentage Error (MAPE) of about 16% for individual pitaya. Overall, our system can provide cost-
effective, real-time, non-repetitive, and low-missing pitaya yield estimation to assist greenhouse managers in
decision-making.
1. Introduction
Cheap, fast, simple, and precise yield estimation is desired by agri-
cultural practitioners. It plays a vital role in risk management through-
out various stages of fruit production, including picking, warehousing,
transportation, and sales. The traditional method of estimating orchard
yield, which involves weighing fruits at multiple sampling points,
faces challenges related to sampling quantity and distribution strate-
gies (Wulfsohn et al., 2012). Subsequently, prior studies has proposed
numerous automatic yield estimation systems, categorized as direct or
indirect methods based on whether the measurement is specific to the
individual fruit (He et al., 2022).
The indirect method assesses orchard yield by constructing a sta-
tistical model that incorporates various yield-related factors, includ-
ing meteorological conditions, geographical conditions, management
strategies, and plant characteristics. For instance, Obsie et al. (2020)
∗Corresponding author.
E-mail addresses: hjwang010@mail.ustc.edu.cn (H. Wang), hongxiangyu2001@mail.ustc.edu.cn (X. Hong), qinll@ustc.edu.cn (L. Qin),
cshi@mail.ustc.edu.cn (C. Shi), wug@ustc.edu.cn (G. Wu).
utilized the composition of bee species and meteorological conditions
to predict blueberry yields, while Bai et al. (2021) employed mul-
tispectral images and solar radiation data to predict apple yields.
Similarly, Matese and Di Gennaro (2021) used multispectral images,
meteorological conditions, and canopy volume to estimate grape yields.
Although the indirect method does not directly measure specific fruits,
it has the ability to provide a broad range of macroscopic estimates.
However, assembling a comprehensive dataset of factors poses chal-
lenges due to the multifaceted nature of yield determination. Fur-
thermore, unique regional characteristics make generalizing statistical
models across different areas challenging.
Conversely, the direct method focuses on determining the size of
each fruit, and then calculating the total yield of the orchard by
aggregating individual weights (Miranda et al., 2023b). Dorj et al.
(2017) utilized traditional image processing techniques for citrus detec-
tion, whereas Santos et al. (2020) employed various neural networks
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2024.109177
Received 29 January 2024; Received in revised form 12 June 2024; Accepted 13 June 2024

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 224 (2024) 109177
2
H. Wang et al.
for grape detection and tracking. Li et al. (2023) enhanced YOLOv5
for tomato detection and position estimation using a depth camera,
although this hardware may suffer from instability under intense sun-
light. To address this issue, Hou et al. (2022) used the kriging method
to recover missing depth readings for citrus in case of camera measure-
ment failure. In contrast, Kang et al. (2022) opted to utilize sunlight-
insensitive lidar to assist the depth camera in achieving robust and
accurate positioning of apples.
Despite the evident limitations of the depth camera, it remains
widely employed in radius estimation and fruit reconstruction tasks
owing to its rich data and moderate cost. Yu et al. (2022) used a
depth camera to measure the radius of pomegranate, achieving an
error of 2.4 mm. Gong et al. (2022) employed a depth camera to
attain a center positioning accuracy of 0.6 mm for partially occluded
tomatoes. Additionally, they conducted an analysis of the correlation
between lighting conditions and accuracy of depth camera. Miranda
et al. (2023a) utilized a different depth camera that is more resilient
to sunlight, to measure the radius of an unoccluded apple, achieving in
a weight error of 5% by allometric modeling. To mitigate the impact
of sunlight variations on measurements, Liu et al. (2023) integrated a
depth camera and lidar, achieving in a position error of 21 mm for the
apple in outdoor experiments. In terms of orchard reconstruction, Chen
et al. (2021) opted to integrate a binocular camera and a robotic arm
for reconstructing a dense map. Xiong et al. (2023) utilized OctoMap
for optimizing the dense map, achieving an average memory saving rate
of 97%.
Additionally, apart from utilizing 3D measurement directly from
hardware, software triangulation can recover 3D information lost in
the projection. For example, Rakun et al. (2019) proposed a method to
estimate the radius and distance of plants or fruits through image reg-
istration and template matching. They introduce geometric principles
and compare various pixel matching methods. In addition, Herrero-
Huerta et al. (2015) used camera photos to reconstruct a 3D model
of the grape bunch, achieving a coefficient of determination of 0.78
between the estimated and actual weights. Luo et al. (2016) estimated
the cutting point and volume of grape bunches through binocular
matching and curve fitting. Operating at a speed of 0.7 seconds per
frame, the errors for both height and diameter are less than 20 mm.
Furthermore, Gené-Mola et al. (2021) employed Structure from Motion
(SFM) and multi-view binocular technology to reconstruct complex
point clouds over a wider range, utilizing multiple models to estimate
the radius and visualize the fruit. This study confirmed that relying
solely on vision enables high-precision radius estimation, with an error
of approximately 4 mm and taking 46 min.
Despite the compromises on equipment cost and computing re-
sources, the aforementioned methods successfully achieve accurate
estimation of fruit state within a limited region. If the device’s motion
trajectory involves multiple passes forth and back, or if the fruit is
occluded during single-view measurement, and the system lacks sensors
for global position measurement, it may result in repetitive count-
ing. Experiments conducted by Rapado-Rincón et al. (2023) utilize
a robotic arm and lidar to track and count tomatoes. The results
demonstrate that the multi-view measurement can effectively reduce
counting errors caused by occlusion and ID switching. In addition, the
integration of Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) measurements
into the system ensures the uniqueness of the position in the map.
However, multipath interference in the greenhouse makes fixing the
solution challenging for Real-Time Kinematic positioning (RTK) en-
gines and introduces jumps in the outcomes of Single-Point Positioning
(SPP) algorithms (Pini et al., 2020). Mitigating multipath interference
by linearly combining multiple raw GNSS measurements at various
frequencies has been demonstrated to be effective (Kamatham and
Vemuri, 2017). Moreover, the introduction of inertial data into the
system ensures continuity between successive frames (Mur-Artal and
Tardós, 2017b).
Fig. 1. The measuring equipment utilized in the experiments. The digital caliper has
an accuracy of 0.1 mm. The electronic scale has an accuracy of 1 g. A homemade
binocular camera with a baseline of 55 mm, a depth camera with a built-in IMU, three
GNSS antennas, and two GNSS receivers are affixed to the handheld platform. The
image and depth output of the Intel RealSense D455 depth camera is blocked, and
solely inertial data is output. In the arrangement from left to right, the three antennas
are the UM982 secondary antenna, the ZED-F9P primary antenna, and the UM982
primary antenna. Detailed specifications are presented in Table 2.
Overall, the previous systems for estimating fruit yield have several
limitations. Firstly, sensors capable of directly measuring the state of
fruit are often expensive, while our system achieves this function by a
combination of cost-effective sensors. Secondly, SFM can restore fine
but unnecessary textures, while our system reconstructs only sparse
mappoints and pitaya for real-time performance. Additionally, sensors
lacking the capability of global position measurement may present
varying relative positions for the same fruit, while our system integrates
GNSS raw measurements, ensuring the unique position of each pitaya
and avoiding repetitive counting. Lastly, the fixed perspective causes
certain fruits to be obscured and ignored, whereas our system measures
the pitaya radius from multiple perspectives, facilitating the exclusion
of outliers and enhancing the accuracy. Therefore, the objective of our
system is to tightly couple complementary sensors to obtain a unique
and accurate estimation of position and radius, and ultimately estimate
the yield of the entire greenhouse inexpensively and rapidly based on
pitaya’s radius and quantity. The main contributions of this article are
as follows.
(a) A graph optimization-based approach that tightly couples Visual-
Inertial (VI) data and dual-frequency GNSS raw measurements. It
integrates ionospheric-free pseudoranges and Doppler residuals
to the VI factor graph for the first time.
(b) An innovative analytical algorithm for calculating pitaya posi-
tion and radius from single-view measurement, as well as their
reprojection residuals from multi-view measurements.
(c) An empirical cubic polynomial with respect to radius for esti-
mating the weight of individual pitaya.
(d) An evaluation of the proposed system regarding its stability,
accuracy, and real-time performance in both indoor and green-
house experiments.
2. System overview
In terms of hardware, the system incorporates three types of het-
erogeneous sensors. Given that pitaya typically has a ground clearance
of less than one meter, roughly equivalent to the height of a standing
person’s elbow, the sensors are mounted on a handheld platform,

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 224 (2024) 109177
3
H. Wang et al.
Fig. 2. System framework of SLAM-PYE. The main thread of the system is represented in red, the approaches related to GNSS raw measurement processing and pitaya state
estimation are in green, and blue arrows indicate data flow.
illustrated in
Fig. 1. In terms of software, the system framework
consists of seven interconnected threads, depicted in Fig. 2. The prepro-
cessing thread receives raw measurements from hardware-synchronized
sensors, processes the data, and then transmits crucial information to
both feature tracking and pitaya tracking, as detailed in Section 3.1.
Section 3.5 details the pitaya tracking thread, which determines the 2D
position of the pitaya in the image. Concurrently, the feature tracking
thread establishes the initial position and orientation of the device for
Bundle Adjustment (BA).
Considering the cost and stability, our system does not utilize
hardware capable of directly measuring the distance, such as the depth
camera, lidar, or robotic arm. Instead, we present an analytical algo-
rithm in Sections 3.6 and 3.7 that calculates both the position and
radius of the pitaya in a single-view measurement from the binocular
camera. This algorithm provides the initial estimation for BA. Because
of the variation in perspective and distance between the camera and the
pitaya during movement, obtaining consistent state estimation across
multi-view measurements poses a challenge when relying solely on an-
alytical algorithms. We propose an approach that considers the pitaya
state as variables and optimizes them through residuals from multi-
view measurements. This approach is more effective in eliminating
outliers and fusing pitaya from various perspectives, thereby leading
to reliable and accurate estimation. Visual reprojection residuals on
position and radius are also detailed in Sections 3.6 and 3.7.
To prevent the same pitaya from being repeatedly counted due to
occlusion or multiple occurrences, our system integrates GNSS raw
measurements into BA. These measurements are specifically divided
into the pseudorange factor that constrains the device’s position as
detailed in Section 3.3, and Doppler factor that constrains the device’s
velocity as detailed in Section 3.4. However, since sensor data is
presented in various coordinate systems, it requires initialization and
alignment before utilization. Consequently, in the local mapping thread
of Fig. 2, there is a sequential execution of Vision-Only SFM, VI-
Initialization, and GNSS-VI Alignment, all contingent on the device’s
motion. Section 3.2 describes the approach to aligning the local coordi-
nate system post-VI-Initialization in three axes with the Earth-centered,
Earth-fixed (ECEF) coordinate system of GNSS.
For real-time performance, the dense point clouds and textures
calculated in SFM are ignored, and the system only estimates the device
state 𝐝, sparse mappoint position 𝐦, and pitaya state 𝐩. The pitaya state
includes its position and radius, while the device state includes its po-
sition, orientation, and velocity. Furthermore, the system’s BA assumes
the independence of all measurements, with their noise following a
zero-mean Gaussian distribution. Thus, similar to the derivation in Cao
et al. (2022), the maximum a posteriori problem (MAP) involving the
above state is reformulated to minimize the sum of residuals from
multiple measurements, as depicted in Eq. (1). In this equation, 𝐕,
𝐈, and 𝐆represent the binocular image, inertial data, and GNSS raw
measurements, respectively, while r (… ) represents the residuals on
the specific state measured by these sensors. It is noteworthy that
the Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) and GNSS lack the capability to
directly measure mappoint position and pitaya state. Therefore, these
variables are not included in the GNSS and inertial residuals of the
optimization problem.
(𝐝, 𝐩, 𝐦)∗
MAP
=
arg max 𝑝(𝐝, 𝐩, 𝐦∣𝐕, 𝐈, 𝐆)
=
arg min {∑𝑚
𝑖=1|r (𝐕𝐢, 𝐝, 𝐩, 𝐦)|2 +
∑𝑛
𝑖=1|r (𝐈𝐢, 𝐝)|2 + ∑𝑜
𝑖=1|r (𝐆𝐢, 𝐝)|2}.
(1)
Each residual in Eq. (1) is only related to several state (Kschis-
chang et al., 2001), thus it can be transformed into the probability

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 224 (2024) 109177
4
H. Wang et al.
Fig. 3. Probability factor graph of the optimization problem after GNSS-VI alignment in our system, with a sliding window size of three. The annotated ellipse represents the state
to be optimized in the system, such as the position and radius of pitaya. Colored rectangles represent the factors used to constrain the system’s state, such as four pseudorange
factors simultaneously constraining the position of the device. As the number of sliding windows increases, more factors and variables are involved in the optimization, resulting in
a smoother estimated state with more computation time. Therefore, a real-time system needs to find a balance between computing resources and the number of sliding windows.
factor graph shown in Fig. 3. As depicted in Eq. (2), the GNSS raw
measurement 𝐆is refined into the pseudorange factor 𝑃𝑠
IF 𝑟on device
position 𝑇𝐝in Section 3.3, and the Doppler factor 𝐷𝑠
𝑟on device velocity
𝑣𝐝in Section 3.4. In addition, the binocular image 𝐕is used not
only to constrain the mappoint position 𝐦as introduced in Mur-Artal
and Tardós (2017a), but also to constrain the pitaya state 𝐩. The
reprojection residual on pitaya state r (𝐕, 𝐩) is refined into the residual
on position r (𝐕, 𝑝𝐩
) introduced in Section 3.6, and the residual on
radius r (𝐕, 𝑟𝐩
) introduced in Section 3.7. The IMU data 𝐈is refined into
the random walk factor, ensuring the availability of the measurements,
and the inertial factor, which constrain the movement between the two
frames as introduced in Campos et al. (2021). For real-time purposes,
the local BA optimizes only the state within the sliding window, with
the other state serve as priori factors.
r (𝐆, 𝐝) = r (𝑃𝑠
IF 𝑟, 𝑇𝐝
) + r (𝐷𝑠
𝑟, 𝑣𝐝
) ,
(2a)
r (𝐕, 𝐩) = 𝜌𝐻𝑢𝑏
(r (𝐕, 𝑝𝐩
)) + 𝜌𝐻𝑢𝑏
(r (𝐕, 𝑟𝐩
)) .
(2b)
Incorrect matching and fusion of pitaya data can result in signif-
icant reprojection residual of the pitaya state, further leading to the
estimated overall state deviating from the normal range and causing
optimization failure. To address this issue, our system employs three
strategies to identify and eliminate outliers. First, a robust kernel, such
as the Huber cost function, 𝜌𝐻𝑢𝑏(… ), is used to reduce the weights of
measurements with large residuals (Kümmerle et al., 2011), as shown
in
Eq. (2). Second, edges with residuals exceeding a threshold are
removed from the factor graph. This threshold is affected by many
factors, such as the image resolution, the confidence level of pitaya,
and projection distance. The final strategy is based on manually defined
attributes, such as the vertical and radius distributions of regular pitaya
in Section 4.5.
3. Methodology
3.1. Preprocessing
Our system centers on frames captured by a binocular camera, uti-
lizing IMU data and GNSS raw measurements to guarantee the smooth
and consistent estimate of the pitaya’s position and radius across long-
range maps. However, due to the different measurement principles
and output formats of these three sensors, we employ a preprocessing
thread to extract the essential information.
Sensor calibration is an essential preparatory step prior to deploying
a multi-sensor system. Our system entails two calibration steps: cali-
brating the binocular camera with the IMU, and calibrating the IMU
with the GNSS receiver. Binocular matching relies on the assumption
that identical features are projected at a consistent height in both the
left and right images. Calibrating the binocular camera with IMU helps
mitigate sensor and lens deviations that may arise during welding,
assembly, and power-on, minimizing disparities between reality and
the assumptions mentioned above. Calibrating between the binocular
camera and the IMU is conducted using the excellent Kalibr toolbox,
assuming a pinhole model camera and fixed temperature drift in the
IMU (Rehder et al., 2016). Calibrating between the IMU and GNSS re-
ceiver facilitates the conversion between different coordinate systems.
Given their proximity and the centimeter-level accuracy required, the
distance between them is manually measured using a digital caliper.
Since the IMU output frequency surpasses that of the camera and GNSS
receiver, pre-integrating IMU data between frames reduces redundant
calculations in the BA (Forster et al., 2017).
When processing GNSS raw measurements, the system initially
excludes satellites with abnormal state registers, low signal-to-noise ra-
tios, incomplete dual-frequency measurements, or low elevation angles
to mitigate strong multipath interference in greenhouses. Subsequently,
the terms of 𝐿MW and 𝐿GF, as presented in Eq. (3) and proposed
by Blewitt (1990), are employed to combine the raw measurements and
detect the cycle slip. Finally, the raw dual-frequency pseudorange are

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 224 (2024) 109177
5
H. Wang et al.
Table 1
GNSS raw measurements used in the system.
GNSS system
Signal type
Frequency (MHz)
Pseudo-range
Doppler
Carrier phase
GPS
L1
1575.42
𝑃1
𝐷1
𝐿1
GPS
L2
1227.6
𝑃2
𝐷2
𝐿2
BDS
B1
1561.098
𝑃1
𝐷1
𝐿1
BDS
B3
1268.52
𝑃2
𝐷2
𝐿2
combined into an ionospheric-free pseudorange 𝑃IF. In Eq. (3), 𝐿rep-
resents the carrier phase measurement, 𝑃represents the pseudorange
measurement, and 𝑓1 and 𝑓2 denote the frequencies of two navigation
signals within the same constellation, as detailed in Table 1.
𝐿MW = 𝑓1𝐿1 −𝑓2𝐿2
𝑓1 −𝑓2
−𝑓1𝑃1 + 𝑓2𝑃2
𝑓1 + 𝑓2
,
(3a)
𝐿GF = 𝐿1 −𝐿2,
(3b)
𝑃IF =
𝑓2
1 𝑃1 −𝑓2
2 𝑃2
𝑓2
1 −𝑓2
2
.
(3c)
3.2. GNSS-VI alignment
The GNSS receiver provides satellite positions, pseudorange and
Doppler measurements in ECEF coordinate system, whereas the device’s
position, orientation, and velocity are described in the local coordinate
system after VI initialization. Therefore, ensuring the global consistency
of the map with the aid of raw GNSS measurements begins by aligning
ECEF coordinate system with the local one. To facilitate the conversion
between ECEF and local coordinates, an East-North-Up (ENU) coor-
dinate system, centered on the device origin, is introduced into the
system. In Eq. (4), the position 𝑝or velocity 𝑣in the local coordinate
system (… )𝑤is initially converted to the ENU coordinate (… )𝑛, and
then to the ECEF coordinate (… )𝑒.
𝑝𝑒
𝑟= 𝑅𝑒
𝑛𝑅𝑛
𝑤
(𝑝𝑤
𝑟−𝑝𝑤
anc
) + 𝑝𝑒
anc,
(4a)
𝑣𝑒
𝑟= 𝑅𝑒
𝑛𝑅𝑛
𝑤𝑣𝑤
𝑟.
(4b)
Before GNSS-VI alignment, there is insufficient information regard-
ing the rotation 𝑅𝑛
𝑤and translation 𝑝𝑤
anc that convert local coordinates to
ENU coordinates, as well as the rotation 𝑅𝑒
𝑛and translation 𝑝𝑒
anc convert-
ing ENU coordinates to ECEF coordinates. The position 𝑝𝑤
𝑟and velocity
𝑣𝑤
𝑟of the device in the local coordinate system, as well as the position
𝑝𝑒
𝑟and velocity 𝑣𝑒
𝑟of the GNSS receiver in ECEF coordinate system,
are known. Therefore, GNSS-VI alignment involves adjusting rotation
and translation to minimize pseudorange and Doppler residuals. Eq.
(4) indicates that velocity conversion between two coordinate systems
is solely linked to rotation, whereas position conversion is affected by
both rotation and translation. Therefore, our system employs a three-
step approach, progressing from coarse to fine adjustments, to achieve
GNSS-VI alignment.
Step 1: Estimate the position of the receiver solely based on the
constraints imposed by the pseudorange factor, excluding the visual
and inertial factors. The coarse position within the greenhouse, affected
by multipath interference, served as the initial anchor point for GNSS-
VI alignment. Findings from greenhouse experiments reveal an anchor
point drift of approximately ten meters, although it notably mitigates
the nonlinearity resulting from the rotation between ECEF and ENU
coordinate systems.
Step 2: Estimate the rotation between ECEF coordinate system and
the local coordinate system, taking into account the constraint imposed
by the Doppler factor. The initial rotation for 𝑅𝑒
𝑛is computed using
Eq. (5), where 𝜙and 𝜆are the latitude and longitude of the initial
anchor point in Step 1. Concurrently, the initial rotation for 𝑅𝑛
𝑤is set
as the identity matrix. In contrast to the approach outlined in Cao et al.
(2022), which focuses solely on estimating single-axis yaw, our system
computes the rotation matrix for all three axes. This necessity arises
from aligning the gravity direction estimated from low-cost IMU data
with that in the ENU coordinate system, which proves to be challenging
in experiments where the device is kept in motion.
𝑅𝑒
𝑛
=
⎡
⎢
⎢⎣
−sin𝜆
−sin𝜙cos𝜆
cos𝜙cos𝜆
cos𝜆
−sin𝜙sin𝜆
cos𝜙sin𝜆
0
−cos𝜙
sin𝜙
⎤
⎥
⎥⎦
.
(5)
Step 3: Estimate the position of the anchor point and the rotation
from ECEF coordinate system to the local coordinate system, consider-
ing the constraints of pseudorange and Doppler factor. The accuracy
of Doppler measurements surpasses that of pseudoranges, especially
when strong multipath interference is present (Kubo, 2009). As a result,
the rotation after Step 3 differs slightly from that in Step 2, but a
more accurate anchor point is obtained. Furthermore, as the position
𝑝𝑤
𝑟and velocity 𝑣𝑤
𝑟of the GNSS receiver in the local coordinate system
differ from those of the IMU (… )𝑏, a transformation is necessary, as
illustrated by Eq. (6). The rotation 𝑅𝑟
𝑏is set as the identity matrix, and
the translation 𝑡𝑟
𝑏is manually measured during calibration.
𝑝𝑤
𝑟= 𝑅𝑟
𝑏𝑝𝑤
𝑏+ 𝑡𝑟
𝑏,
(6a)
𝑣𝑤
𝑟= 𝑅𝑟
𝑏𝑣𝑤
𝑏.
(6b)
After completing the above three steps, the optimized anchor point,
serving as the origin within the ENU coordinate system, becomes the
origin of the local coordinate system. The three axes of the local
coordinate system are aligned with those of the ENU coordinate system.
Following a coarse-to-fine GNSS-VI alignment, the GNSS raw measure-
ments are integrated into factor graphs for both local and global BA, in
the form of pseudorange and Doppler factors.
3.3. Pseudorange factor
Pseudorange measurement, a fundamental output of a GNSS re-
ceiver, depicts the geometric distance between the receiver 𝑟and the
satellite 𝑠. Thus, when the satellite position is known, pseudorange
factor can be employed to constrain the position of the receiver. How-
ever, it encompasses a range of errors in signal generation, propagation,
and processing. These errors primarily involve receiver clock bias 𝛿𝑡𝑟,
satellite clock bias 𝛿𝑡𝑠, ionospheric delay 𝐼𝑠
𝑟, tropospheric delay 𝑇𝑠
𝑟, and
measurement error 𝜖𝑠
𝑟, modeled as a zero-mean Gaussian distribution,
as depicted in Eq. (7). The satellite’s position 𝑝𝑒
𝑠and clock bias 𝛿𝑡𝑠
are determined from the broadcast navigation message. The velocity
of light in a vacuum is denoted by 𝑐, and the tropospheric delay 𝑇𝑠
𝑟is
estimated using the Saastamoinen model (Saastamoinen, 1972). Due
to the ionosphere-free combination for dual-frequency pseudorange
measurements, the ionospheric delay is absorbed by the measurement
error 𝜖𝑠
𝑟.
𝑃𝑠
IF 𝑟
=
|𝑝𝑒
𝑠−𝑝𝑒
𝑟| + 𝑐(𝛿𝑡𝑟−𝛿𝑡𝑠) + 𝐼𝑠
𝑟+ 𝑇𝑠
𝑟+ 𝜖𝑠
𝑟.
(7)
The time systems varies among different navigation constellation,
and a minimum of five satellite signals are required to deliver complete
position and velocity services for our dual-constellation system. Thanks
to the abundant and evenly distributed signals from both GPS and
BDS, our system can receive more than a dozen satellite signals, even

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 224 (2024) 109177
6
H. Wang et al.
within a greenhouse covered with double-layer film. As a result, GNSS
degradation is not considered.
r (𝑃𝑠
IF 𝑟, 𝑇𝐝
)
=
|𝑅𝑧
(
𝜔𝐸𝑡
𝑠𝑗
𝑓𝑟𝑘
)
𝑝𝑒
𝑠𝑗−̂ 𝑝𝑒
𝑟𝑘|+
𝑐
(̂
𝛿𝑡𝑟𝑘−𝛿𝑡𝑠𝑗
)
+ 𝑇
𝑠𝑗
𝑟𝑘−𝑃
𝑠𝑗
IF 𝑟𝑘.
(8)
The device’s position in BA is constrained by the pseudorange
residuals, as illustrated in Eq. (8). The time 𝑡
𝑠𝑗
𝑓𝑟𝑘required for the
signal to travel from the 𝑗th satellite to the 𝑘th receiver position is
not instantaneous. To compensate for the Earth’s rotation during this
interval, we refer to the axis 𝑅𝑧and angular velocity 𝜔𝐸of the Earth’s
rotation. The receiver’s estimated position̂ 𝑝𝑒
𝑟𝑘is calculated from the
device’s estimated position̂ 𝑝𝑤
𝑏𝑖using Eqs. (6) and (4). The estimated
pseudorange represents the geometric distance between the satellite’s
position 𝑝𝑒
𝑠𝑗and the receiver’s estimated position̂ 𝑝𝑒
𝑟𝑘. The disparity
between the estimated pseudorange and the actual pseudorange mea-
surements, adjusted for the clock biaseŝ 𝛿𝑡𝑟𝑘and 𝛿𝑡𝑠𝑗of the receiver and
satellite, as well as the tropospheric delay 𝑇
𝑠𝑗
𝑟𝑘, forms the pseudorange
residuals r (𝑃𝑠
IF 𝑟, 𝑇𝐝
) in Eq. (2).
3.4. Doppler factor
It is well-known that when the relative velocity between the receiver
and the satellite is non-zero, the frequency of the signal received by
the receiver experiences a deviation from the fixed frequency set by
the satellite. The greater the relative velocity, the more significant the
deviation between the received signal frequency and the set frequency
becomes. Thus, when the satellite velocity is known, Doppler factor
can be employed to constrain the velocity of the receiver. The rela-
tionship among receiver velocity 𝑣𝑒
𝑟, satellite velocity 𝑣𝑒
𝑠, and Doppler
measurements 𝐷𝑠
𝑟is defined in Eq. (9).
𝐷𝑠
𝑟
=
−1
𝜆
(𝟏𝑠
𝑟
(𝑣𝑒
𝑠−𝑣𝑒
𝑟
) + 𝛿𝑓𝑟−𝛿𝑓𝑠+̇ 𝐼𝑠
𝑟+̇ 𝑇𝑠
𝑟
) + 𝜖𝑠
𝑟.
(9)
In Eq. (9), 𝛿𝑓𝑟represents the unknown drift in receiver clock fre-
quency, 𝛿𝑓𝑠denotes the drift in satellite clock frequency calculated
from the broadcast navigation message, and 𝟏𝑠
𝑟signifies the unit vector
pointing from the receiver to the satellite in ECEF coordinate system.
Considering the ionosphere and troposphere undergo slight changes
over millisecond timescales, their rates of change, denoted aṡ 𝐼𝑠
𝑟anḋ 𝑇𝑠
𝑟,
are integrated into random errors 𝜖𝑠
𝑟. The random error is also modeled
as a zero-mean Gaussian distribution.
r (𝐷𝑠
𝑟, 𝑣𝐝
)
=
1
𝜆
(
𝟏
𝐬𝐣
𝐫𝐤
(
𝑣𝑒
𝑠𝑗−̂ 𝑣𝑒
𝑟𝑘
)
+̂ 𝛿𝑓𝑟𝑘−𝛿𝑓𝑠𝑗
)
+ 𝐷
𝑠𝑗
𝑟𝑘.
(10)
The Doppler factor constrains the device velocity in BA, as depicted
in Eq. (10). The calculation of the Doppler residuals is similar to that
of the pseudorange residuals in Section 3.3. The receiver’s estimated
velocitŷ 𝑣𝑒
𝑟𝑘is calculated from the device’s estimated velocitŷ 𝑣𝑤
𝑏𝑖using
Eqs. (6) and (4). The estimated Doppler represents the difference be-
tween the satellite velocity 𝑣𝑒
𝑠𝑗and the estimated receiver velocitŷ 𝑣𝑒
𝑟𝑘.
The disparity between the estimated Doppler and the actual Doppler
measurements, adjusted for the clock frequency driftŝ 𝛿𝑓𝑟𝑘and 𝛿𝑓𝑠𝑗
of the receiver and satellite, is represented as the Doppler residuals
r (𝐷𝑠
𝑟, 𝑣𝐝
) in Eq. (2).
3.5. Pitaya tracking
To simplify annotation and calculation, contrasting the 3D tomato
tracking in point clouds by Rapado-Rincón et al. (2023), the pitaya
tracking in our system is divided into two components: detection
and tracking, both employing 2D real-time state-of-the-art image al-
gorithms. The well-known YOLOv8 network is employed to extract
the projected position and radius of the pitaya in the image (Jocher
et al., 2023). To ensure robust performance in greenhouse experiments,
we construct a dataset comprising 1267 images with varying sizes,
illumination, and maturity levels for training the network. As shown in
Fig. 4. The performance of the YOLOv8 network on the self-constructed pitaya dataset.
Green and red represent immature and mature pitaya, respectively, and the system
requires the position and quantity of the latter. The precision reaches one when the
confidence level is below 0.834, indicating the absence of false positives in the system’s
results. The recall is greater than zero in all confidence levels, indicating that our system
did not recognize pitaya in exceptional cases. Detailed cases and corresponding coping
strategies are presented in Section 5.3.
Fig. 4, The Mean Average Precision (mAP@0.5) of the neural network
on this dataset achieves an impressive 95.1%. Our system maintains the
unchanged network architecture, and thus, the YOLOv8 network output
includes the coordinates [
𝑎
𝑏
]⊤of the upper-left corner, length 𝑐,
width 𝑑, and the confidence level of the pitaya. The projected position
𝑝𝑖
𝑝∶[
𝑥
𝑦
𝑧
]⊤and projected radius 𝑟𝑖
𝑝of the pitaya are determined
by Eq. (11). (… )𝑙or (… )𝑟indicates whether pitaya is in the left or right
image.
𝑝𝑖
𝑝=
⎡
⎢
⎢
⎢⎣
𝑎𝑙+ 0.5 × 𝑐𝑙
𝑏𝑙+ 0.5 × 𝑑𝑙
𝑎𝑟+ 0.5 × 𝑐𝑟
⎤
⎥
⎥
⎥⎦
,
(11a)
𝑟𝑖
𝑝= 0.5 × 0.7 ×
√
𝑐𝑙× 𝑐𝑙+ 𝑑𝑙× 𝑑𝑙.
(11b)
The tracking algorithm selected by our system is Deep OC-Sort
(Maggiolino et al., 2023), which assigns a consistent ID to each pitaya
across consecutive frames. It is crucial to emphasize that the dedu-
plication process for pitaya in the tracking algorithm only works in
adjacent frames. As depicted in Fig. 5(a), if a pitaya reappears after
being obscured or moving out of the image, it will be assigned a new ID,
even if it is the same pitaya in reality. Consequently, the system requires
assistance from GNSS measurements to establish a globally consistent
map, thereby preventing repetitive counting.
3.6. Estimation of pitaya position
Pitaya that appear in both the left and right images with a confi-
dence level above the threshold, along with similar heights and radii,
are treated as matching pairs. Once the projected position 𝑝𝑖
𝑝of a
matching pair is known, the position 𝑝𝑐
𝑝of the pitaya in the 3D camera
coordinate system can be determined using Eq. (12). Additionally, the
position of the pitaya 𝑝𝑤
𝑝in the local coordinate system is derived based
on the camera’s position 𝑡𝑤
𝑐and orientation 𝑅𝑤
𝑐. The intrinsic parame-
ters of the camera include 𝑓𝑥, 𝑓𝑦, 𝑐𝑥, and 𝑐𝑦, whereas 𝑏represents the
baseline of the binocular camera.
𝑑=
𝑓𝑥× 𝑏
𝑝𝑖
𝑝.𝑥−𝑝𝑖
𝑝.𝑧,
(12a)

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 224 (2024) 109177
7
H. Wang et al.
Fig. 5. ID switching occurs when the pitaya is occluded or moved out of the image. As shown in Fig. 5(a), when the two pitaya are measured for the first time, the device moves
forward, and their IDs are 115 and 117. The second time they are measured, the device is moving backwards, and their new IDs are 196 and 198. The same is true for Fig. 5(b).
Due to the device’s movement, the fixed pitaya may not always be visible in the image. Consequently, determining whether the pitaya in two discontinuous images is the same
becomes challenging without the assistance of global position measurement. As shown in Fig. 11(a), this ID switching results in the same pitaya being created in two different
positions in the map.
𝑝𝑐
𝑝=
⎡
⎢
⎢
⎢
⎢⎣
(
𝑝𝑖
𝑝.𝑥−𝑐𝑥
)
× 𝑑
𝑓𝑥
(
𝑝𝑖
𝑝.𝑦−𝑐𝑦
)
× 𝑑
𝑓𝑦
𝑑
⎤
⎥
⎥
⎥
⎥⎦
,
(12b)
𝑝𝑤
𝑝= 𝑅𝑤
𝑐𝑝𝑐
𝑝+ 𝑡𝑤
𝑐.
(12c)
Aided by GNSS, the 3D position of each pitaya matching pair
in the map is unique and does not vary as the movement of the
device, thus avoiding repetitive counting. Nonetheless, as discussed
in Section 5.2, achieving a consistent position estimate with multiple
single-view measurements poses a challenge. Consequently, the system
utilizes the reprojection residuals, defined in Eq. (13), to constrain the
pitaya position. The projection function 𝜋𝑖
𝑐of the calibrated binocular
camera is utilized to project the pitaya from the 3D camera coordinate
system (… )𝑐to the 2D image coordinate system (… )𝑖. The disparity
between the measured projected position from the binocular image
and the estimated one constitutes a reprojection residual on the pitaya
position.
r (𝐕, 𝑝𝐩
) = 𝑝𝑖
𝑝−𝜋𝑖
𝑐
(̂
𝑅𝑐
𝑤̂𝑝𝑤
𝑝+̂ 𝑡𝑐
𝑤
)
,
(13a)
𝜋𝑖
𝑐
⎛
⎜
⎜
⎜⎝
⎡
⎢
⎢
⎢⎣
𝑥
𝑦
𝑧
⎤
⎥
⎥
⎥⎦
⎞
⎟
⎟
⎟⎠
=
⎡
⎢
⎢
⎢⎣
𝑓𝑥
𝑥
𝑧+ 𝑐𝑥
𝑓𝑦
𝑦
𝑧+ 𝑐𝑦
𝑓𝑥
𝑥−𝑏
𝑧
+ 𝑐𝑥
⎤
⎥
⎥
⎥⎦
.
(13b)
3.7. Estimation of pitaya radius
Pitaya yield is typically expressed as the total weight, representing
the aggregate weight of all pitaya in the greenhouse. Estimating the
weight of each pitaya requires its radius and the relationship between
radius and weight. The analytical algorithm for calculating the pitaya
radius is described by Eq. (14), corresponding to the projection illus-
trated in Fig. 6. In addition, our system excludes measurements where
𝜃exceeds a 45 degree angle due to the asymmetry between 𝑚and 𝑛
regarding 𝑝𝑥.
𝑚≈𝑝𝑥−𝑟𝑖
𝑝,
(14a)
𝑛≈𝑝𝑥+ 𝑟𝑖
𝑝,
(14b)
𝜃= 𝑎𝑟𝑐𝑡𝑎𝑛
(
𝑚
𝑓𝑥
)
,
(14c)
Fig. 6. Geometric demonstration of the projection of a spherical pitaya onto a binocular
camera. The baseline of the binocular camera is denoted as 𝑏, while 𝑂𝑙and 𝑂𝑟represent
the principal points of the left and right cameras. As 𝑝𝑖
𝑝.𝑧is a negative value, we
introduce a negative sign before 𝑝𝑧, which represents the distance. The 3D position is
determined by 𝑝𝑥and 𝑝𝑧, while the actual radius 𝑟𝑤
𝑝is calculated from 𝑚and 𝑛, which
are derived from the projected radius 𝑟𝑖
𝑝in Eq. (11).
𝜙= 0.5 ×
(
𝑎𝑟𝑐𝑡𝑎𝑛
(
𝑛
𝑓𝑥
)
−𝜃
)
,
(14d)
𝑟𝑤
𝑝= 𝑠𝑖𝑛(𝜙) ×
𝑧
𝑐𝑜𝑠(𝜃+ 𝜙) .
(14e)
As illustrated by Eq. (14), the initial step involves converting the
projected radius acquired from the pitaya tracking thread into angles
𝜃and 𝜙. Subsequently, these angles are integrated with the pitaya
depth 𝑧to compute the actual radius 𝑟𝑤
𝑝. Given that the measured angle
remains constant throughout the optimization iteration of the pitaya
state, it acts as a connection between the projected radius and the
actual radius. Eq. (15) illustrates the reprojection residuals on pitaya
radius, indicating the disparity between the measured radius and the
estimated radius.
r (𝐕, 𝑟𝐩
)
=̂
𝑟𝑤
𝑝−̂ 𝑧×
𝑠𝑖𝑛(𝜙)
𝑐𝑜𝑠(𝜃+𝜙).
(15)
3.8. Yield estimation
To reliably estimate yield, we further establish the relationship
between the radius and individual weight. Considering the ellipsoidal

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 224 (2024) 109177
8
H. Wang et al.
Table 2
Sensors and equipment used in the experiments and their detailed specifications.
Sensor Type/Item
Value
Unit
Camera
Sensor
AR0234
Shutter
Global
Resolution
1280 × 720
pixel
Horizontal field of view
100
degree
Vertical field of view
80
degree
Meas. frequency
20
Hz
IMU
Sensor (Built-in)
BMI-088
Meas. frequency
200
Hz
Gyroscope noise
1.89e−3
rad
s×
√
Hz
Accelerometer noise
1.87e−2
m
s2×
√
Hz
GNSS
Receiver1
ZED-F9P
Meas. frequency
10
Hz
RTK frequency
10
Hz
Receiver2
UM982
Meas. frequency
20
Hz
RTK frequency
20
Hz
Prime 17W
View number
10
Range
6 × 6 × 3
m
Solution frequency
200
Hz
Precision
0.1
mm
Table 3
The third-party open-source libraries used in main approaches of the system.
Library
Function
Version
Reference
RTKLIB
RINEX decoding
2.4.3
Takasu et al. (2009)
OpenCV
image processing
3.4.18
Bradski (2000)
g2o
graph optimization
1.0.0
Kümmerle et al. (2011)
approximation of pitaya, our system uses a cubic polynomial with
respect to the radius, as detailed in Eq. (16), to fit the weight. Using the
least squares algorithm, we calculate the three parameters 𝑎= 0.011,
𝑏= −0.521, and 𝑐= 14.656 from 54 pairs of weights and radii, measured
using the electronic scale and digital caliper depicted in Fig. 1. Because
of measurement and assumption errors, the coefficient of determination
𝑅2 for the fitted equation is 0.852.
𝑤𝑝
=
𝑎× 𝑟𝑤
𝑝
3 + 𝑏× 𝑟𝑤
𝑝
2 + 𝑐× 𝑟𝑤
𝑝.
(16)
4. Experiment
4.1. Experimental setup
As depicted in Fig. 1, our system is deployed on a handheld platform
that includes GNSS receivers, an IMU, and a binocular camera. The
detailed hardware specifications are shown in Table 2. Besides, we
utilize several third-party open-source libraries, as listed in Table 3,
to promptly verify the system’s feasibility. To tackle the inconsistent
trigger frequency of the these sensors, the platform synchronizes the
timestamps of the camera and IMU with Universal Time Coordinated
(UTC) by leveraging the Pulse Per Second (PPS) signal of the UM982.
All experiments in this section are conducted on a desktop computer
featuring an Intel i7-8700 CPU clocked at 3.8 GHz, 32 GB of RAM, and
an NVIDIA RTX-3060 GPU.
Indoor experiments are conducted at the Information Science Ex-
periment Center of USTC, as illustrated in Fig. 7. Because of the weak
indoor GNSS signal, we verify the accuracy of the pitaya’s position
estimated by our system using the optical 3D positioning device, Prime
17 W. We collect four sequences (A, B, C, and D) with references, ad-
justing the distance of the trajectory from the shelves while maintaining
the pitaya’s position and radius constant.
The greenhouse experiments are conducted at a commercial pitaya
plantation situated on the outskirts of Hefei City, Anhui Province. The
pitaya species cultivated in the plantation is Hylocereus costaricen-
sis, which is easily distinguished by its red fruits against the green
branches. An individual mature greenhouse is selected to validate our
system’s yield estimate, as depicted in Fig. 8(b). The experiments are
conducted in December 2023, with the greenhouse being covered by
a double-layer plastic film to retain warmth. Prior to the experiments,
twenty pitaya on the branches are selected and numbered. The sampled
pitaya are fresh, ripe and free from rot, with a radius within the
normal range, suitable for marketing. In addition, in order to verify the
accuracy of the system’s estimates over long distances and to facilitate
manual confirmation of the system’s results, the spacing between sam-
pling points is 2–5 m. The distances between them are measured using
a tape measure, serving as a reference for positioning. After collecting
two sequences (E and F), their actual radii and weights are measured
using an electronic scale and a digital caliper as references.
Our system employs the evaluation metrics outlined by Miranda
et al. (2023a), as shown in Eq. (17). The Root Mean Square Error
(RMSE) quantifies the position and radius error, while the Mean Abso-
lute Percentage Error (MAPE) quantifies the weight error. In addition,
the Coefficient of Variation (CV) quantifies the stability of the system in
estimating weight within the same sequence. 𝑥𝑖denotes the reference
value,̂ 𝑥𝑖denotes the estimated value,̄ 𝑥denotes the mean of the
estimated values, and 𝜎denotes the sample standard deviation of the
estimated values. 𝑛denotes the number of samples, with 24 samples for
indoor experiments, 20 for greenhouse experiments, and 5 for estimates
number of each sequence.
RMSE =
√∑𝑛
𝑖=1
(̂𝑥𝑖−𝑥𝑖
)2
𝑛
,
(17a)
MAPE = 1
𝑛
𝑛
∑
𝑖=1
|̂ 𝑥𝑖−𝑥𝑖
𝑥𝑖
| × 100%,
(17b)
CV = 𝜎̄
𝑥× 100%,
(17c)
where 𝜎=
√∑𝑛
𝑖=1
(̂𝑥𝑖−̄ 𝑥)2
𝑛−1
.
(17d)
4.2. Position accuracy analysis
To mitigate the impact of randomness introduced during feature
selection in feature tracking thread, Table 4 presents the RMSE between
30 estimates generated by our system from six sequences and their
corresponding references. Fig. 9 is a visualization of a single estimate
from indoor experiments, showing a map containing device’s motion
trajectory and 24 simulated pitaya models.
When comparing the horizontal and vertical position accuracy,
disparities emerge between indoor and greenhouse experiments. In
indoor experiments, the horizontal position estimation error is around
20 mm, surpassing the error in the vertical direction. In greenhouse
experiments, both horizontal and vertical accuracies are approximately
50 mm, indicating minimal disparity. This discrepancy may stem from
the ellipsoidal pitaya’s transverse positioning in indoor experiments,
approximated as a sphere, leading to uncertainty in the 𝑥-axis co-
ordinate within the image coordinate system output by the pitaya
tracking thread. While the orientation of the pitaya in the greenhouse
is arbitrary.
Regarding the comparison of positional error in the form of Eu-
clidean distance between the indoor and greenhouse experiments, the
former achieves approximately 30 mm, while the latter reaches about
70 mm. The positioning of the pitaya relies on the device’s coordinates.
As a result, sequences E and F, derived from long-range greenhouse
experiments, manifest higher pitaya positional errors in contrast to
those observed in indoor experiments with motion restrictions.

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 224 (2024) 109177
9
H. Wang et al.
Fig. 7. In indoor experiments, the simulated pitaya models are fixed on shelves with uniform spacing. The pitaya’s radius is larger in the blue area than in the yellow area. A
digital caliper is utilized to measure the reference radius in indoor experiments.
Fig. 8. Commercial pitaya plantation. The left image, captured in October, illustrates an outdoor temperature of approximately 20 ◦C, with the pitaya plantation left uncovered by
polyethylene plastic film. The red line marks the dimensions of the greenhouse, the blue line indicates the experimental area, and the yellow line indicates that the northeastern
part of the greenhouse is adjacent to the irrigation canal. The right image, captured in December when the outdoor temperature was approximately 10 ◦C, depicts the greenhouse
covered with a double-layer film, thus maintaining an indoor temperature of around 25 ◦C. Twenty pitaya are numbered, and distances between them are measured using a tape
measure as references.
Moreover, to assess the correlation between projection distance and
accuracy, we intentionally increased the gap between the trajectory
and two shelves incrementally from sequence A to sequence D during
indoor experiments. With an increase in 𝑧as indicated in Eq. (13), 𝑥
necessitates a larger positional correction than 𝑧to yield an equivalent
residual. Consequently, the positional error exhibits a gradual increase
from sequence A to sequence D.
4.3. Radius accuracy analysis
Accurate pitaya detection and decoupling the pitaya radius estima-
tion from the absolute position of the device contribute to a smaller
error in radius estimation compared to positional error. In indoor
experiments detailed in Table 4, the median radius RMSE for the large
pitaya is 6.4 mm, while for the small pitaya, it is 5.6 mm. The large size

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 224 (2024) 109177
10
H. Wang et al.
Fig. 9. A map containing pitaya created in indoor experiments. Each colored sphere represents an individual pitaya, and corresponds to the simulated pitaya model illustrated in
Fig. 7. The red line illustrates the trajectory of the device’s movement. All pitaya on both shelves are created, and their radii are accurately estimated.
Table 4
RMSEs for the estimated position and radius of the pitaya. Six sequences, denoted as A, B, C, D, E, and F, are collected during
the experiments. The first four sequences are acquired indoors, while the last two are acquired in the greenhouse. As there
are no large and small simulated pitaya models in greenhouse experiments, the corresponding entries are left blank. Results
for five typical estimates are presented for each sequence, so there are 30 entries in total in the table.
Sequence
Horizontal RMSE (mm)
Vertical RMSE (mm)
Large radius RMSE (mm)
Small radius RMSE (mm)
A1
19.5
12.3
6.8
4.9
A2
20.8
11.8
5.0
2.9
A3
19.9
12.1
5.9
2.5
A4
18.7
19.1
8.3
3.3
A5
20.5
12.1
8.5
3.6
B1
22.1
16.6
5.6
5.8
B2
22.8
17.9
8.1
6.6
B3
23.6
17.0
9.2
6.4
B4
21.3
18.1
8.6
6.4
B5
21.9
22.2
3.8
3.9
C1
23.3
19.0
4.8
5.6
C2
22.0
20.6
5.0
5.6
C3
24.3
22.0
7.0
8.1
C4
23.6
18.6
8.6
8.1
C5
19.6
17.3
9.8
7.6
D1
22.1
18.1
7.0
4.8
D2
22.5
19.9
4.6
5.2
D3
21.8
19.6
4.8
5.7
D4
31.8
26.8
5.4
6.5
D5
23.5
20.0
4.5
5.6
E1
47.6
39.0
E2
47.9
61.1
E3
61.5
53.1
E4
51.5
43.1
E5
39.3
45.0
F1
46.3
54.0
F2
42.8
51.1
F3
51.0
49.6
F4
45.5
57.1
F5
47.1
45.1
of the pitaya leads to less accurate estimation of 𝑚and 𝑛in Eq. (14),
resulting in lower accuracy in estimating the radius compared to the
small one.
Table 5 displays the system’s radius estimates for two sequences
conducted in the greenhouse, along with their respective errors. In
greenhouse experiments, the median radius RMSE is 7.1 mm, which
is slightly higher than that in indoor experiments. Possible reasons
include an inadequate number of measurements resulting from rapid
motion and occlusion due to complex environments. Nevertheless,
these errors remain below the actual pitaya radius of approximately
40 mm, thereby confirming the feasibility of radius estimation by our
system.
To uphold the precision of the system’s yield estimation, pitaya
located at distances exceeding twenty times the baseline are ignored,
thereby diminishing the clarity of the relationship between radius error
and projection distance.
4.4. Yield accuracy analysis
Following the exclusion of pitaya with unreasonable positions and
radii in the map, the total weight derived from summing the individual
weights calculated from the radii represents the estimated yield of a
single greenhouse. While it is feasible to harvest all pitaya from the
entire greenhouse and weigh them to verify accuracy, such an action
is wasteful. Consequently, we assess accuracy based on the twenty
sampled pitaya. All twenty pitaya in our system have been estimated
and none have been identified as outliers. Their mean weights and
MAPEs are listed in Table 5.

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 224 (2024) 109177
11
H. Wang et al.
Table 5
Errors in the radius and weight of pitaya in greenhouse experiments.
Sequence
Mean radius (mm)
Radius RMSE (mm)
Mean weight (g)
Weight MAPE (%)
E1
40.3
8.6
471.8
17.4
E2
39.7
5.1
459.9
13.9
E3
39.6
8.2
455.6
15.7
E4
39.6
7.1
454.3
14.9
E5
38.3
6.9
422.4
21.5
F1
40.5
6.0
492.4
18.2
F2
38.5
5.7
445.7
16.0
F3
40.2
8.6
433.7
17.1
F4
39.4
7.1
464.5
15.3
F5
40.2
8.1
485.9
13.2
Table 6
The time consumption of the main approaches in our system. Given that the speed of the feature tracking thread (feature
extraction + pose estimation) surpasses the camera output speed, our system runs in real-time.
Sequence
Pitaya detection (ms)
Feature extraction (ms)
Pose estimation (ms)
Pitaya creation (ms)
Local BA (ms)
A
12.6
20.4
6.6
113.7
256.7
B
13.1
23.8
10.7
94.9
293.4
C
13.5
22.7
7.2
112.2
307.2
D
12.9
22.7
8.4
115.1
222.2
E
12.5
21.7
7.6
38.8
145.0
F
12.9
22.2
12.1
37.6
108.1
According to Eq. (17), the CV of the estimated mean weight for
the sequence E is 4.1%, while that for the sequence F is 5.5%, which
indicates the stability of our system. Additionally, most of the weight
MAPEs in Table 5 remain within 20%, with a median of 15.7% in se-
quence E and 16% in sequence F. We manually checked and confirmed
that the system does not include repetitive counting in both sequences.
Consequently, based on the median weight MAPE of 20 pitaya sampled
from the 97 pitaya created in sequence E, we speculate that the yield es-
timation error of our system for the entire greenhouse is approximately
16%. Various factors will influence this result, notably the significant
deviation in the shape of the pitaya from the ellipsoid assumed by the
system. Additionally, the system encounters the challenge of missing
counting, as discussed in Section 5.3.
4.5. Distribution analysis
In addition, each pitaya created by our system is assigned a unique
position, which facilitates analysis of pitaya distribution rather than
just a total yield. The horizontal distribution portrayed in Fig. 10
indicates that pitaya are primarily concentrated in the northeastern
part of the greenhouse, with fewer occurrences in the central and
southwestern parts. Given that the northeastern part of the greenhouse
depicted in Fig. 8(a) is adjacent to an irrigation canal, providing more
abundant water and nutrients, this factor might have contributed to
this distribution pattern. Regarding vertical distribution, the growth of
pitaya shows no noticeable preference for height. They attach them-
selves to branches that are secured to shelves, ensuring that the height
of the pitaya remains below that of the shelves. The height being less
than one meter not only facilitates manual harvesting but also allows a
camera-equipped device to observe most pitaya without requiring ver-
tical movement. The radius distribution is also generally uniform, with
the majority measuring approximately 40 mm. Therefore, the system
leverages these regular vertical and radius distributions to eliminate
outliers.
4.6. Time analysis
Table 6 presents the time consumption of the main approaches
across various sequences in our system. Pitaya detection takes approx-
imately 12 ms, employed to forward propagate the image through
the neural network, and remains constant regardless of the number of
pitaya. The time consumption of feature extraction remains relatively
Fig. 10. Distribution of pitaya positions and radii estimated in greenhouse experiments,
and each circle represents a pitaya. The 𝑥-axis represents the relative position in the
south–north direction, and the 𝑦-axis represents the relative values in the west-east
direction, vertical direction, and pitaya radius, respectively. Because the greenhouse is
not strictly aligned with the ENU coordinate system, the circles in the upper figure are
distributed on a slope. To facilitate drainage during the rainy season, the greenhouse is
designed with higher elevation in the southwest and lower elevation in the northeast,
resulting in the tilted representation of relative altitude in the middle figure.
stable, as the parameters are fixed at 800 feature points and 5 layers of
the pyramid. If there is no pitaya in the sliding window, the pitaya
creation in Fig. 2 is skipped, so its time consumption is dependent
on the number of pitaya in the window. Owing to the lower density
of pitaya in the greenhouse compared to indoors, sequences E and F
require less time for pitaya creation.
Time consumed by local BA is similar to pitaya creation and cor-
relates with the number of state and residuals. Although pseudoranges
and Doppler residuals in greenhouse experiments can constrain the de-
vice’s position, their number, being less than a hundred, has a minimal
impact on time consumption. Indoor experiments involve numerous

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 224 (2024) 109177
12
H. Wang et al.
Table 7
Hardware cost estimates for several typical orchard reconstruction and fruit positioning systems. In our system, the depth camera only outputs inertial data, so only the cost of
the sensor chips is considered.
Reference
Robotic arm
Lidar
Depth camera
Binocular camera
IMU
GNSS receiver
Approximate prize (Dollar)
Kang et al. (2022)
Livox Mid-70
Realsense D455
1300
Chen et al. (2021)
6-DOF
ZED2
1200
Liu et al. (2023)
Livox Mid-70
Realsense D435
1100
Miranda et al. (2023a)
Azure Kinect
900
Gong et al. (2022)
Kinect v2
200
Ours
AR0234
BMI-088
UM982
200
overlapping perspectives, leading to a higher number of reprojection
residuals. Due to the reduced number of residuals in greenhouse experi-
ments with the same sliding window size, which is about half compared
to the indoor one, sequences E and F exhibit faster processing than the
first four sequences.
The bottleneck in processing speed within this system occurs within
the feature tracking thread as depicted in Fig. 2. This thread integrates
the Visual-Inertial Odometry (VIO) system, primarily involving feature
extraction and pose estimation. The former operates at a speed of
around 22 milliseconds per frame, while pose estimation takes approx-
imately 10 milliseconds per frame. The average processing speed of a
single VIO system is approximately 25 frames per second. Thanks to the
multi-threaded framework, the overall system operates at an average
speed of 23 frames per second. Since this speed exceeds the camera’s
output speed of 20 frames per second, our system ensures real-time
performance.
4.7. Cost analysis
An affordable and easy-to-maintain device is appealing for farming
with narrow profit margins. Table 7 illustrates the hardware costs for
several typical orchard studies. Given that most pitaya are under one
meter in height, our system does not necessitate a robotic arm for
vertical motion. Lidar offers numerous advantages, and its price is
expected to decrease with widespread adoption. Depth cameras are
widely used in orchard studies for several reasons, including being cost-
effective and easy to maintain, and offering denser depth and wider
field of view than lidar at appropriate distances, reflections, lighting,
and textures. (Fu et al., 2020). We also attempted to utilize depth
camera in our system. In winter greenhouse experiments, we observed
accurate depth estimation. However, under direct autumn sunlight,
certain pixels exhibit inaccurate or non-existent depth readings, as
encountered by Gong et al. (2022) or Kang et al. (2022). This challenge
is caused by the measurement principle based on structured light or
Time of Flight (ToF), and cannot be avoided. Therefore, we blocked
the image and depth output of the depth camera. Our system does not
use standard commodity kits, but rather abundantly available sensor
chips, so there is room for further price reduction through integration.
5. Discussion
5.1. GNSS validity
A tightly coupled VIO system can achieve centimeter-level accuracy
in small-range scenarios (Campos et al., 2021). Without global position
and velocity constraints, a system utilizing low-cost sensors becomes
insensitive to rotation, leading to distortion in the constructed map.
Fig. 11(a) illustrates the erroneous creation of the same pitaya multiple
times at different positions in the map, resulting in unreliable yield
estimation. Consequently, our system integrates GNSS raw measure-
ments to impose constraints on the device’s position and velocity,
ensuring consistency in the position and radius of the same pitaya
across multiple measurements, as depicted in Fig. 11(b).
5.2. Multi-view measurement
Pitaya positions calculated analytically from single-view measure-
ments often deviate from predefined distribution rules, posing chal-
lenges in achieving consistent estimates using methods like clustering.
As illustrated in Fig. 12, variations in perspective and distance result
in positional offsets, particularly in the depth direction, which can
be ten times the pitaya’s radius. Moreover, the occlusion by branches
limits the measurement to a specific perspective, resulting in fixed
uncertainty in that direction. Similar to estimating the pitaya position,
measuring the pitaya radius from different perspectives and distances
produces varying noise distributions, albeit significantly smaller than
the noise distribution of the position. Hence, our system utilizes a
unified reprojection residual to constrain both the position and radius
of the pitaya. Measurements with excessive residuals are excluded as
outliers to avoid interference with state estimation. The RMSE for
the horizontal and vertical positions of the pitaya, calculated using
the analytical algorithm from single-view measurements, is 134 and
237 mm, whereas our system achieves an RMSE within 30 mm in
indoor experiments.
5.3. Misidentification
The complex greenhouse environment leads to unpredictable
misidentifications by the pitaya detector. Increasing the size of the
dataset or enhancing its distribution can reduce false positives. Expand-
ing the dataset’s size ensures that objects like the red bricks shown in
Fig. 13(a) are no longer misclassified as pitaya. The manually discarded
rotten pitaya depicted in Fig. 13(b) are filtered based on their heights
above the ground. The dataset is segmented into mature and immature
categories to better handle cases like the one in Fig. 13(c). Therefore, in
both indoor and greenhouse experiments, once our system identifies an
object as a pitaya in the map, it is guaranteed to be a pitaya in reality.
In other words, there are zero false positives.
More challenging than false positives are false negatives, which
reduce the estimated yield and pose difficulties in appropriate han-
dling. Fig. 14(a) illustrates a case of treating multiple adjacent pitaya
as one, a common phenomenon during concentrated maturation. A
radius threshold is set by our system to suppress this error. The oc-
clusion depicted in Fig. 14(b) minimally interferes with the multi-view
measurement system since most pitaya can be fully exposed in cer-
tain perspectives. The system disregards the small pitaya depicted in
Fig. 14(c). On one hand, this prevents the detector from accumulating
sufficient features to make accurate judgments; On the other hand, in
reality, it cannot be sold in the market.
In the entire sequence E, the detector detected a total of 294 pitaya
in 2D images, and the system created 97 pitaya in the 3D map, out
of which 19 are filtered out. The reasons for system filtering include
cases where the radius or 3D position falls outside a reasonable range,
the number of multi-view measurements is below the threshold, or the
distance from the camera is unreasonable. The corresponding filtered
numbers for these reasons are 5, 12, and 8, respectively. Some pitaya
are filtered out due to multiple reasons simultaneously. Nonetheless,
biases are introduced into the system and several normal pitaya is
eliminated. The manual check results indicated that only 13 out of the
19 pitaya should have been filtered out, suggesting the need for further
investigation into missing counting.

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 224 (2024) 109177
13
H. Wang et al.
Fig. 11. The mappoints are represented by black dots, the device’s motion trajectory is indicated by a red line, and pitaya is depicted as colored spheres. Each pitaya is measured
multiple times, forming multiple colored lines connecting it to the trajectory. In the upper figure, the system exhibits low sensitivity to rotation, causing deviations between the
trajectory’s starting and ending points, with non-parallel back-and-forth trajectory. In the lower figure, the trajectory forms a closed loop under the constraints of the raw GNSS
measurements. In addition, because the same pitaya in Section 3.5 is assigned multiple IDs and is created at different positions in the map, this makes yield estimation unreliable.
In the lower figure, the pitaya fusion in Fig. 2, along with reprojection residuals from multi-view measurements, ensures a globally consistent estimate of both position and radius.
Fig. 12. Position and radius offset of three pitaya (ID = 1,2,3) estimated by two
different algorithms. The 𝑥-axis corresponds to multiple estimates of three pitaya,
while the 𝑦-axis represents the offset of the results. The original estimates are adjusted
by subtracting the averages, ensuring they are centered at zero. The 𝑧-axis (depth
direction) exhibits higher uncertainty in position offsets calculated from single-view
measurements (s-v) by analytical algorithms. In multi-view measurements (m-v), the
3D position constrained by multiple reprojection residuals is more stable and accurate
compared to the former, thanks to the outlier exclusion. The radius offset estimated by
both approaches is roughly one order of magnitude smaller than the position offset.
6. Conclusions and future work
This article introduces a system that tightly couples complementary
sensors for estimating the position and radius of pitaya, further estimat-
ing greenhouse yield. The system integrates raw measurements from a
binocular camera, IMU, and GNSS receiver within the graph optimiza-
tion framework, which provides a cost-effective and low-maintenance
alternative compared to lidar or robotic arm. Only the state of sparse
mappoints and pitaya are estimated, combined with inertial assisted
visual navigation, enables the system to achieve real-time performance.
The integration of dual-frequency GNSS raw measurements ensures the
global consistency of the constructed map, even in a commercial green-
house with strong multipath interference, while also avoids repetitive
Fig. 13. Three cases of false positives. In Fig. 13(a), the detector mistakenly identifies
a brick as a pitaya. In Fig. 13(b), the detector incorrectly re-identifies a discarded
pitaya with wormholes on the ground. Fig. 13(c) shows a case of immature pitaya
being misidentified.
counting. The pitaya state is constrained by the reprojection residuals
from multi-view measurements in a unified probability factor graph,
thereby facilitating outlier exclusion and improving radius estimation
accuracy. Results from indoor and greenhouse experiments demon-
strate that the position RMSE of pitaya is 7 cm, the radius RMSE is

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 224 (2024) 109177
14
H. Wang et al.
Fig. 14. Three cases of false negatives. In Fig. 14(a), the detector erroneously interprets
the two closely positioned pitaya at the bottom as a single entity. In Fig. 14(b), the
pitaya remains undetected due to obstruction by branches. In Fig. 14(c), despite being
red, the upper pitaya is not recognized due to its premature ripeness and small size.
7 mm, and the weight MAPE of individual pitaya is about 16%. In
conclusion, our system has demonstrated the feasibility of achieving
real-time and accurate pitaya yield estimation through the integration
of cost-effective sensors with general computing resources.
In greenhouse experiments, the vertical position accuracy of our
system is lower than that of the horizontal one, which is consistent with
the characteristics of pure GNSS measurements. Satellites are only dis-
tributed around and above, and their signals cannot penetrate the earth
to propagate. As a result, there are more constraints in the horizontal
direction than the vertical direction in the factor graph. Moreover, our
pitaya tracking algorithm, originally designed for general objects, may
result in missing counting for pitaya. For future research, we plan to
explore and integrate additional low-cost sensors, such as barometers
and magnetometers, into our systems to enhance the vertical accuracy.
Additionally, we will improve the neural network architecture and try
more challenging fruits, such as occluded and similar-colored pears, tall
and dense apples, as well as low and small strawberries.
CRediT authorship contribution statement
Hongjie Wang: Writing – original draft, Software, Methodology,
Conceptualization. Xiangyu Hong: Software, Data curation. Linlin
Qin: Writing – review & editing, Supervision, Methodology. Chun Shi:
Supervision. Gang Wu: Supervision.
Declaration of competing interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing finan-
cial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to
influence the work reported in this paper.
Data availability
Data will be made available on request.
Acknowledgments
This work is supported by students’ innovation and entrepreneur-
ship foundation of USTC, China (CY2022G30), and the indoor experi-
mental venue is provided by the Information Science Experiment Center
of USTC, China. The authors wish to thank the useful comments of the
anonymous reviewers to this paper.
References
Bai, X., Li, Z., Li, W., Zhao, Y., Li, M., Chen, H., Wei, S., Jiang, Y., Yang, G., Zhu, X.,
2021. Comparison of machine-learning and casa models for predicting apple fruit
yields from time-series planet imageries. Remote Sens. 13, http://dx.doi.org/10.
3390/rs13163073, URL: https://www.mdpi.com/2072-4292/13/16/3073.
Blewitt, G., 1990. An automatic editing algorithm for gps data. Geophys. Res. Lett. 17,
199–202. http://dx.doi.org/10.1029/GL017i003p00199.
Bradski, G., 2000. The OpenCV library. Dr. Dobb’s J. Softw. Tools.
Campos, C., Elvira, R., Rodríguez, J.J.G., Montiel, J.M.M., Tardós, J.D., 2021. Orb-
slam3: An accurate open-source library for visual, visual–inertial, and multimap
slam. IEEE Trans. Robot. 37, 1874–1890. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TRO.2021.
3075644.
Cao, S., Lu, X., Shen, S., 2022. Gvins: Tightly coupled gnss–visual–inertial fusion
for smooth and consistent state estimation. IEEE Trans. Robot. 38, 2004–2021.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TRO.2021.3133730.
Chen, M., Tang, Y., Zou, X., Huang, Z., Zhou, H., Chen, S., 2021. 3D global
mapping of large-scale unstructured orchard integrating eye-in-hand stereo vi-
sion and slam. Comput. Electron. Agric. 187, 106237. http://dx.doi.org/10.
1016/j.compag.2021.106237, URL: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/
pii/S0168169921002544.
Dorj, U.O., Lee, M., seok Yun, S., 2017. An yield estimation in citrus orchards
via fruit detection and counting using image processing. Comput. Electron.
Agric. 140, 103–112. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2017.05.019, URL: https:
//www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168169916312455.
Forster, C., Carlone, L., Dellaert, F., Scaramuzza, D., 2017. On-manifold preintegration
for real-time visual–inertial odometry. IEEE Trans. Robot. 33, 1–21. http://dx.doi.
org/10.1109/TRO.2016.2597321.
Fu, L., Gao, F., Wu, J., Li, R., Karkee, M., Zhang, Q., 2020. Application of consumer
rgb-d cameras for fruit detection and localization in field: A critical review. Comput.
Electron. Agric. 177, 105687. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2020.105687,
URL: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168169920319530.
Gené-Mola, J., Sanz-Cortiella, R., Rosell-Polo, J.R., Escolà, A., Gregorio, E., 2021.
In-field apple size estimation using photogrammetry-derived 3d point clouds:
Comparison of 4 different methods considering fruit occlusions. Comput. Electron.
Agric. 188, 106343. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2021.106343, URL: https:
//www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168169921003604.
Gong, L., Wang, W., Wang, T., Liu, C., 2022. Robotic harvesting of the oc-
cluded fruits with a precise shape and position reconstruction approach. J.
Field
Robotics
39,
69–84.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/rob.22041,
URL:
https:
//onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/rob.22041. arXiv:https://onlinelibrary.
wiley.com/doi/pdf/10.1002/rob.22041.
He, L., Fang, W., Zhao, G., Wu, Z., Fu, L., Li, R., Majeed, Y., Dhupia, J., 2022. Fruit yield
prediction and estimation in orchards: A state-of-the-art comprehensive review for
both direct and indirect methods. Comput. Electron. Agric. 195, 106812. http://
dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2022.106812, URL: https://www.sciencedirect.com/
science/article/pii/S0168169922001296.
Herrero-Huerta,
M.,
González-Aguilera,
D.,
Rodriguez-Gonzalvez,
P.,
Hernández-
López, D., 2015. Vineyard yield estimation by automatic 3d bunch modelling
in field conditions. Comput. Electron. Agric. 110, 17–26. http://dx.doi.org/10.
1016/j.compag.2014.10.003, URL: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/
pii/S0168169914002506.
Hou, C., Zhang, X., Tang, Y., Zhuang, J., Tan, Z., Huang, H., Chen, W., Wei, S.,
He, Y., Luo, S., 2022. Detection and localization of citrus fruit based on im-
proved you only look once v5s and binocular vision in the orchard. Frontiers in
Plant Science 13, http://dx.doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2022.972445, URL: https://www.
frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fpls.2022.972445.
Jocher, G., Chaurasia, A., Qiu, J., 2023. Ultralytics yolov8. URL: https://github.com/
ultralytics/ultralytics.
Kamatham, Y., Vemuri, S.S., 2017. Analysis and estimation of multipath interference us-
ing dual and triple frequency gnss signals. In: 2017 IEEE Applied Electromagnetics
Conference. AEMC, pp. 1–2. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/AEMC.2017.8325762.
Kang, H., Wang, X., Chen, C., 2022. Accurate fruit localisation using high reso-
lution lidar-camera fusion and instance segmentation. Comput. Electron. Agric.
203,
107450.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2022.107450,
URL:
https://
www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S016816992200758X.
Kschischang, F., Frey, B., Loeliger, H.A., 2001. Factor graphs and the sum–product
algorithm. IEEE Trans. Inform. Theory 47, 498–519. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/
18.910572.

Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 224 (2024) 109177
15
H. Wang et al.
Kubo, N., 2009. Advantage of velocity measurements on instantaneous rtk positioning.
GPS Solut. 13, 271–280. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10291-009-0120-9.
Kümmerle, R., Grisetti, G., Strasdat, H., Konolige, K., Burgard, W., 2011. G2o: A general
framework for graph optimization. In: 2011 IEEE International Conference on
Robotics and Automation. pp. 3607–3613. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ICRA.2011.
5979949.
Li, T., Sun, M., He, Q., Zhang, G., Shi, G., Ding, X., Lin, S., 2023. Tomato
recognition and location algorithm based on improved yolov5. Comput. Electron.
Agric. 208, 107759. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2023.107759, URL: https:
//www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168169923001473.
Liu, T., Kang, H., Chen, C., 2023. Orb-livox: A real-time dynamic system for fruit
detection and localization. Comput. Electron. Agric. 209, 107834. http://dx.doi.
org/10.1016/j.compag.2023.107834, URL: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/
article/pii/S0168169923002223.
Luo, L., Tang, Y., Zou, X., Ye, M., Feng, W., Li, G., 2016. Vision-based extraction of
spatial information in grape clusters for harvesting robots. Biosyst. Eng. 151, 90–
104. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2016.08.026, URL: https://www.
sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1537511015303901.
Maggiolino, G., Ahmad, A., Cao, J., Kitani, K., 2023. Deep oc-sort: Multi-pedestrian
tracking by adaptive re-identification. In: 2023 IEEE International Conference
on Image Processing. ICIP, pp. 3025–3029, URL: https://api.semanticscholar.org/
CorpusID:257102808.
Matese, A., Di Gennaro, S.F., 2021. Beyond the traditional ndvi index as a key
factor to mainstream the use of uav in precision viticulture. Sci. Rep. 11, 2721.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/s41598-021-81652-3.
Miranda, J.C., Arnó, J., Gené-Mola, J., Lordan, J., Asín, L., Gregorio, E., 2023a.
Assessing automatic data processing algorithms for rgb-d cameras to predict fruit
size and weight in apples. Comput. Electron. Agric. 214, 108302. http://dx.doi.
org/10.1016/j.compag.2023.108302, URL: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/
article/pii/S0168169923006907.
Miranda, J.C., Gené-Mola, J., Zude-Sasse, M., Tsoulias, N., Escolà, A., Arnó, J., Rosell-
Polo, J.R., Sanz-Cortiella, R., Martínez-Casasnovas, J.A., Gregorio, E., 2023b. Fruit
sizing using ai: A review of methods and challenges. Postharvest Biol. Technol.
206, 112587. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.postharvbio.2023.112587, URL: https://
www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925521423003484.
Mur-Artal, R., Tardós, J.D., 2017a. Orb-slam2: An open-source slam system for
monocular, stereo, and rgb-d cameras. IEEE Trans. Robot. 33, 1255–1262. http:
//dx.doi.org/10.1109/TRO.2017.2705103.
Mur-Artal, R., Tardós, J.D., 2017b. Visual-inertial monocular slam with map reuse. IEEE
Robot. Autom. Lett. 2, 796–803. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/LRA.2017.2653359.
Obsie, E.Y., Qu, H., Drummond, F., 2020. Wild blueberry yield prediction using a
combination of computer simulation and machine learning algorithms. Comput.
Electron. Agric. 178, 105778. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2020.105778,
URL: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S016816992031156X.
Pini, M., Marucco, G., Falco, G., Nicola, M., De Wilde, W., 2020. Experimental
testbed and methodology for the assessment of rtk gnss receivers used in precision
agriculture. IEEE Access 8, 14690–14703. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2020.
2965741.
Rakun, J., Stajnko, D., Zazula, D., 2019. Plant size estimation based on the construction
of high-density corresponding points using image registration. Comput. Electron.
Agric. 157, 288–304. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2018.12.053, URL: https:
//www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168169917304660.
Rapado-Rincón, D., van Henten, E.J., Kootstra, G., 2023. Development and evalua-
tion of automated localisation and reconstruction of all fruits on tomato plants
in a greenhouse based on multi-view perception and 3d multi-object tracking.
Biosyst. Eng. 231, 78–91. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2023.06.003,
URL: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1537511023001162.
Rehder, J., Nikolic, J., Schneider, T., Hinzmann, T., Siegwart, R., 2016. Extending
kalibr: Calibrating the extrinsics of multiple imus and of individual axes. In: 2016
IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation. ICRA, pp. 4304–4311.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ICRA.2016.7487628.
Saastamoinen, J., 1972. Contributions to the theory of atmospheric refraction. Bull.
Géod. (1946-1975) 105, 279–298. http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/BF02521844.
Santos, T.T., de Souza, L.L., dos Santos, A.A., Avila, S., 2020. Grape detection,
segmentation, and tracking using deep neural networks and three-dimensional
association. Comput. Electron. Agric. 170, 105247. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/
j.compag.2020.105247,
URL:
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/
S0168169919315765.
Takasu, T., et al., 2009. Rtklib: Open source program package for rtk-gps. In: Proceed-
ings of the FOSS4G. vol. 1, pp. 1–6, URL: https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:
37732623.
Wulfsohn, D., Aravena, Zamora, F., Potin, T., 2012. Multilevel systematic sampling
to estimate total fruit number for yield forecasts. Precis. Agric. 13, 256–275.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s11119-011-9245-2.
Xiong, J., Liang, J., Zhuang, Y., Hong, D., Zheng, Z., Liao, S., Hu, W., Yang, Z.,
2023. Real-time localization and 3d semantic map reconstruction for unstruc-
tured citrus orchards. Comput. Electron. Agric. 213, 108217. http://dx.doi.org/10.
1016/j.compag.2023.108217, URL: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/
pii/S0168169923006051.
Yu, T., Hu, C., Xie, Y., Liu, J., Li, P., 2022. Mature pomegranate fruit detection
and location combining improved f-pointnet with 3d point cloud clustering
in orchard. Comput. Electron. Agric. 200, 107233. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/
j.compag.2022.107233,
URL:
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/
S0168169922005476.
