 
 
 
Agriculture 2025, 15, 1574 
https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture15151574 
Article 
Phenotypic Trait Acquisition Method for Tomato Plants Based 
on RGB-D SLAM 
Penggang Wang 1,2,3, Yuejun He 1,2,3,*, Jiguang Zhang 4,*, Jiandong Liu 1,2,3, Ran Chen 1,2,3 and Xiang Zhuang 1,2,3 
1 North China Institute of Aerospace Engineering, Langfang 065000, China;  
wangpg@stumail.nciae.edu.cn (P.W.); liujd@stumail.nciae.edu.cn (J.L.); cran199@stumail.nciae.edu.cn (R.C.); 
zx1033676206@stumail.nciae.edu.cn (X.Z.) 
2 National & Regional Joint Engineering Research Center for Aerospace Remote Sensing Application Technology, 
Langfang 065000, China 
3 Aerospace Remote Sensing Information Processing and Application Collaborative Innovation Center of 
Hebei Province, Langfang 065000, China 
4 Institute of Automation of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100090, China 
* Correspondence: yuejunhe1981@nciae.edu.cn (Y.H.); jiguang.zhang@ia.ac.cn (J.Z.) 
Abstract 
The acquisition of plant phenotypic traits is essential for selecting superior varieties, im-
proving crop yield, and supporting precision agriculture and agricultural decision-mak-
ing. Therefore, it plays a significant role in modern agriculture and plant science research. 
Traditional manual measurements of phenotypic traits are labor-intensive and inefficient. 
In contrast, combining 3D reconstruction technologies with autonomous vehicles enables 
more intuitive and efficient trait acquisition. This study proposes a 3D semantic recon-
struction system based on an improved ORB-SLAM3 framework, which is mounted on 
an unmanned vehicle to acquire phenotypic traits in tomato cultivation scenarios. The 
vehicle is also equipped with the A * algorithm for autonomous navigation. To enhance 
the semantic representation of the point cloud map, we integrate the BiSeNetV2 network 
into the ORB-SLAM3 system as a semantic segmentation module. Furthermore, a two-
stage filtering strategy is employed to remove outliers and improve the map accuracy, 
and OctoMap is adopted to store the point cloud data, significantly reducing the memory 
consumption. A spherical fitting method is applied to estimate the number of tomato 
fruits. The experimental results demonstrate that BiSeNetV2 achieves a mean intersection 
over union (mIoU) of 95.37% and a frame rate of 61.98 FPS on the tomato dataset, enabling 
real-time segmentation. The use of OctoMap reduces the memory consumption by an av-
erage of 96.70%. The relative errors when predicting the plant height, canopy width, and 
volume are 3.86%, 14.34%, and 27.14%, respectively, while the errors concerning the fruit 
count and fruit volume are 14.36% and 14.25%. Localization experiments on a field dataset 
show that the proposed system achieves a mean absolute trajectory error (mATE) of 0.16 
m and a root mean square error (RMSE) of 0.21 m, indicating high localization accuracy. 
Therefore, the proposed system can accurately acquire the phenotypic traits of tomato 
plants, providing data support for precision agriculture and agricultural decision-making. 
Keywords: ORB-SLAM3; plant phenotypic traits; semantic segmentation; tomato plant; 
unmanned vehicle 
 
 
 
Academic Editor: Francesco Marinello 
Received: 23 June 2025 
Revised: 15 July 2025 
Accepted: 21 July 2025 
Published: 22 July 2025 
Citation: Wang, P.; He, Y.; Zhang, J.; 
Liu, J.; Chen, R.; Zhuang, X.  
Phenotypic Trait Acquisition 
Method for Tomato Plants Based on 
RGB-D SLAM. Agriculture 2025, 15, 
1574. https://doi.org/10.3390/ 
agriculture15151574 
Copyright: © 2025 by the authors. 
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. 
This article is an open access article 
distributed under the terms and con-
ditions of the Creative Commons At-
tribution (CC BY) license (https://cre-
ativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). 

Agriculture 2025, 15, 1574 
2 of 25 
 
 
1. Introduction 
With the continuous expansion of modern agricultural production, it has become in-
creasingly difficult and costly to rely solely on manual labor for tasks such as pest and 
disease monitoring, phenotypic trait acquisition, and yield estimation. As a result, inte-
grating artificial intelligence technologies into various aspects of agricultural production 
[1–3] has emerged as a key research focus in the field of smart agriculture. Three-dimen-
sional reconstruction of crops enables a comprehensive understanding of plants’ pheno-
typic traits, which reflect the current growth status and cultivation conditions of the plants 
[4]. These phenotypic characteristics facilitate the extraction of various plant parameters 
[5–7] and support automated monitoring. 
With the advancement of smart agriculture, numerous studies have been conducted 
on three-dimensional (3D) reconstruction methods for crops. Traditional 3D reconstruc-
tion techniques include multi-view stereo (MVS) [8], structure from motion (SfM) [9], and 
time-of-flight (ToF) [10]. Both MVS and SfM reconstruct 3D structures from two-dimen-
sional images captured from multiple viewpoints. Bao et al. [11] employed MVS to recon-
struct 3D models of sorghum plants and successfully extracted their phenotypic traits. 
Van et al. [12] combined MVS with the A * algorithm on an autonomous robot to enable 
automatic cucumber harvesting. Zhu et al. [13] applied SfM to reconstruct 3D models of 
rice and maize and further achieved high-fidelity visualization using clustering and fitting 
methods. Liu et al. [14] proposed a combined SfM-MVS approach for measuring the mor-
phological parameters of potato tubers. ToF technology is typically integrated into scan-
ning devices such as LiDAR and depth cameras. Shi et al. [15] utilized LiDAR for 3D re-
construction of maize and achieved real-time phenotypic trait measurement. Marinello et 
al. [16] used a Kinect depth camera to estimate the volume and mass of grape bunches. 
Thapa et al. [17] employed an LMS 511 LiDAR scanner to acquire phenotypic parameters 
such as the leaf area and leaf inclination angles for maize and sorghum. However, tradi-
tional 3D reconstruction methods are often sensitive to the lighting conditions or depend-
ent on expensive scanning equipment, making them challenging to apply in outdoor en-
vironments. Over the past decade, visual simultaneous localization and mapping 
(vSLAM) has undergone rapid development. Owing to its low implementation cost and 
reliable reconstruction performance in outdoor settings, it has gradually become a main-
stream approach for 3D plant reconstruction in smart agriculture. 
Numerous studies have employed visual SLAM to acquire the phenotypic trait pa-
rameters of plants and guide agricultural development. Fan et al. [18] proposed a portable 
RGB-D SLAM system to reconstruct large-scale forests, obtaining tree location and height 
information. Dong et al. [19] utilized a depth camera combined with the ORB-SLAM2 sys-
tem to capture and track the point cloud data of fruits in orchards. Pierzchala et al. [20] 
integrated multiple sensors, including stereo cameras and LiDAR, to map forest environ-
ments, providing precise tree location data for forestry vehicles. Kim et al. [21] developed 
a framework named P-AgSLAM to extract distinctive morphological features of maize in 
cornfields. Lobefaro et al. [22] achieved high-precision spatiotemporal matching and data 
association in pepper fields by combining RGB-D SLAM with visual place recognition. 
Nellithimaru et al. [23] integrated deep learning with visual SLAM and used stereo cam-
eras to capture regions of interest, enabling stable grape counting in vineyards. Fan et al. 
[24] reconstructed maize crops using RGB-D cameras and estimated the maize stalk di-
ameters by analyzing the convexities and projections in the point clouds. Wang et al. [25] 
improved ORB-SLAM2 and combined it with the YOLOv4 and DeepSORT algorithms to 
localize and count melons. Islam et al. [26] proposed the AGRI-SLAM system, which in-
tegrates image enhancement techniques to enable real-time environmental reconstruction 
under a wider range of agricultural conditions, including low-light scenarios. Tang et al. 
[27] employed a multi-sensor fusion SLAM system to conduct fruit tree localization 

Agriculture 2025, 15, 1574 
3 of 25 
 
 
experiments in pear and persimmon orchards, achieving high localization accuracy and 
constructing global maps of the orchards through 3D reconstruction. In previous studies, 
SLAM has been utilized to construct 3D maps for acquiring crop phenotypic traits. How-
ever, these maps typically represent only geometric features and exhibit limited expres-
siveness for regions of interest. By incorporating semantic information into the map, the 
representation of such regions can be enhanced, thereby improving both the expressive-
ness and the usability of the 3D map. 
Integrating semantic or instance segmentation into SLAM to construct semantic point 
cloud maps that emphasize the phenotypic trait information of crops has become a re-
search hotspot in agriculture. Xiong et al. [28] incorporated the semantic segmentation 
network BiSeNetV1 into VINS-RGBD to achieve 3D semantic reconstruction of citrus trees 
and estimated the fruit yield through conditional filtering and spherical fitting. Liu et al. 
[29] proposed a fruit counting framework using Faster R-CNN for fruit detection followed 
by semantic SfM for reconstruction and counting. Yuan et al. [30] combined the PP-
LiteSeg-T network with VINS-RGBD to map strawberry fields and count strawberry 
fruits. Giang et al. [31] employed ORB-SLAM3 alongside a semantic segmentation net-
work to generate semantic point cloud maps of sweet peppers, facilitating the detection 
of the lowest branch pruning points. Liu et al. [32] integrated ORB-SLAM3 with semantic 
segmentation to classify mature strawberries, guiding harvesting activities. Xie et al. [33] 
proposed a multi-object semantic segmentation network, MM-ED, combined with ORB-
SLAM3 to build semantic point cloud maps of unstructured lawns, providing a reference 
and guidance for weeding operations. Pan et al. [34] designed a novel semantic mapping 
framework that employs the 3D-ODN detection network to extract object information 
from point clouds. The experimental results demonstrated that the system enables high-
precision understanding of agricultural environments. Although these studies enrich 
point cloud representation by incorporating semantic segmentation and highlighting re-
gions of interest, the data acquisition is performed manually, which is highly challenging 
in large-scale agricultural plantations. The use of embedded devices such as unmanned 
aerial vehicles (UAVs) or unmanned ground vehicles (UGVs) to assist with data collection 
can alleviate labor demands and reduce long-term operational costs. 
Integrating unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) or unmanned ground vehicles (UGVs) 
enables more flexible 3D reconstruction of crops, thereby improving the efficiency of plant 
phenotypic trait acquisition. The ultimate goal of smart agriculture is to combine intelli-
gent equipment to support automated agricultural production. UAVs can rapidly acquire 
phenotypic trait data for small-scale fields, such as the plant height [35] or canopy cover-
age [36]. Sun et al. [37] utilized UAVs for 3D reconstruction of apple trees to obtain pa-
rameters including the tree height and canopy volume. Sarron et al. [38] performed 3D 
reconstruction of mango orchard trees using UAVs, achieving accurate mango yield esti-
mation. UGVs are more suitable for detailed 3D reconstruction of shorter plants and pro-
vide finer mapping results. Siebers et al. [39] employed a UGV combined with LiDAR to 
generate precise 3D point clouds of grapevine rows for rapid phenotypic information ex-
traction and conducted preliminary assessment of the grape nutritional status. Qiu et al. 
[40] designed a LiDAR-equipped mobile robot to reconstruct maize plants and measured 
phenotypic parameters such as the plant height and row spacing. Wang et al. [41] devel-
oped a 3D reconstruction robot for greenhouse environments and validated the system in 
an eggplant cultivation base, successfully predicting the fruit counts. Nguyen et al. [42] 
developed DairyBioBot, a fully automated phenotyping platform equipped with LiDAR 
and RTK sensors, to reconstruct perennial ryegrass and estimate its field biomass. Qi et al. 
[43] proposed a CNN-based loop closure detection method tailored for intelligent embed-
ded agricultural devices and suitable for RGB-D SLAM. The system was validated in 

Agriculture 2025, 15, 1574 
4 of 25 
 
 
greenhouse environments and demonstrated high accuracy and real-time performance in 
loop detection. 
Ma et al. [44] employed an improved YOLOv5 model to detect tree trunks and pe-
destrians, integrating it into a visual SLAM system to assist intelligent agricultural equip-
ment in achieving more precise localization. These studies primarily focus on embedded 
devices for crop 3D reconstruction, but most rely on high-cost sensors such as LiDAR and 
are conducted offline. Therefore, employing lightweight visual SLAM for crop 3D model-
ing can reduce the investment costs while enabling real-time acquisition of phenotypic 
traits and growth status. 
To address the challenges encountered in the application of 3D modeling technolo-
gies in smart agriculture, this study proposes an ORB-SLAM3-based system integrated 
with the lightweight semantic segmentation network BiSeNetV2. The system aims to over-
come the lack of semantic information in point cloud maps and the limited real-time per-
formance of existing approaches. A two-stage filtering method is employed to remove 
noise from the semantic point cloud, and OctoMap is used for efficient storage, thereby 
addressing the issue of large-scale point cloud data management. The entire system is 
deployed on an unmanned ground vehicle equipped with the A * algorithm and validated 
in a tomato plantation. The experimental platform demonstrates the potential to signifi-
cantly reduce labor requirements. The main contributions of this study are as follows: 
1. 
Develop a 3D reconstruction robotic platform tailored for greenhouse environments, 
enabling accurate extraction of crop phenotypic traits from 3D maps. The platform 
was validated in a tomato plantation. 
2. 
Design a reconstruction system optimized for low-profile crops, integrating a light-
weight semantic segmentation module to enhance the representation of regions of 
interest, while maintaining real-time performance by segmenting only keyframes. 
3. 
Propose a two-stage filtering method to enhance the point cloud accuracy and adopt 
OctoMap for efficient storage on embedded devices. 
4. 
A tomato fruit semantic segmentation dataset with precise annotations is con-
structed, providing valuable data support for future research on tomato plants. 
2. Materials and Methods 
2.1. Study Area and Data Acquisition 
In this study, a tomato cultivation base located in Gu’an County, Langfang City, was 
selected as the study area for data acquisition. Gu’an County is situated in the central part 
of the North China Plain (39°26′–39°45′ N, 116°09′–116°32′ E) and has a semi-humid con-
tinental monsoon climate, characterized by four distinct seasons, abundant sunlight, and 
rich thermal resources. The average annual temperature is approximately 12.1 °C, and the 
annual precipitation ranges from 500 to 600 mm, providing favorable conditions for agri-
cultural development. In recent years, Gu’an County has actively promoted modern agri-
culture, with a continuously expanding scale of protected vegetable cultivation. As one of 
the major crops, tomatoes are widely grown with diverse management practices, making 
the region a representative sample area for studying crop phenotypic traits. 
On 18 April 2025, image data of tomato plants were collected at the tomato cultiva-
tion base in Gu’an County using an Intel RealSense D435i depth camera(Intel, Bangkok, 
Thailand) and a Nikon Z30 camera(Nikon, Tokyo, Japan) equipped with a 50–250 mm 
f/4.5–6.3 lens. The image acquisition covered tomato plants and fruits of varying maturity 
levels and under varying lighting conditions. The high-resolution images clearly captured 
the morphological structures of the plants, providing a reliable data foundation for sub-
sequent tasks such as semantic segmentation, feature extraction, and 3D reconstruction of 
tomato plants. 

Agriculture 2025, 15, 1574 
5 of 25 
 
 
Images captured by the D435i and Nikon Z30 cameras were jointly used to train the 
semantic segmentation network. In the self-constructed tomato dataset, the D435i was 
used to acquire wide-view images of tomato plants, while the Nikon Z30 was used to 
capture close-up images. A total of 300 wide-view and 300 close-up images were collected. 
All the images were uniformly resized and cropped to a resolution of 640 × 480 pixels and 
annotated using the Labelme software (version 5.4.1). The final dataset consisted of 600 
annotated images. Sample images from the dataset are shown in Figure 1. 
 
Figure 1. Examples of dataset images and annotations: (a) represents a wide-view image captured 
by the D435i, and (c) represents a close-up image captured by the Nikon Z30. Moreover, (b,d) show 
the corresponding semantic annotation maps for (a,c), respectively. 
The system was tested in real-world scenarios using a UGV platform, as shown in 
Figure 2a, while Figure 2b presents the corresponding visualization results during the ex-
periment. The UGV platform consists of a sensor module, a chassis module, and a control 
module. The sensor module includes an Intel RealSense D435i depth camera, a 2D LiDAR, 
and an RTK positioning system. The chassis module supports keyboard and joystick con-
trol, with a maximum payload capacity of 50 kg and a maximum operating speed of 0.8 
m/s. The control module is PC-based, running Ubuntu 20.04 and ROS. Equipped with the 
A * algorithm, the UGV performs autonomous navigation in the field to collect data and 
conduct 3D reconstruction. During the experiment, RTK was used to obtain the ground-
truth trajectory of the UGV; the Intel RealSense D435i was used to capture RGB and depth 
images; a monitor was used to visualize the experimental results; and a LiDAR sensor was 
employed for obstacle avoidance and path planning. 

Agriculture 2025, 15, 1574 
6 of 25 
 
 
 
Figure 2. UGV data acquisition and experimental platform. (a) Hardware platform; (b) Example of 
runtime interface results. 
2.2. Improved ORB-SLAM3 System 
This study performs 3D semantic reconstruction of tomato plants based on an im-
proved ORB-SLAM3 system. Compared to ORB-SLAM2, ORB-SLAM3 incorporates iner-
tial measurement unit (IMU) input to assist in camera pose estimation and introduces a 
multi-map system, resulting in improved reconstruction quality and localization accu-
racy. Based on the practical application scenario, we further enhanced ORB-SLAM3. The 
specific workflow is illustrated in Figure 3. 
Since the 3D reconstruction results of ORB-SLAM3 consider only geometric infor-
mation and lack semantic expressiveness, we integrated a semantic module into the sys-
tem to enhance the representation of the point cloud map. Considering that the system 
runs on embedded devices, measures are necessary to reduce the computational and stor-
age burdens. As the majority of the computational load originates from the semantic seg-
mentation module’s inference, we selected the lightweight semantic segmentation net-
work BiSeNetV2 and performed segmentation only on keyframe images. For the point 
cloud map storage, OctoMap was employed to significantly reduce the storage require-
ments, making it suitable for large-scale agricultural 3D reconstruction. 
It is worth noting that this study adopted a “segment-then-reconstruct” approach to 
generate semantic point clouds. This strategy is based on the maturity of current image 
semantic segmentation techniques, which can provide more detailed and accurate seman-
tic information at the image level. By generating point clouds from segmented semantic 
images, the complexity of the subsequent point cloud processing is effectively reduced, 
thereby improving the computational efficiency. Moreover, this module is easier to inte-
grate in practical applications, demonstrating favorable engineering feasibility. 
The system first performs tracking and pose estimation on each input frame and de-
termines whether the frame qualifies as a keyframe based on the motion information. The 
keyframe selection is guided by the pose change and tracking quality between the current 
frame and the reference keyframe. Specifically, a frame is marked as a keyframe when the 
translation or rotation relative to the previous keyframe exceeds the predefined thresh-
olds, or when the number of successfully tracked map points drops significantly. For each 
selected keyframe, semantic segmentation is performed, and the pixel-level semantic la-
bels are projected into the 3D space using the corresponding depth map, pose information, 
and camera intrinsics to generate a 3D semantic point cloud. The resulting semantic point 
cloud is then processed through a two-stage filtering pipeline to remove noise and redun-
dant information, and it is subsequently integrated into an OctoMap to construct the 3D 
semantic map. The system retains the local optimization and loop closure modules of 

Agriculture 2025, 15, 1574 
7 of 25 
 
 
ORB-SLAM3 to ensure the global consistency and accuracy of the reconstructed map. The 
detailed workflow of the improved ORB-SLAM3 system is presented in Section 1 of Ap-
pendix A. 
 
Figure 3. Workflow diagram of the improved ORB-SLAM3 system. The blue components represent 
the original modules of the ORB-SLAM3 system, the orange components indicate the modules we 
added or modified, and the green components denote key data generated during system operation. 
2.3. Semantic Segmentation Module 
In this study, we employed the lightweight bilateral segmentation network BiSe-
NetV2 for the pixel-level semantic segmentation of tomato plant images. The network ar-
chitecture is illustrated in Figure 4. BiSeNetV2 is particularly well-suited for real-time 3D 
semantic reconstruction of low-height crops in agricultural scenarios due to its efficient 
network design and excellent segmentation performance. 
 
Figure 4. Workflow diagram of the BiSeNetV2 semantic segmentation network. 
The core architecture of the BiSeNetV2 network consists of three main components: 
the bilateral segmentation network, the guided aggregation layer, and an enhanced train-
ing strategy. This design allows the network to maintain a high inference speed while 
meeting the accuracy requirements of semantic segmentation. As shown in Figure 4, the 
green box represents the bilateral segmentation network, which is composed of a detail 
branch (highlighted in purple) and a semantic branch (highlighted in yellow).The detail 
branch adopts a wide and shallow structure to effectively extract high-resolution bound-
ary and texture information, which is beneficial for delineating structurally complex re-
gions such as the leaves and fruits of tomato plants. In contrast, the semantic branch 

Agriculture 2025, 15, 1574 
8 of 25 
 
 
employs a deep and narrow architecture, incorporating depthwise separable convolu-
tions, fast downsampling, and global average pooling to capture rich contextual seman-
tics. This enhances the network’s ability to interpret complex scenes involving back-
ground clutter and occlusion. The dual-branch structure enables the complementary fu-
sion of semantic and geometric features, resulting in robust segmentation performance 
even under conditions of dense crop distribution or leaf occlusion. 
The blue box represents the guided aggregation layer, which employs a bidirectional 
attention mechanism to efficiently fuse the detail and semantic features extracted by the 
bilateral segmentation network. Compared with traditional operations such as concatena-
tion or element-wise addition, this module minimizes the information loss during the fu-
sion process. As a result, it offers improved discriminative capability when dealing with 
challenges such as blurred plant edges and leaf occlusions in tomato plants. 
BiSeNetV2 also incorporates an enhanced training strategy, indicated by the orange 
box in the figure. This strategy embeds lightweight FCNHead auxiliary heads at different 
levels of the semantic branch to guide the network in learning multi-scale features more 
effectively. During training, these auxiliary heads help improve the convergence speed 
and robustness of the network. However, they are completely removed during inference, 
thus introducing no additional computational overhead into the semantic segmentation 
process and ensuring the overall efficiency of the system. 
The semantic segmentation network integrated into the SLAM system performs seg-
mentation only on selected keyframes to avoid compromising the system’s real-time per-
formance. BiSeNetV2 accurately and efficiently segments the keyframe images, and the 
semantic segmentation results are used to assign semantic labels to the point clouds gen-
erated during mapping, thereby constructing a structurally clear and semantically explicit 
3D semantic point cloud map. Its excellent inference speed and segmentation accuracy 
ensure the real-time capability and precision of the semantic map construction, facilitating 
subsequent tasks such as fruit identification and region extraction in tomato plants. 
2.4. Two-Stage Filtering Method 
Abnormal points may appear in the 3D reconstruction map due to factors such as 
lighting variations and dynamic objects. The presence of these outliers degrades the qual-
ity of the final point cloud map and increases the errors in estimating the phenotypic 
shape of tomato plants from the point cloud data. Therefore, to enable the point cloud 
map to more accurately represent tomato plants, we applied a two-stage filtering process 
on the tomato point cloud, consisting of pass-through filtering followed by statistical fil-
tering. 
In the first stage, pass-through filtering is applied to the point cloud of tomato plants 
along the vertical direction to remove a large number of non-plant points in the back-
ground. This process can be expressed by Equation (1), where x, y, and z represent the 
coordinates of points in the point cloud, and (𝑋𝑚𝑖𝑛, 𝑋𝑚𝑎𝑥), (𝑌𝑚𝑖𝑛, 𝑌𝑚𝑎𝑥) and (𝑍𝑚𝑖𝑛, 𝑍𝑚𝑎𝑥) 
denote the filtering ranges along the three coordinate axes, respectively. 
{
𝑋𝑚𝑖𝑛< 𝑥< 𝑋𝑚𝑎𝑥
𝑌𝑚𝑖𝑛< 𝑦< 𝑌𝑚𝑎𝑥
𝑍𝑚𝑖𝑛< 𝑧< 𝑍𝑚𝑎𝑥
 
(1)
Since pass-through filtering only provides an approximate range of valid tomato 
plant points, a secondary filtering step is necessary to improve the accuracy of the local 
point cloud. In the second stage, statistical filtering is applied to the remaining point 
cloud. Statistical filtering removes outliers by analyzing the distances between neighbor-
ing points within each point’s local neighborhood. Specifically, for each point, 
𝑃𝑖(𝑥𝑖, 𝑦𝑖, 𝑧𝑖)(𝑖= 1,2, … , 𝑛) , the average distance 𝑑𝑖  to its k nearest neighbors, 
𝑃𝑗(𝑥𝑗, 𝑦𝑗, 𝑧𝑗)(𝑗= 1,2, … , 𝑘) , k is calculated using Equation (2). Then, the mean 𝜇  and 

Agriculture 2025, 15, 1574 
9 of 25 
 
 
standard deviation 𝛿 of these average distances are computed, assuming they follow a 
Gaussian distribution. The valid range of the point cloud distances is defined as 
[𝜇−𝑘𝛿, 𝜇+ 𝑘𝛿]. For each point 𝑃𝑖, if its average distance 𝑑𝑖 lies within this interval, it is 
retained; otherwise, it is removed. By tuning the parameters of the statistical filter, a bal-
ance between mapping accuracy and filtering speed for tomato plant reconstruction is 
achieved. 
𝑑𝑖= 1
𝑘∑√(𝑥𝑖−𝑥𝑗)
2 + (𝑦𝑖−𝑦𝑗)
2 + (𝑧𝑖−𝑧𝑗)
2
𝑘
𝑗=1
, 𝑖∈(1,2, … , 𝑛) 
(2)
2.5. OctoMap Construction 
In this study, the map constructed by ORB-SLAM3 is a dense point cloud, which 
requires substantial storage space. This poses a challenge for embedded devices with lim-
ited storage capacity, making it difficult to store large-scale 3D reconstruction results in 
agricultural scenarios. To address this issue, we employed OctoMap to convert and store 
the dense point cloud. Maps constructed with OctoMap offer flexible storage and can be 
incrementally updated, making them well-suited for large-scale agricultural applications. 
The principle of representing dense point clouds using OctoMap is illustrated in Fig-
ure 5. OctoMap models the 3D space as a cube, which can be recursively subdivided into 
eight smaller cubes of equal size. This process begins from a root node, where each node 
can expand into eight child nodes, and the subdivision continues iteratively. Based on this 
principle, the entire dense point cloud is progressively partitioned so that each node rep-
resents a smaller spatial region, until a predefined resolution is reached. By adjusting the 
threshold parameters, OctoMaps of different resolutions can be generated to meet varying 
precision requirements. Section 2 in Appendix A describes the algorithmic process of Oc-
toMap. 
 
Figure 5. Schematic diagram of the OctoMap principle. 
In the final OctoMap, each node contains information indicating whether the corre-
sponding space is occupied. The occupancy status of a node is represented using a log-
odds formulation, as defined in Equation (3), where 𝛼 denotes the log-odds and p repre-
sents the probability of occupancy. By rearranging Equation (3), we obtain Equation (4), 
which shows that as 𝛼 varies within the range (−∞, +∞), the corresponding probability 
p lies within the interval [0, 1]. 
𝛼= 𝑙𝑜𝑔𝑖𝑡(𝑝) = 𝑙𝑜𝑔(
𝑝
1 −𝑝) 
(3)

Agriculture 2025, 15, 1574 
10 of 25 
 
 
𝑝= 𝑙𝑜𝑔𝑖𝑡−1(𝛼) =
1
1 + 𝑒𝑥𝑝(−𝛼) 
(4)
When all eight child nodes within a block are consistently marked as either occupied 
or free, the root node corresponding to that block will cease further subdivision. When the 
𝛼 value of a node exceeds the defined threshold, the node is considered occupied and can 
be visualized, thereby being regarded as a stable node. 
In this study, the improved ORB-SLAM3 system integrates with OctoMap through 
the mapping thread, which outputs dense semantic point clouds. When the mapping 
thread processes keyframes and generates the corresponding dense semantic point 
clouds, these point clouds are immediately passed to the OctoMap module for spatial 
voxelization and incremental map updates. Compared to directly storing point clouds, 
this representation significantly reduces the memory consumption, improves the pro-
cessing efficiency, and enhances the system’s deployability on resource-constrained plat-
forms. As a result, it increases the feasibility of performing large-scale 3D semantic recon-
struction in agricultural environments. 
3. Results and Discussion 
3.1. Semantic Segmentation Experiments on Tomato Plants 
The performance of semantic segmentation directly affects the accuracy of construct-
ing the semantic point cloud map. Therefore, it is necessary to evaluate the performance 
of the BiSeNetV2 network. We selected several classic semantic segmentation networks—
ICNet [45], PSPNet [46], SegFormer [47], DeepLabv3+ [48], and BiSeNetV1 [49]—to com-
pare their segmentation performance with BiSeNetV2. The training dataset consisted of 
600 uniformly cropped images of tomato plants, with annotations only on the tomato 
fruits. During training, the dataset was split into training, validation, and test sets at a 
ratio of 7:2:1. Figure 6 presents segmentation examples produced by different networks 
on our tomato dataset. The results indicate that all the selected networks can clearly seg-
ment the tomato fruits; however, segmentation inaccuracies occur in some regions due to 
environmental factors such as lighting variations. 
 
Figure 6. Examples of the segmentation results from different semantic segmentation networks: (a) 
original images; (b) manually annotated images; and (c–h) segmentation results from the ICNet, 
PSPNet, SegFormer, DeepLabv3+, BiSeNetV1, and BiSeNetV2 networks, respectively. 
To quantitatively evaluate the semantic segmentation results, we selected the 𝑚𝐼𝑜𝑈, 
𝑚𝐴𝑐𝑐, and 𝐹𝑃𝑆 as evaluation metrics for the different semantic segmentation networks. 

Agriculture 2025, 15, 1574 
11 of 25 
 
 
The 𝑚𝐼𝑜𝑈 represents the average ratio of the intersection to the union between the 
ground truth and predicted regions for each class, expressed by Equation (5), where 𝑇𝑃 
denotes true positives, 𝐹𝑃 false positives, 𝐹𝑁 false negatives, and k is the number of 
classes. The 𝑚𝐴𝑐𝑐 indicates the mean classification accuracy across all the classes and is 
defined by Equation (6), where i denotes the i-th class. 𝐹𝑃𝑆 represents the number of im-
ages processed per second by the semantic segmentation network, calculated by Equation 
(7), where 𝑓𝑟𝑎𝑚𝑒𝑁𝑢𝑚 is the total number of processed images and 𝑒𝑙𝑎𝑝𝑠𝑒𝑑𝑇𝑖𝑚𝑒 is the 
total processing time. 
𝑚𝐼𝑜𝑈=
1
𝑘+ 1 ∑
𝑇𝑃
𝐹𝑁+ 𝐹𝑃+ 𝑇𝑃
𝑘
𝑖=0
 
(5)
𝑚𝐴𝑐𝑐=
1
𝑘+ 1 ∑
𝑇𝑃𝑖
𝑇𝑃𝑖+ 𝐹𝑁𝑖
𝑘
𝑖=0
 
(6)
𝐹𝑃𝑆= 𝑓𝑟𝑎𝑚𝑒𝑁𝑢𝑚𝑠
𝑒𝑙𝑎𝑝𝑠𝑒𝑑𝑇𝑖𝑚𝑒 
(7)
The experiments were conducted on a Ubuntu 20.04 operating system, using an In-
tel® CoreTM i9-14900KF CPU and an NVIDIA RTX 4080S GPU. PyTorch 1.11 was employed 
for network training. The training process used a fixed number of iterations, with the max-
imum set uniformly to 20,000 iterations, and the learning rate was set to 1 × 10−3. Table 1 
presents the final experimental results. 
Table 1. Performance comparison of various semantic segmentation networks. 
Model 
Encoder 
mIoU (%) 
mAcc (%) 
FPS 
ICNet 
PSPNet50 
93.51 
96.19 
60.12 
PSPNet 
ResNet50 
95.26 
97.39 
53.48 
SegFormer 
Mix Transformer B0 
94.44 
96.84 
57.97 
DeepLabv3+ 
ResNet50 
92.21 
96.41 
51.63 
BiSeNetV1 
ResNet18 
93.77 
96.58 
61.59 
BiSeNetV2 
- 
95.37 
97.38 
61.98 
The experimental results reveal a trade-off between segmentation accuracy and pro-
cessing speed across different semantic segmentation networks on the tomato dataset. 
PSPNet and BiSeNetV2 achieved mIoU scores of 95.26% and 95.37%, respectively, with 
both networks reaching mAcc values above 97%, indicating strong performance in terms 
of the segmentation accuracy. BiSeNetV2 attained the highest inference speed at 61.98 
FPS, demonstrating well-balanced performance between accuracy and real-time pro-
cessing. Although ICNet and BiSeNetV1 showed slightly lower accuracy compared to 
PSPNet and BiSeNetV2, their FPS values reached 60.12 and 61.59, respectively, indicating 
solid real-time capabilities. DeepLabv3+ achieved relatively high mAcc but exhibited the 
lowest mIoU and FPS, suggesting that while its performance was balanced, it was not par-
ticularly outstanding in this experiment. Overall, BiSeNetV2 demonstrated the best bal-
ance between high segmentation accuracy and fast inference speed, making it well-suited 
to meet the system’s requirements for both segmentation precision and real-time perfor-
mance. 
 
 

Agriculture 2025, 15, 1574 
12 of 25 
 
 
3.2. Three-Dimensional Semantic Reconstruction of Tomato Plants 
To validate the proposed system, we deployed it on an unmanned vehicle and con-
ducted field experiments. In the tomato cultivation base, the plants were grown using a 
string-hanging method and exhibited high planting density. In this study, 3D semantic 
point cloud maps were constructed for both individual tomato plants and entire rows. For 
the purpose of dataset construction and fruit count estimation, only tomato fruits were 
annotated during the experiments. To facilitate the direct extraction of the predicted val-
ues based on the point cloud coordinates, the DepthMapFactor parameter was set to 1000 
during the 3D reconstruction process. The resulting 3D semantic point cloud maps gener-
ated by the system are shown in Figure 7. 
 
Figure 7. Three-dimensional semantic reconstruction results of tomato plants: (a) shows the 3D se-
mantic reconstruction of a single tomato plant; and (b) presents the reconstruction of an entire row 
of tomato plants. In the semantic point cloud, tomato fruits are highlighted in red. 
Figure 7 shows the 3D semantic reconstruction results of the tomato plants. As ob-
served, the system effectively distinguishes between the tomato plants and their fruits. 
However, the reconstructed plant boundaries are not clearly defined. This is mainly at-
tributed to lighting variations and sensor measurement errors, which introduce a large 
number of outliers into the point cloud map. These outliers negatively impact the accuracy 
of the subsequent phenotypic trait estimation. Therefore, filtering is required to remove 
the noise and improve the overall mapping accuracy. 
Considering the sources of noise and the morphological characteristics of tomato 
plants, we applied a two-stage filtering approach combining pass-through filtering and 
statistical filtering. First, pass-through filtering was used in the vertical direction to re-
move a large number of non-tomato and background points. Then, statistical filtering was 
applied to eliminate the remaining outliers and refine the boundaries of the tomato plant 
point cloud. Figure 8 illustrates the results at different stages of the filtering process. 

Agriculture 2025, 15, 1574 
13 of 25 
 
 
 
Figure 8. Filtering results of the tomato plant point clouds: (a,c) show the results of pass-through 
filtering and statistical filtering for a single tomato plant, respectively; and (b,d) show the results of 
pass-through filtering and statistical filtering for a single row of tomato plants, respectively. 
As shown in Figure 8, the pass-through filtering method effectively removes non-
tomato outliers such as ground and sky points in the spatial domain, ensuring the inde-
pendence and accuracy of the tomato plant structure in the point cloud map. Furthermore, 
statistical filtering is applied in the local density domain to eliminate outliers. The figure 
illustrates that statistical filtering successfully suppresses local anomalies caused by sen-
sor noise or environmental interference, thereby improving the overall clarity and con-
sistency of the point cloud map. 
Traditional point cloud maps require large amounts of storage space, which poses a 
challenge for embedded systems with limited storage capacity, making it difficult to store 
large-scale 3D farmland maps. To address this issue and enable scalable 3D modeling in 
agricultural scenarios, we adopted OctoMap to compress and store the point cloud data. 
Figure 9 shows the visualization results of an OctoMap constructed from the point cloud 
of a single row of tomato plants, with the base resolution set to 0.05 m. 
 
Figure 9. Visualization result of the OctoMap. 
To quantitatively evaluate the storage efficiency of OctoMap for point cloud com-
pression, we selected three individual tomato plants and two rows of tomato plants and 
assessed the storage consumption of their 3D semantic point clouds. Since both filtering 

Agriculture 2025, 15, 1574 
14 of 25 
 
 
operations and OctoMap construction contribute to storage reduction, we conducted a 
staged quantitative analysis of the memory usage. The experimental results are presented 
in Table 2. 
As shown in the table, the filtering process not only improves the quality of the point 
clouds but also reduces the memory consumption by an average of 9.92%. Furthermore, 
the use of OctoMap significantly reduces the storage size of the point cloud maps, achiev-
ing an average memory savings of 96.70%. Therefore, the filtering process combined with 
OctoMap construction effectively addresses the storage limitations of embedded devices 
in large-scale farmland scenarios. 
Table 2. Evaluation results of the memory consumption for filtering operations and OctoMap stor-
age. 
Sample 
Semantic 
Point Cloud 
Map (MB) 
After Filter-
ing (MB) 
Memory Sav-
ing After Fil-
ter (%) 
Building Oc-
toMap (MB) 
OctoMap 
Memory Sav-
ing (%) 
The first to-
mato plant 
7.73 
6.96 
9.96 
0.32 
95.86 
The second to-
mato plant 
8.11 
7.49 
7.64 
0.40 
95.07 
The third to-
mato plant 
8.49 
7.74 
8.83 
0.35 
95.88 
The first row 
of tomato 
plants 
73.63 
64.35 
12.60 
1.32 
98.21 
The second 
row of tomato 
plants 
56.78 
50.79 
10.55 
0.86 
98.49 
Mean 
- 
- 
9.92 
- 
96.70 
3.3. Phenotypic Trait Acquisition of Tomato Plants 
Accurate 3D models of tomato plants can be obtained through 3D semantic recon-
struction. To evaluate the accuracy of the system’s 3D reconstruction results and extract 
phenotypic traits, we selected the 3D semantic point clouds of 10 tomato plants for partial 
phenotypic feature extraction during the experiments. The ground truth phenotypic traits 
of the tomato plants were obtained through manual measurements. All the experimental 
results were quantitatively evaluated using the relative error, which is defined by Equa-
tion (8), where 𝑁𝑝 denotes the predicted value from the system and 𝑁𝑡 denotes the 
ground truth measurement. 
𝛿= |𝑁𝑝−𝑁𝑡|
𝑁𝑡
× 100% 
(8)
3.3.1. Acquisition of Plant Height, Canopy Width, and Plant Volume 
Acquiring phenotypic traits such as the plant height and canopy width of tomato 
plants enables an understanding of their growth status and guides optimal planting den-
sity. Therefore, we estimated parameters including the plant height, canopy width, and 
volume. The predicted values were obtained using the filtered semantic point clouds of 
the tomato plants, where 𝐻𝑝, 𝑊𝑝, and 𝑉𝑝 denote the plant height, canopy width, and vol-
ume of the 3D model, respectively. In the semantic point cloud, 𝐻𝑚𝑎𝑥, 𝑊𝑚𝑎𝑥, and 𝐿𝑚𝑎𝑥 
represent the maximum values of the plant model along the y-axis, x-axis, and z-axis, 

Agriculture 2025, 15, 1574 
15 of 25 
 
 
respectively, while 𝐻𝑚𝑖𝑛, 𝑊𝑚𝑖𝑛, and 𝐿𝑚𝑖𝑛 represent the corresponding minimum values. 
Therefore, 𝐻𝑝, 𝑊𝑝, and 𝑉𝑝 can be calculated according to Equation (9). 
{
 
 
𝐻𝑝= 𝐻𝑚𝑎𝑥−𝐻𝑚𝑖𝑛
𝑊𝑝= (𝑊𝑚𝑎𝑥−𝑊𝑚𝑖𝑛) + (𝐿𝑚𝑎𝑥−𝐿𝑚𝑖𝑛)
2
𝑉𝑝= 𝐻𝑝× 𝑊𝑝× 𝑊𝑝
 
(9)
To enhance the validity of the experimental evaluation, the manual measurement of 
the tomato canopy width was conducted along directions consistent with the x-axis and 
z-axis of the system’s 3D reconstruction coordinate frame. Since the tomato plants in the 
orchard are cultivated using a string-hanging method, for convenient evaluation, the 
height measurement and prediction of the tomato plants were defined from the plant base 
to the position of the fifth fruit cluster, representing the ground truth and predicted plant 
height, respectively. Table 3 presents the experimental results comparing the ground truth 
measurements and system predictions for the plant height, canopy width, and volume of 
the tomato plants. 
Table 3. Measured and predicted values of the plant height, canopy width, and volume for 10 to-
mato plants. 
Tomato 
Plant 
Plant Height (cm) 
Canopy Width (cm) 
Volume (dm3) 
 
Predicted 
Value 
Measured 
Value 
Relative 
Error 
Predicted 
Value 
Measured 
Value 
Relative 
Error 
Predicted 
Value 
Measured 
Value 
Relative 
Error 
1 
116.9 
120.5 
2.99 
62.5 
55.7 
12.21 
456.64 
373.85 
22.15 
2 
123.3 
120.7 
2.15 
56.6 
49.6 
14.11 
395.00 
296.94 
33.02 
3 
142.3 
138.6 
2.67 
59.1 
50.6 
16.80 
497.03 
354.87 
40.06 
4 
120.7 
125.7 
3.98 
55.6 
48.6 
14.40 
373.13 
296.90 
25.68 
5 
136.8 
132.4 
3.32 
57.0 
53.4 
6.74 
444.46 
377.55 
17.72 
6 
125.4 
130.7 
4.06 
55.2 
51.1 
8.02 
382.10 
341.29 
11.96 
7 
140.1 
133.5 
4.94 
54.4 
50.2 
8.37 
414.61 
336.43 
23.24 
8 
133.7 
130.5 
2.45 
52.6 
46.8 
12.39 
369.92 
285.83 
29.42 
9 
122.4 
126.5 
3.24 
48.0 
40.6 
18.23 
282.01 
208.52 
35.24 
10 
138.6 
135.8 
2.06 
51.8 
45.4 
14.10 
371.90 
279.91 
32.86 
Mean 
- 
- 
3.86 
- 
- 
14.34 
- 
- 
27.14 
Analysis of Table 3 indicates that the average relative error for predicting the tomato 
plant height through 3D reconstruction is 3.86%, demonstrating high prediction accuracy. 
This is attributed to the clear and well-defined boundaries for both manual measurement 
and prediction of the plant height, which are less affected by external factors. However, 
the average relative error for the canopy width prediction is 14.34%. This larger error is 
mainly due to the susceptibility of tomato leaves to external influences during 3D recon-
struction, causing leaf positions to shift and resulting in inaccurate mapping boundaries. 
Additionally, unavoidable manual intervention during physical measurements contrib-
utes to the error. The plant volume, calculated based on the height and canopy width, 
accumulates errors from both parameters, leading to an average relative error of 27.14% 
in the volume prediction. Despite these errors, the average relative errors for all the phe-
notypic parameters remain within acceptable ranges, thereby validating the feasibility of 
obtaining plant phenotypic traits using 3D reconstruction. 
 
 

Agriculture 2025, 15, 1574 
16 of 25 
 
 
3.3.2. Acquisition of Tomato Fruit Count and Volume 
We obtained the number and volume of the tomato fruits from the filtered semantic 
point cloud. Since the semantic point cloud contained only the segmented tomato fruits, 
a conditional filter with constrained color thresholds was applied to extract the tomato 
fruit points. The extraction result is shown in Figure 10a. The extracted point cloud was 
then imported into CloudCompare software, where the RANSAC Shape Detection tool 
was used for spherical fitting. Based on the empirically measured radius range of typical 
tomato fruits, the minimum radius was set to 0.023 and the maximum radius to 0.030. The 
final fitting result is shown in Figure 10b, in which the number of fitted spheres corre-
sponds to the number of tomato fruits predicted by the system. 
 
Figure 10. Results of the tomato fruit point cloud extraction and spherical fitting: (a) shows the ex-
tracted point cloud of the tomato fruits, and (b) shows the result after spherical fitting of the tomato 
fruit point cloud. 
To verify the feasibility of fruit counting and indirectly evaluate the accuracy of the 
3D map, we conducted fruit count experiments on three individual tomato plants and 
three rows of tomato plants. A quantitative assessment was performed on the spherical 
fitting results of the tomato fruits. The experimental results are presented in Table 4, where 
the ground truth number of tomato fruits was obtained through manual counting. 
Analysis of Table 4 shows that, after multiple trials, the average relative error of the 
predicted fruit count was 14.36%, indicating a high level of prediction accuracy. During 
the experiments, the completeness of the reconstruction for occluded fruits was relatively 
low due to occlusions caused by leaves and neighboring fruits. As a result, these occluded 
fruits were excluded from the spherical fitting process, contributing to the prediction er-
ror. In addition, residual noise points in the extracted tomato fruit point cloud may have 
led to overlapping fitted spheres during the fitting process, introducing further errors. 
Table 4. Comparison between the ground truth and predicted number of tomato fruits. 
Sample 
Predicted Number 
Ground Truth Number 
Relative Error (%) 
The first tomato plant 
7 
6 
16.67 
The second tomato plant 
9 
12 
25.00 
The third tomato plant 
10 
11 
9.09 
The first row of tomato plants 
46 
52 
11.54 
The second row of tomato plants 
39 
44 
11.36 
The third row of tomato plants 
47 
56 
12.50 
Mean 
- 
- 
14.36 
After harvesting, tomato fruits need to be graded, and the fruit volume is an im-
portant evaluation criterion in this process. We estimated the fruit volume based on the 
results obtained from the spherical fitting experiments with the tomato fruits. Specifically, 

Agriculture 2025, 15, 1574 
17 of 25 
 
 
the volume of each fitted sphere was taken as the predicted volume of the corresponding 
tomato fruit, which can be calculated using Equation (10), where r denotes the radius of 
the fitted sphere. Fruits that were omitted during the spherical fitting were excluded from 
the statistics. Since the actual volume of tomato fruits is difficult to measure directly, we 
approximated each fruit as an ellipsoid. A vernier caliper was used to measure the length, 
width, and height of the fruit, and the approximated actual volume was calculated ac-
cordingly. This value was considered the ground truth volume, as given by Equation (11), 
where a, b, and c represent half of the measured length, width, and height of the tomato 
fruit, respectively. 
𝑉𝑝= 4
3 𝜋𝑟3 
(10)
𝑉𝑟= 4
3 𝜋𝑎𝑏𝑐 
(11)
Since each tomato plant bears multiple fruits, to reduce the repetitive work, we con-
ducted the fruit volume estimation experiment on all the tomato fruits from only one se-
lected plant. The experimental results are presented in Table 5. 
Table 5. Comparison between the measured and predicted volumes of the tomato fruits. 
Tomato Fruit Predicted Ra-
dius (mm) 
Predicted 
Volume (cm3) 
Measured 
Length (mm) 
Measured 
Width (mm) 
Measured 
Height (mm) 
Measured 
Volume (cm3) 
Relative Error 
(%) 
1 
23.31 
53.05  
51.9 
49.8 
51.0 
69.01 
23.13 
2 
25.83 
72.19 
56.6 
55.8 
51.7 
85.49 
15.56 
3 
28.70 
99.02 
56.0 
56.9 
53.9 
89.93 
10.11 
4 
26.16 
74.99 
51.8 
49.7 
52.1 
70.23 
6.78 
5 
24.61 
62.43 
52.9 
55.9 
47.8 
74.01 
15.65 
6 
30.50 
118.85 
68.1 
65.1 
57.4 
133.24 
10.80 
7 
28.47 
96.66 
54.8 
60.2 
62.9 
108.65 
11.04 
8 
31.80 
134.70 
66.8 
73.2 
49.4 
126.48 
6.50 
9 
34.53 
172.46 
68.5 
68.8 
54.3 
133.99 
28.71 
Mean 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
14.25 
As shown in Table 5, the average relative error in terms of the tomato fruit volume 
prediction was 14.25%, indicating that the system can estimate the fruit volume with rea-
sonably high accuracy. Since tomato fruits are irregularly shaped spheres, some error is 
inevitable during ground truth volume measurement. To mitigate this, multiple measure-
ments were taken and averaged to reduce the variability. During the sphere fitting pro-
cess, outliers and partial occlusions may cause the estimated radius to be larger or smaller 
than the actual value. To address this issue, the parameter Min support points per primi-
tive was adjusted during the experiment to minimize the impact of such errors. 
3.4. Localization Accuracy Experiment 
The SLAM system performs localization by estimating the camera pose through the 
tracking thread and detecting loop closures via the loop detection thread. The accuracy of 
the system’s localization directly affects the quality of the constructed 3D map, which in 
turn influences the accuracy of the phenotypic trait prediction for tomato plants. To ad-
dress various challenges encountered in agricultural scenarios, we selected two datasets 
from distinct environments to evaluate the localization accuracy of the proposed system. 
Since data collection by an unmanned vehicle in farmland inevitably encounters occlu-
sions caused by leaves, the first dataset used was the publicly available Rgbd_kidnap da-
taset, which includes a period of intentional occlusion during recording to simulate 

Agriculture 2025, 15, 1574 
18 of 25 
 
 
camera obstruction by leaves in real-world scenarios. The second dataset was collected in 
the field by our team, featuring an actual trajectory with loop closures. During the exper-
iment, we used RTK positioning to obtain the ground truth trajectory. 
For the quantitative evaluation of the experimental results, we employed the ATE 
and RMSE. The ATE represents the absolute difference between the ground truth trajec-
tory and the predicted trajectory, which can be expressed by Equation (12). Here, 𝐹𝑖 de-
notes the absolute trajectory error at the i-th time step, 𝑄𝑖 is the ground truth pose at the 
i-th time step, 𝑃𝑖 is the system’s predicted pose at the i-th time step, and S is the transfor-
mation matrix between 𝑃𝑖 and 𝑄𝑖. The function 𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑠(𝑋) extracts the translational com-
ponent of X, and n represents the total number of frames used for the trajectory evalua-
tion. Since an ATE value is computed for each time step, we used the mATE, which is the 
average of ATE values across all the time steps, to quantitatively assess the predicted tra-
jectory. 
𝐹𝑖= 𝑄𝑖
−1𝑆𝑃𝑖 
𝐴𝑇𝐸(𝑖) = √1
𝑛‖𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑠(𝐹𝑖)‖ 
(12)
Additionally, we employed the RMSE of the ATE to quantify the deviation of the 
predicted trajectory. the RMSE is sensitive to outliers in the predicted trajectory and can 
be calculated using Equation (13). 
𝑅𝑀𝑆𝐸= √1
𝑛∑(𝑄𝑖−𝑃𝑖)2
𝑛
𝑖=1
 
(13)
Since the semantic segmentation module does not affect the system’s localization ac-
curacy, we conducted localization accuracy experiments using ORB-SLAM3 and ORB-
SLAM2. The experimental results are presented in Table 6, where Std denotes the standard 
deviation of the ATE. 
Table 6. Localization accuracy experiment results. RMSE represents the root mean square error of 
the ATE, mATE denotes the mean value of the ATE, and Std refers to the standard deviation. 
Module 
Rgbd_kidnap Dataset 
Real-World Dataset 
 
mATE(m) 
RMSE(m) 
Std 
mATE (m) RMSE(m) 
Std 
ORB-
SLAM2 
0.09 
0.10 
0.04 
0.45 
0.49 
0.19 
ORB-
SLAM3 
0.17 
0.37 
0.33 
0.16 
0.21 
0.11 
The predicted trajectories under occlusion conditions using the public dataset are 
shown in Figure 11. As illustrated in Figure 11, both systems lost tracking due to inten-
tional occlusion. However, after the occlusion was removed, both systems quickly relo-
calized and resumed trajectory prediction. Compared with ORB-SLAM2, the ORB-
SLAM3 system was able to redetect loop closures more rapidly after occlusion recovery. 
Analysis of Table 6 shows that the ATE and RMSE of the trajectories predicted by ORB-
SLAM2 are lower than those of ORB-SLAM3. This is because the trajectory evaluation tool 
evo only compares the aligned portions of the predicted and ground truth trajectories 
based on the timestamps. Any unaligned or missing segments in the predicted trajectory 
are excluded from the evaluation. As a result, ORB-SLAM2 appears to achieve better per-
formance in terms of the evo-based statistical metrics. 

Agriculture 2025, 15, 1574 
19 of 25 
 
 
 
Figure 11. Experimental results on the Rgbd_kidnap public dataset. 
Figure 12 presents the line chart of the ATE between the predicted trajectory and the 
ground truth at each time interval for both systems. As shown in the figure, the ATE for 
both systems increases significantly during the occlusion period. The predicted trajectory 
from ORB-SLAM3 exhibits a larger Std, but the ATE shows relatively small fluctuations 
outside the occlusion period, indicating stable prediction performance. To visually 
demonstrate the deviation between the predicted and ground truth trajectories, Figure 13 
shows the deviation heatmaps of both systems on the Rgbd_kidnap public dataset. 
 
Figure 12. The ATE variation over time on the Rgbd_kidnap public dataset. The gray line represents 
the ATE curve over time; the orange line indicates the mean ATE; the green line represents the me-
dian ATE; the red line denotes the RMSE of the ATE; and the purple shaded area indicates the stand-
ard deviation of the ATE. 

Agriculture 2025, 15, 1574 
20 of 25 
 
 
 
Figure 13. Trajectory deviation heatmaps on the Rgbd_kidnap public dataset. 
Analysis of Table 6 and Figure 14 shows that both systems are capable of correctly 
recognizing loop closures in scenarios with looping paths. The mATE and RMSE values 
of ORB-SLAM3 were 0.16 m and 0.21 m, respectively, which are 0.29 m and 0.28 m lower 
than those of ORB-SLAM2. This demonstrates that ORB-SLAM3 achieves more accurate 
trajectory predictions than ORB-SLAM2 in standard field environments. In large-scale 
farmland scenarios, the accumulated drift errors can significantly affect the system per-
formance. The loop closure thread plays a critical role in detecting such loops and correct-
ing the accumulated errors. During the experiments, ORB-SLAM3 produced significantly 
better optimized trajectories after loop closure than ORB-SLAM2. These results indicate 
that ORB-SLAM3 offers higher robustness and can effectively reduce the risk of collisions 
or crop damage during real-world operation. 
 
Figure 14. Experimental results on the field dataset. 
Figure 15 illustrates the ATE curves of the predicted trajectories for both systems on 
the field dataset. As shown in the figure, ORB-SLAM3 maintained a more stable ATE 
curve throughout the operation, with significantly lower error magnitudes compared to 
ORB-SLAM2. The mean, median, RMSE, and Std of the trajectory errors were all smaller 
for ORB-SLAM3, indicating higher accuracy and stability in its pose estimation. These 
results suggest that ORB-SLAM3 exhibits greater robustness to noise during trajectory 
prediction and demonstrates overall superior performance compared to ORB-SLAM2. 

Agriculture 2025, 15, 1574 
21 of 25 
 
 
Furthermore, Figure 16 presents deviation heatmaps that visually depict the differences 
between the predicted and ground truth trajectories for both systems. 
 
Figure 15. ATE variation over time on the field dataset. 
 
Figure 16. Trajectory deviation heatmaps on the field dataset. 
4. Conclusions 
This study proposes an ORB-SLAM3 system integrated with the lightweight seman-
tic segmentation network BiSeNetV2, which is embedded on an unmanned vehicle for 
phenotypic trait acquisition of tomato plants in a greenhouse environment. To validate 
the feasibility of the proposed method, field experiments were conducted in a tomato cul-
tivation base. The integration of BiSeNetV2 enables real-time semantic point cloud recon-
struction, achieving a segmentation accuracy of 95.37% mIoU and a processing speed of 
61.98 FPS on the tomato dataset. Outlier points in the point cloud were removed using a 
combination of pass-through and statistical filtering, and the processed data were stored 
using OctoMap, resulting in an average storage space reduction of 96.70%. Analysis of the 
point cloud allowed extraction of the plant height, canopy width, and plant volume, with 
relative errors of 3.86%, 14.34%, and 27.14%, respectively, compared to the ground truth 
measurements. The number and size of the tomato fruits were estimated via spherical 
fitting, yielding relative errors of 14.36% and 14.25%, respectively. In practical greenhouse 
scenarios, the system demonstrated robust localization performance, achieving an mATE 
of 0.16 m and an RMSE of 0.21 m on the field dataset. 

Agriculture 2025, 15, 1574 
22 of 25 
 
 
Although the proposed system has achieved promising results in acquiring pheno-
typic traits of tomato plants, several limitations remain. Since the system relies on an RGB-
D camera for data acquisition, it is sensitive to lighting variations—strong illumination or 
shadowed regions can introduce depth errors, thereby reducing the accuracy of the point 
cloud. In real-world operating environments, issues such as leaf overlap and fruit occlu-
sion may occur, leading to incomplete semantic segmentation. These segmentation gaps 
can subsequently result in inaccuracies in the phenotypic parameter estimation. 
Future work will explore the application prospects of the system across various other 
greenhouse fruits and vegetables to evaluate its generalizability. Meanwhile, efforts will 
be made to optimize the methods for acquiring accurate ground truth values for plant 
phenotypic traits. 
Author Contributions: Writing—original draft preparation, P.W.; conceptualization, Y.H.; method-
ology, J.Z.; visualization, J.L.; supervision, R.C.; resources, X.Z. All authors have read and agreed to 
the published version of the manuscript. 
Funding: This research was funded by the Science and Technology Innovation Project Fund of 
North China Institute of Aerospace Engineering, No. YKY-2024-81. 
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable. 
Data Availability Statement: The raw data supporting the conclusions of this article will be made 
available by the authors upon request. 
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
Appendix A 
1. 
Improved ORB-SLAM3 system 
Algorithm A1 Pipeline of the Improved ORB-SLAM3 System 
Input: RGB-D image stream I_t = {I_rgb, I_depth}, camera intrinsics K 
Output: Optimized camera trajectory T, semantic OctoMap M 
1:  Initialize ORB-SLAM3 system with configuration file and RGB-D mode 
2:  Load pretrained semantic segmentation model 
3:  Initialize OctoMap M for semantic point cloud fusion 
4:  while I_t has next frame do 
5:      Acquire RGB-D frame: (I_rgb, I_depth) ← I_t 
6:      Estimate current camera pose T_t ← Tracking(I_rgb, I_depth) 
7:      if IsKeyFrame(I_t) then 
8:          Insert keyframe into local map 
9:          Perform semantic segmentation on RGB image: 
              S_t ← SemanticSegmentor(I_rgb) 
10:         Generate semantic point cloud: 
              P_t ← BackProject(S_t, I_depth, T_t, K) 
11:         Apply two-stage filtering on P_t: 
              (a) Semantic + geometric constraints 
              (b) Statistical or voxel-based denoising 
12:         Integrate filtered point cloud into OctoMap: 
              M ← M ∪ P_t 
13:     end if 
14:     if LocalMapping is active then 
15:         Run local bundle adjustment and map optimization 
16:     end if 
17:     if LoopClosing is triggered then 
18:         Detect loop closure 

Agriculture 2025, 15, 1574 
23 of 25 
 
 
19:         if Loop is confirmed then 
20:             Perform pose graph optimization 
21:         end if 
22:     end if 
23:     Update visualization with trajectory and semantic map 
24:  end while 
25:  Save final trajectory T 
26:  Save semantic OctoMap M to disk 
2. 
OctoMap Building Method 
Algorithm A2 OctoMap Construction Algorithm 
Input: Semantic point cloud P = {p_i = (x_i, y_i, z_i, c_i)}, 
      corresponding sensor pose T, 
      occupancy octree O (resolution r) 
Output: Updated semantic occupancy map O 
1:  for each point p_i ∈ P do 
2:      Transform point to world coordinates: 
            p_i_world ← T ⊕ p_i 
3:      Compute 3D ray from sensor origin to p_i_world 
4:      for each voxel v_j along the ray (excluding endpoint) do 
5:          Update occupancy of v_j as free space in octree O 
6:      end for 
7:      Find leaf node v_i corresponding to p_i_world 
8:      Update occupancy of v_i as occupied in octree O 
9:      Update semantic label of v_i using Bayesian fusion: 
            label(v_i) ← Fuse(label(v_i), c_i) 
10:  end for 
References 
1. 
Sampaio, G.S.; Silva, L.A.; Marengoni, M. 3D reconstruction of non-rigid plants and sensor data fusion for agriculture pheno-
typing. Sensors 2021, 21, 4115. 
2. 
Zahid, A.; Mahmud, M.; He, L.; Heinemann, P.; Choi, D.; Schupp, J. Technological advancements towards developing a robotic 
pruner for apple trees: A review. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2021, 189, 106383. 
3. 
Krul, S.; Pantos, C.; Frangulea, M.; Valente, J. Visual SLAM for indoor livestock and farming using a small drone with a monoc-
ular camera: A feasibility study. Drones 2021, 5, 41. 
4. 
Ma, X.; Wei, B.; Guan, H.; Yu, S. A method of calculating phenotypic traits for soybean canopies based on three-dimensional 
point cloud. Ecol. Inform. 2022, 68, 101524. 
5. 
Liu, F.; Hu, P.; Zheng, B.; Duan, T.; Zhu, B.; Guo, Y. A field-based high-throughput method for acquiring canopy architecture 
using unmanned aerial vehicle images. Agric. For. Meteorol. 2021, 296, 108231. 
6. 
Rossi, R.; Costafreda-Aumedes, S.; Leolini, L.; Leolini, C.; Bindi, M.; Moriondo, M. Implementation of an algorithm for auto-
mated phenotyping through plant 3D-modeling: A practical application on the early detection of water stress. Comput. Electron. 
Agric. 2022, 197, 106937. 
7. 
Wu, D.; Yu, L.; Ye, J.; Zhai, R.; Duan, L.; Liu, L.; Wu, N.; Geng, Z.; Fu, J.; Huang, C.; et al. Panicle-3D: A low-cost 3D-modeling 
method for rice panicles based on deep learning, shape from silhouette, and supervoxel clustering. Crop J. 2022, 10, 1386–1398. 
8. 
Shu, F.; Lesur, P.; Xie, Y.; Pagani, A.; Stricker, D. SLAM in the field: An evaluation of monocular mapping and localization on 
challenging dynamic agricultural environment. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Winter Conference on Applications of Com-
puter Vision, Waikoloa, HI, USA, 3–8 January 2021. 
9. 
Malambo, L.; Popescu, S.; Murray, S.; Putman, E.; Pugh, N.; Horne, D.; Richardson, G.; Sheridan, R.; Rooney, W.; Avant, R. et 
al. Multitemporal field-based plant height estimation using 3D point clouds generated from small unmanned aerial systems 
high-resolution imagery. Int. J. Appl. Earth Obs. Geoinf. 2018, 64, 31–42. 
10. 
Yin, X.; Noguchi, N.; Choi, J. Development of a target recognition and following system for a field robot. Comput. Electron. Agric. 
2013, 98, 17–24. 

Agriculture 2025, 15, 1574 
24 of 25 
 
 
11. 
Bao, Y.; Tang, L.; Breitzman, M.; Fernandez, M.; Schnable, P. Field-based robotic phenotyping of sorghum plant architecture 
using stereo vision. J. Field Robot. 2019, 36, 397–415. 
12. 
Van Henten, E.J.; Hemming, J.; Tuijl, B.A.J.; Kornet, J.G.;  Meuleman, J.; Bontsema, J.; Os, E.A. An autonomous robot for har-
vesting cucumbers in greenhouses. Auton. Robot. 2002, 13, 241–258. 
13. 
Zhu, F.; Thapa, S.; Gao, T.; Ge, Y.; Walia, H.; Yu, H. 3D reconstruction of plant leaves for high-throughput phenotyping. In 
Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE International Conference on Big Data (Big Data), Seattle, WA, USA, 10–13 December 2018; IEEE: 
New York, NY, USA, 2018. 
14. 
Liu, J.; Xu, X.; Liu, Y.; Rao, Z.; Smith, M.; Jin, L.; Li, B. Quantitative potato tuber phenotyping by 3D imaging. Biosyst. Eng. 2021, 
210, 48–59. 
15. 
Shi, Y.; Wang, N.; Taylor, R.K.; Raun, W.R. Improvement of a ground-LiDAR-based corn plant population and spacing meas-
urement system. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2015, 112, 92–101. 
16. 
Marinello, F.; Pezzuolo, A.; Donato, C.; Sartori, L. Kinect 3D reconstruction for quantification of grape bunches volume and 
mass. Eng. Rural Dev. 2016, 15, 876–881. 
17. 
Thapa, S.; Zhu, F.; Walia, H.; Yu, H.; Ge, Y. A novel LiDAR-based instrument for high-throughput, 3D measurement of mor-
phological traits in maize and sorghum. Sensors 2018, 18, 1187. 
18. 
Fan, Y.; Feng, Z.; Mannan, A.; Khan, T.; Shen, C.; Saeed, S. Estimating tree position, diameter at breast height, and tree height 
in real-time using a mobile phone with RGB-D SLAM. Remote Sens. 2018, 10, 1845. 
19. 
Dong, W.; Roy, P.; Isler, V. Semantic mapping for orchard environments by merging two-sides reconstructions of tree rows. J. 
Field Robot. 2020, 37, 97–121. 
20. 
Pierzchała, M.; Giguère, P.; Astrup, R. Mapping forests using an unmanned ground vehicle with 3D LiDAR and graph-SLAM. 
Comput. Electron. Agric. 2018, 145, 217–225. 
21. 
Kim, K.; Deb, A.; Cappelleri, D.J. P-AgSLAM: In-Row and Under-Canopy SLAM for Agricultural Monitoring in Cornfields. 
IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett. 2024, 9, 4982–4989. 
22. 
Lobefaro, L.; Malladi, M.; Vysotska, O.; Guadagnino, T.; Stachniss, C. Estimating 4D Data Associations Towards Spatial-Tem-
poral Mapping of Growing Plants for Agricultural Robots. In Proceedings of the 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on 
Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), Detroit, MI, USA, 1–5 October 2023; IEEE: New York, NY, USA, 2023. 
23. 
Nellithimaru, A.K.; Kantor, G.A. Rols: Robust object-level slam for grape counting. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference 
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Workshops, Long Beach, CA, USA, 16–17 June 2019. 
24. 
Fan, Z.; Sun, N.; Qiu, Q.; Li, T.; Feng, Q.; Zhao, C. In situ measuring stem diameters of maize crops with a high-throughput 
phenotyping robot. Remote Sens. 2022, 14, 1030. 
25. 
Wang, J.-Y.; Lin, T.-T. Application of a visual-based autonomous drone system for greenhouse muskmelon phenotyping. In 
Proceedings of the 2023 ASABE Annual International Meeting, Omaha, NE, USA, 9–12 July 2023; American Society of Agricul-
tural and Biological Engineers: St. Joseph, MI, USA, 2023. 
26. 
Islam, R.; Habibullah, H.; Hossain, T. AGRI-SLAM: A real-time stereo visual SLAM for agricultural environment. Auton. Robot. 
2023, 47, 649–668. 
27. 
Tang, B.; Guo, Z.; Huang, C.; Huai, S.; Gai, J. A fruit-tree mapping system for semi-structured orchards based on multi-sensor-
fusion SLAM. IEEE Access 2024, 12, 162122–162130. 
28. 
Xiong, J.; Liang, J.; Zhuang, Y.; Hong, D.; Zheng, Z.; Liao, S.; Hu, W.; Yang, Z. Real-time localization and 3D semantic map 
reconstruction for unstructured citrus orchards. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2023, 213, 108217. 
29. 
Liu, X.; Chen, S.; Liu, C.; Shivakumar, S.; Das, J.; Taylor, C. Monocular camera based fruit counting and mapping with semantic 
data association. IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett. 2019, 4, 2296–2303. 
30. 
Yuan, Q.; Wang, P.; Luo, W.; Zhou, Y.; Chen, H.; Meng, Z. Simultaneous Localization and Mapping System for Agricultural 
Yield Estimation Based on Improved VINS-RGBD: A Case Study of a Strawberry Field. Agriculture 2024, 14, 784. 
31. 
Giang, T.T.H.; Ryoo, Y.-J. Pruning points detection of sweet pepper plants using 3D point clouds and semantic segmentation 
neural network. Sensors 2023, 23, 4040. 
32. 
Liu, T.; Chopra, N.; Samtani, J. Information system for detecting strawberry fruit locations and ripeness conditions in a farm. 
Biol. Life Sci. Forum 2022, 16, 22. 
33. 
Xie, X.; Yan, Z.; Zhang, Z.; Qin, Y.; Jin, H.; Zhang, C.; Xu, M. Construction of Three-Dimensional Semantic Maps of Unstructured 
Lawn Scenes Based on Deep Learning. Appl. Sci. 2024, 14, 4884. 
34. 
Pan, Y.; Hu, K.; Cao, H.; Kang, H.; Wang, X. A novel perception and semantic mapping method for robot autonomy in orchards. 
Comput. Electron. Agric. 2024, 219, 108769. 

Agriculture 2025, 15, 1574 
25 of 25 
 
 
35. 
Che, Y.; Wang, Q.; Xie, Z.; Zhou, L.; Li, S.; Hui, F.; Wang, X.; Li, B.; Ma, Y. Estimation of maize plant height and leaf area index 
dynamics using an unmanned aerial vehicle with oblique and nadir photography. Ann. Bot. 2020, 126, 765–773. 
36. 
Cheng, M.; Jiao, X.; Liu, Y.; Shao, M.; Yu, X.; Bai, Y.; Wang, Z.; Wang, S.; Tuohuti, N.; Liu, S.; et al. Estimation of soil moisture 
content under high maize canopy coverage from UAV multimodal data and machine learning. Agric. Water Manag. 2022, 264, 
107530. 
37. 
Sun, G.; Wang, X.; Ding, Y.; Lu, W.; Sun, Y. Remote measurement of apple orchard canopy information using unmanned aerial 
vehicle photogrammetry. Agronomy 2019, 9, 774. 
38. 
Sarron, J.; Malézieux, É.; Sané, C.; Faye, É. Mango yield mapping at the orchard scale based on tree structure and land cover 
assessed by UAV. Remote Sens. 2018, 10, 1900. 
39. 
Siebers, M.H.; Edwards, E.J.; Jimenez-Berni, J.A.; Thomas, M.R.; Salim, M.; Walker, R.R. Fast phenomics in vineyards: Develop-
ment of GRover, the grapevine rover, and LiDAR for assessing grapevine traits in the field. Sensors 2018, 18, 2924. 
40. 
Qiu, Q.; Sun, N.; Bai, H.; Wang, N.; Fan, Z.; Wang, Y.; Meng, Z.; Li, B.; Cong, Y. Field-based high-throughput phenotyping for 
maize plant using 3D LiDAR point cloud generated with a Phenomobile. Front. Plant Sci. 2019, 10, 554. 
41. 
Wang, P.; Luo, W.; Liu, J.; Zhou, Y.; Li, X.; Zhao, S.; Zhang, G.; Zhao, Y. Real-time semantic SLAM-based 3D reconstruction 
robot for greenhouse vegetables. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2025, 237, 110582. 
42. 
Nguyen, P.; Badenhorst, P.E.; Shi, F.; Spangenberg, G.C.; Smith, K.F.; Daetwyler, H.D. Design of an unmanned ground vehicle 
and LiDAR pipeline for the high-throughput phenotyping of biomass in perennial ryegrass. Remote Sens. 2020, 13, 20. 
43. 
Qi, H.; Wang, C.; Li, J.; Shi, L. Loop closure detection with CNN in RGB-D SLAM for intelligent agricultural equipment. Agri-
culture 2024, 14, 949. 
44. 
Ma, Z.; Yang, S.; Li, J.; Qi, J. Research on slam localization algorithm for orchard dynamic vision based on YOLOD-SLAM2. 
Agriculture 2024, 14, 1622. 
45. 
Li, G.; Liu, Z.; Ling, H. ICNet: Information conversion network for RGB-D based salient object detection. IEEE Trans. Image 
Process. 2020, 29, 4873–4884. 
46. 
Zhao, H.; Shi, J.; Qi, X.; Wang, X.; Jia, J. Pyramid scene parsing network. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer 
Vision and Pattern Recognition, Honolulu, HI, USA, 21–26 July 2017. 
47. 
Xie, E.; Wang, W.; Yu, Z.; Anandkumar, A.; Alvarez, J.M.; Luo, P. SegFormer: Simple and efficient design for semantic segmen-
tation with transformers. Adv. Neural Inf. Process. Syst. 2021, 34, 12077–12090. 
48. 
Chen, L.-C.; Zhu, Y.; Papandreou, G.; Schroff, F.; Adam, H. Encoder-decoder with atrous separable convolution for semantic 
image segmentation. In Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV), Munich, Germany, 8–14 Sep-
tember 2018. 
49. 
Yu, C.; Wang, J.; Peng, C.; Gao, C.; Yu, G.; Sang, N. Bisenet: Bilateral segmentation network for real-time semantic segmentation. 
In Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV), Munich, Germany, 8–14 September 2018. 
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual au-
thor(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to 
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content. 
