KIWIFRUIT COUNTING USING KIWIDETECTOR 
AND KIWITRACKER 
Yi Xia, Minh Nguyen, Wei Qi Yan 
Auckland University of Technology, 1010 Auckland, New Zealand 
Abstract. Efficient fruit detection and counting are crucial to improve fruit 
industrial efficiency and assist the farmers to develop reasonable harvesting 
strategies in advance while significantly reducing human labors and wastage. In 
this paper, digital video and image datasets of kiwifruits are collected to train a 
deep learning-based fruit counting model. The model consists of two molecular 
algorithms: KiwiDetector for kiwifruit detection and KiwiTracker for kiwifruit 
tracking and counting. The KiwiDetector algorithm is based on the state-of-the-
art YOLOv7 algorithm. The KiwiTracker algorithm is from Kalman filtering and 
global matching for target tracking. The KiwiDetector module obtained mAP 
0.937 after model training based on our collected kiwifruit dataset. The 
KiwiTracker module has an average counting precision 0.802 after model testing 
based on different videos containing kiwifruits. The methods can assist us in 
estimating yields efficiently and provide technical references for agricultural 
automation. 
Keywords: Multiple object tracking, kiwifruit detection, kiwifruit counting. 
1 
Introduction 
The field of artificial intelligence and deep learning is advancing rapidly and has 
significant potentials to provide reliable technological support for smart agriculture 
[32] [38]. One critical aspect of intelligent agriculture is the collection of crop 
information, which necessitates precise and resilient yield estimation models [5] [10] 
[27]. Accurately estimating crop yield can provide kiwifruit farmers with essential data 
to optimize their harvest schedules, reduce labor costs, and inform decisions related to 
fruit pricing and orchard revenue forecasting [23]. 
Accurate and rapid kiwifruit detection and counting are essential for predicting 
kiwifruit yields [8] [16]. In traditional fruit image detection systems, visual features 
such as texture, color and shape are usually extracted and recognized [15]. In most of 
visual recognition tasks, the images used in the experiments are often captured in a 
strictly limited environment while eliminating the external environmental influence on 
the image [12]. However, in real-world environments, images are susceptible to light 
changes, fruit reflections and occlusions, which affect the recognition accuracy of fruit 
images to varying degrees, so fruit feature extraction algorithms based on artificial 
features are not robust enough [17]. 
However, with the rapid development of deep learning, a great deal of fruit detection 
recognition and localization algorithms have been proposed [6] [18]. These methods 
have better performance, generalization ability, and adaptability in real scenarios. The 

most prominent algorithms are one-stage object detection algorithms such as YOLO 
family [14] [35] and two-stage object detection algorithms [17] such as R-CNN [11], 
Fast R-CNN, and Faster R-CNN [7] [13].  
Visual object tracking is another important part of achieving kiwifruit counting [6]. 
MOT (Multiple Object Tracking) has been widely applied to computer vision and 
received significant attention from both academia and industry [1] [2]. However, MOT 
task faces challenges such as appearance changes of the same object in different frames, 
object occlusion, and varying object numbers. Traditional MOT methods rely mainly 
on hand-crafted features and target tracking algorithms, which suffer from poor 
accuracy and generalization. In recent years, the rapid development of deep learning 
has brought new breakthroughs to MOT. Deep learning-based MOT methods can take 
use of the automatically learned features to improve tracking accuracy and 
generalization. Therefore, many new deep learning-based MOT methods have been 
proposed and achieved good results in practical applications [10]. Most of the current 
mainstream multitarget tracking models are based on deep learning, such as SORT 
algorithm [3] and a series of improved algorithms [26]. The main contributions of this 
paper are summarized as follows:  
⚫ 
We propose a deep learning method for kiwifruit detection, a machine learning 
model for kiwifruit tracking and counting. 
⚫ 
Our proposed models achieve better performance compared to the state-of-the-art 
object detection and object tracking models. 
⚫ 
We created a dataset of labelled kiwifruit images that could be employed for deep 
learning model training. 
2 
Our Methods 
To the best of our knowledge, there are currently no labelled open-source image 
datasets available for training kiwifruit detection. Thus, we downloaded images and 
videos of real kiwifruits from the internet and split the videos into frames. In total, we 
collected 1,500 images as the original dataset. We augmented digital images to improve 
the training speed of the model. Later, we labelled the image dataset by using the 
software tools Roboflow and Auto-Orient so that we can label the image dataset. In 
addition, we resized the original images to 640 × 640 pixels in the Roboflow tool to 
resolve the inability due to the differences in original images. 
Image augmentation improves model performance significantly [31]. Deep learning 
models are sensitive to visual features of the detected objects and may incorrectly detect 
the same object if it is mirrored or flipped on the given images. Kiwifruits can appear 
with different orientations and scales within a given image, making it difficult for the 
model to detect and count them accurately. Thus, in this paper, we augment the dataset 
using geometric transformations to avoid overfitting and non-convergence. As shown 
in Fig. 1, image enhancement mainly consists of random horizontal flipping and 
random vertical flipping. Random horizontal flipping refers to flip the image with the 
vertical line at its center. Random vertical flipping shows flipping the image centered 
on the horizontal center line. Through these methods, the original image dataset was 
augmented to 1,885 images. We split the augmented dataset into a training dataset, a 

verification dataset, and a test dataset having 1,516 images, 246 images, and 123 
images, respectively. 
 
    
    
 
 
(a) Original image                                (b) Mirrored image                                (c) flipped image 
Fig. 1. The examples of original image and augmented images. 
2.1 
Overview of the Proposed Methodology  
In this paper, we propose a kiwifruit counting model combining YOLOv7 [24] and 
DeepSort algorithm for solving this challenging problem of kiwifruit yield prediction 
in real orchards. The structure of the model is shown in Figure 2. We train the 
KiwiDetector module with the preprocessed kiwifruit images and feed the output 
bounding box and feature map into the KiwiTracker module to track the kiwifruits in a 
video and output the total number of kiwifruits detected. 
 
2.2 
KiwiDetector Module based on YOLOv7 Algorithm 
Kiwifruit detection and counting require an accurate detection model [20]. Finding all 
the features of interest in given images, as well as their classes and positions, is the goal 
of visual object detection [34]. Because kiwifruit images have various appearances, 
shapes, and poses, as well as numerous elements such as lighting and occlusion can 
interfere the imaging, the object detection has historically been one of the most difficult 
challenges in the field of computer vision [29]. There are two types of deep learning-
based object detection algorithms: Two-stage algorithms and one-stage methods. The 
two-stage algorithms firstly extract the object features to generate a Region Proposal 
Network and then detect the objects by using convolutional neural network [36]. 
Typical two-stage object detection algorithms include R-CNN, SPP-Net [9], Fast R-
CNN, Faster R-CNN, and R-FCN. One-stage algorithms do not require the generation 
of a Region Proposal Network (FPN) and extract features directly in the network to 
predict visual object classification and location, this leads to faster detection speed [22]. 
OverFeat, YOLO family [21], SSD, and RetinaNet are examples of conventional one-
stage target detection algorithms [37]. YOLOv7 is a popular visual object detection 
model in YOLO family [28]. 
In this paper, we proffered YOLOv7 as the feature extraction algorithm to improve 
the performance of the model in videos with smaller kiwifruit objects and complex 
backgrounds. In this paper, we name this module as KiwiDetector. Figure 2 shows the 
structure of KiwiDetector module based on YOLOv7 algorithm. The algorithm consists 
of three main parts: Input, Backbone and Head. The input layer takes use of the 

following tricks: Mosaic data augmentation, adaptive anchor frame calculation and 
adaptive image scaling, while mosaic data augmentation is use of four images, 
randomly scaled, randomly cropped and arranged to stitch together to solve the problem 
of small target detection. In the model training, the deep net outputs a predicted frame 
based on initial anchor frame, which is then compared with the ground truth (GT) to 
calculate the differences between the two, and then updated in reverse to iterate over 
the network parameters [19]. In YOLOv3 and YOLOv4 [4], while training different 
datasets, the calculation of the initial anchor frame is run through another program.  
In this paper, YOLOv7 algorithm is improved based on adaptive image scaling. 
Since different images have distinct aspect ratios, the scaled padding results in different 
black border sizes at each end, if more padding is conducted, there is information 
redundancy that affects inference speed, so the original image is adaptively to add the 
minimum number of black edges to improve the inference speed. The Backbone layer 
adopts mainly ELAN and MP structures, which allows deeper networks to be trained 
and converged efficiently by controlling the shortest and longest gradient paths. The 
MP structure encapsulates both max pooling and convolutions. The backbone layer 
consists of CBSConv, E-ELAN, and MPConv layers that alternately halve the aspect 
and multiply the channels to extract features. In contrast to the previous YOLO 
algorithm, the KiwiDetector module based on YOLOv7 in this paper integrates the 
Neck layer and the Head layer. The SPPCSPC module consists of an SPP and a CSP 
module, where the SPP is employed to increase the receptive field and adapt the 
algorithm to different resolution images, which is offered to obtain receptive fields 
throughout max pooling. The two parts are finally combined to reduce the module 
parameters and increase the accuracy.  
The workflow of the Head layer is that after output three feature maps as shown in 
Figure 1, three unprocessed predictions of different sizes are output through three REP 
and Conv layers, respectively. 
 
 
Fig. 2. The architecture of kiwifruit counting model. 
 
2.3 
KiwiTracker module based on Multiple Object Tracking 
In this paper, a visual object tracking model based on deep learning object detection 
combined with Kalman filter and Hungarian algorithm is proposed to implement 
automatic counting of kiwifruits from digital videos [10]. In order to ensure the real-
time accuracy of kiwifruit detection and tracking algorithm, the trained KiwiDetector 
model is put forward for kiwifruit detection with an accurate bounding box and feature 
map [25]. The Kalman filter algorithm-based predictive tracking of targets. Hungarian 
algorithm is improved to match targets based on Euclidean distance and Intersection 
over Union (IoU) to reduce ID duplication and improve kiwifruit counting accuracy. 

Figure 4 shows the flowchart of KiwiTracker module in this paper. This algorithm 
mainly consists of following steps: (1) Detecting the kiwifruits by using the trained 
KiwiDetector module and get the bounding box and feature map; (2) Predicting the 
target: The Kalman filter algorithm is proposed to predict the position and motion of 
the target in the next frame of the video. (3) Matching targets by using the Hungarian 
algorithm to optimally match targets between the two frames before and after obtained 
the trajectories of the targets in the video. The target trajectory that fails to match will 
be temporarily saved and continue to participate in the prediction matching of 
subsequent frames until the target fails to match for 30 consecutive frames and then is 
regarded as a fruit and the trajectory is deleted. If the match is successful, the prediction 
and the counting results are output through the counter. If the current frame is not the 
last one, the parameters are updated and the object detection step is repeated until the 
last frame of the current video. 
 
2.4 
Experimental evaluation metrics 
Evaluation of KiwiDetector. In the kiwifruit detection module proposed in this paper, 
we take consideration of Precision, Recall and Mean Average Precision (mAP) to 
evaluate the performance of the proposed models obtained from trained KiwiDetector, 
where mAP is calculated if the IoU is set to 0.5 and at different IoU thresholds (0.5 to 
0.95, in steps of 0.05), respectively. The calculation is shown below, where TP, TN, 
FP, and FN denote the combination of true and predicted categories, and the different 
predicted results are explained in Table 1, respectively [30]. Higher values of the 
evaluation metrics indicate better model performance. 
𝑃=
𝑇𝑃
𝑇𝑃+ 𝐹𝑃                                                     (1) 
𝑅=
𝑇𝑃
𝑇𝑃+ 𝐹𝑁                                                      (2) 
𝑚𝐴𝑃= 1
𝑁∑∫𝑃𝑑𝑅
1
0
𝑁
𝑖=1
                                         (3) 
ACP =
∑(1 −|M −G|
G
)
n
1
n
                                     (4) 
Evaluation of KiwiTracker. In this paper, in order to determine the counting accuracy 
of KiwiTracker, our experimental results were compared to manually counting results 
to determine the reliability of the KiwiTracker module. The actual number of fruits in 
the video (ground truth) was firstly obtained by counting each of the 10 videos 
containing kiwifruits. During the counting process, we firstly recorded the number of 
kiwifruits in the first frame, and then wrote down the number of new kiwifruits in 
subsequent frames. The total number of kiwifruits in the video was obtained by firstly 
recording the number of kiwifruits in the first frame and then the number of new 
kiwifruits in subsequent frames until the end of this video. The total number of 
kiwifruits in the video is then obtained, which enables the counting of kiwifruit in the 
video is possible. Then, the number of kiwifruits in the video is compared with the 

result from the human counting result. The accuracy of the kiwifruit counting is verified 
by comparing the results with the ground truth. 
In this paper, we employ the Average Counting Precision (ACP) to assess the 
counting accuracy of the KiwiTracker algorithm, as illustrated in eq. (4). Specifically, 
the variables M and G in eq. (4) represent the number of algorithmic and manual counts, 
respectively, captured from n videos. 
 
Fig. 3. The structure of dataset and KiwiDetector network. 

 
Fig. 4. The flowchart of KiwiTracker for kiwifruits tracking and counting. 
3 
Results and Discussion 
The experiments in this paper were run in a Google Colab notebook with Python 
version 3.8.16, Pytorch version 1.13.0, and CUDA Version: 11.2. In addition, the GPU 
for model training was a Colab-supplied Tesla T4 with 16G memory. 
 
3.1 
Results of kiwifruit detection  
In our experiments with the KiwiDetector module, we have verified the performance 
of KiwiDetector by comparing three algorithms YOLOv4, YOLOv5, and YOLOv6. 
The verification results are shown in Table 2. KiwiDetector module shows the best 
performance in the four evaluation indicators. The results demonstrate that the 

KiwiDetector module in this experiment can provide reliable bounding box and feature 
maps to KiwiTracker.  
    Figure 5 shows the comparison between the labelled test dataset and the test set 
predicted by the model. The unmarked kiwifruits in the bottom right corner of Figure 
5 (a) are correctly marked by the model in the predicted results. In addition, there are 
very few missed or incorrect detections in Figure 5 (b). This result demonstrates the 
ability of the trained KiwiDetector module to detect kiwifruits with a high accuracy. 
 
 
(a) Examples of the labelled test dataset. 
 
 
(b) Examples of the prediction test dataset. 
Fig. 5. Examples of comparison between predicted results and labelled test dataset. 

3.2 
Results of kiwifruit counting  
Figure 6 shows the performance of KiwiTracker module during counting the static 
kiwifruits in our collected videos. Figure 6 (a) displays an example of kiwifruit counting 
in a real orchard video. The top-left corner of the video shows the total number of 
kiwifruits from the first frame to the current frame, with each labelled kiwifruit being 
assigned a corresponding ID by the model. Figure 6 (b) shows an example of dynamic 
kiwifruit counting in a video of kiwifruit sorting conveyor. In this experiment to 
validate the performance of the KiwiTracker model, we manually counted the number 
of visible kiwifruits in 10 different videos as the ground truth (GT). Table 3 shows the 
comparison of our proposed model with Ground Truth in ten videos. We see that our 
proposed kiwifruit counting model performed well. The main reason for this outcome 
is that the model counts kiwifruits repeatedly. The final average counting precision of 
our proposed model is 0.802, and this result can provide reliable technical support for 
estimating kiwifruit yield. 
 
 
(a) An example of kiwifruit counting in orchard video. 
 
 
(b) An example of kiwifruit counting in the conveyor belt. 
Fig. 6. An example of kiwifruit detection in the video which shows the total number at the top-
left corner of this video frame. 
 

4 
Conclusion and Future Work 
In this paper, we proposed a deep learning-based model for detecting and displaying 
kiwifruit quantities. The model has two sub-modules, which are named as KiwiDetector 
and KiwiTracker. The KiwiDetector makes use of YOLOv7 algorithm based on the 
iwifruit dataset. After 150 training epochs, KiwiDetector module obtains a mAP@0.5 
of 0.937 and a mAP@0.5:0.95 of 0.622. The KiwiDetector module shows the bounding 
box and feature maps of kiwifruits in each frame were input to KiwiTracker module to 
obtain the results. The KiwiTracker module predicts kiwifruits based on Kalman filter 
and measures the similarity of kiwifruit in the predicted results based on Euclidean 
distance and IoU. Finally, the model rejects kiwifruits that disappear in 30 consecutive 
frames by using Hungarian algorithm, outputs a kiwifruit with an ID that displays the 
final outcome after counting. Compared to the results obtained by KiwiTracker with 
the number of kiwifruits counted manually in the ten videos, the average counting 
precision of the module was obtained as 0.802. The results of this paper demonstrate 
the effectiveness of our proposed method. 
Table 1. Comparisons of different detection models. 
Model 
Precision Recall mAP@0.5 mAP@0.95 
YOLOv4 
0.881 
0.843 
0.904 
0.531 
YOLOv5 
0.902 
0.851 
0.913 
0.585 
YOLOv6 
0.919 
0.876 
0.919 
0.607 
KiwiDetector 0.933 
0.889 
0.937 
0.622 
 
Table 2. Counting results of KiwiTracker in 10 videos. 
Video ID 
Ground 
Truth 
Model 
Counts 
Counting 
Errors 
Counting 
Precision 
1 
485 
577 
+92 
0.810  
2 
1074 
1306 
+232 
0.784  
3 
712 
843 
+131 
0.816  
4 
441 
521 
+80 
0.819  
5 
1379 
1691 
+312 
0.774  
6 
293 
348 
+55 
0.812  
7 
491 
587 
+96 
0.804  
8 
313 
369 
+56 
0.821  
9 
1098 
1349 
+251 
0.771  
10 
604 
721 
+117 
0.806  
KiwiTracker ACP = 0.802 
 
Despite the promising results of our proposed method, it still has some limitations. 
Specifically, the performance of our proposed models is suboptimal in videos with 

complex backgrounds, particularly in detecting distracting objects like tree trunks, dead 
foliage, and pedestrians, which can lead to misdetections. To address this issue in future 
work, we propose augmenting the training dataset with more diverse interference 
information or categorizing interference information into distinct labels. These steps 
can help the model to accurately identify kiwifruits by improving its ability to 
distinguish them from background objects [33]. 
References 
1. An, N., Yan, W.Q.: Anomalies detection and tracking using Siamese neural networks. 
Master’s Thesis, Auckland University of Technology, New Zealand. (2020).  
2. An, N., Yan, W.Q.: Multitarget tracking using Siamese neural networks. ACM Transactions 
on Multimedia Computing, Communications, and Applications. 17, 1–16 (2021).  
3. Bewley, A., Ge, Z., Ott, L., Ramos, F., Upcroft, B.: Simple online and realtime tracking. 
2016 IEEE International Conference on Image Processing (ICIP). (2016).  
4. Bochkovskiy, A., Wang, C.-Y., Liao, H.-Y.M.: Yolov4: optimal speed and accuracy of 
object detection, https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.10934.  
5. Fu, Y.H., Yan, W.Q.: Fruit freshness grading using deep learning. Master’s Thesis, 
Auckland University of Technology, New Zealand. (2020).  
6. Gao, F., Fang, W., Sun, X., Wu, Z., Zhao, G., Li, G., Li, R., Fu, L., Zhang, Q.: A novel apple 
fruit detection and counting methodology based on deep learning and trunk tracking in 
modern Orchard. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture. 197, 107000 (2022).  
7. Gao, F., Fu, L., Zhang, X., Majeed, Y., Li, R., Karkee, M., Zhang, Q.: Multi-class fruit-on-
plant detection for Apple in SNAP system using faster R-CNN. Computers and Electronics 
in Agriculture. 176, 105634 (2020). 
8. Gu, Q., Yang, J., Kong, L., Yan, W.Q., Klette, R.: Embedded and real-time vehicle detection 
system for challenging on-road scenes. Optical Engineering. 56, 063102 (2017). 
9. Le, H., Nguyen, M., Yan, W.Q., Nguyen, H.: Augmented reality and machine learning 
incorporation using yolov3 and Arkit. Applied Sciences. 11, 6006 (2021).  
10. Liu, W., Li, Y., Tomasetto, F., Yan, W., Tan, Z., Liu, J., Jiang, J.: Non-destructive 
measurements of Toona sinensis chlorophyll and nitrogen content under drought stress using 
near infrared spectroscopy. Frontiers in Plant Science. 12, (2022).  
11. Liu, Y., Yang, G., Huang, Y., Yin, Y.: Se-mask R-CNN: An improved mask R-CNN for 
Apple Detection and segmentation. Journal of Intelligent & Fuzzy Systems. 41, 6715–6725 
(2021).  
12. Liu, X., Yan, W.Q.: Vehicle-related distance estimation using customized Yolov7. Image 
and Vision Computing. 91–103 (2023).  
13. Luo, Z., Yan, W.Q., Nguyen, M.: Kayak and sailboat detection based on the improved Yolo 
with Transformer. 2022 The 5th International Conference on Control and Computer Vision. 
(2022).  
14. Luo, Z., Yan, W.Q., Nguyen, M.: Sailboat and kayak detection using deep learning methods. 
Master’s Thesis, Auckland University of Technology, New Zealand. (2022).  
15. Lv, J., Ni, H., Wang, Q., Yang, B., Xu, L.: A segmentation method of Red Apple Image. 
Scientia Horticulturae. 256, 108615 (2019). 
16. Massah, J., Asefpour Vakilian, K., Shabanian, M., Shariatmadari, S.M.: Design, 
development, and performance evaluation of a robot for yield estimation of Kiwifruit. 
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture. 185, 106132 (2021).  

17. Pan, C., Liu, J., Yan, W.Q., Cao, F., He, W., Zhou, Y.: Salient object detection based on 
visual perceptual saturation and two-stream hybrid networks. IEEE Transactions on Image 
Processing. 30, 4773–4787 (2021).  
18. Pan, C., Yan, W.Q.: Object detection based on saturation of Visual perception. Multimedia 
Tools and Applications. 79, 19925–19944 (2020).  
19. Qi, J., Nguyen, M., Yan, W.Q.: Small visual object detection in smart waste classification 
using Transformers with deep learning. Image and Vision Computing. 301–314 (2023).  
20. Rahnemoonfar, M., Sheppard, C.: Deep count: Fruit counting based on deep simulated 
learning. Sensors. 17, 905 (2017). 
21. Redmon, J., Divvala, S., Girshick, R., Farhadi, A.: You only look once: Unified, real-time 
object detection. 2016 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition 
(CVPR). (2016).  
22. Shen, D., Chen, X., Nguyen, M., Yan, W.Q.: Flame detection using Deep Learning. 2018 
4th International Conference on Control, Automation and Robotics (ICCAR). (2018).  
23. Song, Z., Tomasetto, F., Niu, X., Yan, W.Q., Jiang, J., Li, Y.: Enabling breeding selection 
for biomass in slash pine using UAV-based imaging. Plant Phenomics. 2022, (2022).  
24. Wang, C.-Y., Bochkovskiy, A., Liao, H.-Y.M.: Yolov7: Trainable bag-of-freebies sets new 
state-of-the-art for real-time object detectors, https://arxiv.org/abs/2207.02696.  
25. Wang, D., He, D.: Apple Detection and instance segmentation in natural environments using 
an improved mask scoring R-CNN model. Frontiers in Plant Science. 13, (2022).  
26. Wojke, N., Bewley, A., Paulus, D.: Simple online and realtime tracking with a Deep 
Association metric. 2017 IEEE International Conference on Image Processing (ICIP). 
(2017).  
27. Xiao, B., Nguyen, M., Yan, W.Q.: Apple ripeness identification using Deep Learning. 
Communications in Computer and Information Science. 53–67 (2021).  
28. Xia, Y., Nguyen, M., Yan, W.Q.: A real-time kiwifruit detection based on improved Yolov7. 
Image and Vision Computing. 48–61 (2023).  
29. Xin, C., Nguyen, M., Yan, W.Q.: Detection and recognition for multiple flames using deep 
learning. Master’s Thesis, Auckland University of Technology, New Zealand. (2018). 
30. Xin, C., Nguyen, M., Yan, W.Q.: Multiple flames recognition using Deep Learning. 
Handbook of Research on Multimedia Cyber Security. 296–307 (2020).  
31. Xing, J.W., Yan, W.Q.: Traffic sign recognition from digital images by using deep learning. 
Master’s Thesis, Auckland University of Technology, New Zealand. (2020). 
32. Yan, W.Q.: Computational methods for deep learning: Theoretic, practice and applications. 
Springer (2021).  
33. Yan, W.Q.: Introduction to intelligent surveillance. Springer International Publishing 
(2019).  
34. Zhang, Q., Yan, W.Q.: Currency detection and recognition based on Deep Learning. 2018 
15th IEEE International Conference on Advanced Video and Signal Based Surveillance 
(AVSS). (2018). 
35. Zhang, Y., Shen, K.J., He, Z.F., Pan, Z.S.: Yolo-infrared: Enhancing Yolox for infrared 
scene. Journal of Physics: Conference Series. 2405, 012015  
36. Zhao, K., Yan, W.Q.: Fruit detection from digital images using CenterNet. Communications 
in Computer and Information Science. 313–326 (2021).  
37. Zhao, K., Yan, W.Q.: Fruit detection using CenterNet. Master’s Thesis, Auckland 
University of Technology, New Zealand. (2021).  
38. Zhu, Y., Yan, W.Q.: Parasite detection from digital images using Deep Learning. Machine 
Learning and AI Techniques in Interactive Medical Image Analysis. 124–134 (2022).  
