Citation: Xiao, F.; Wang, H.; Li, Y.;
Cao, Y.; Lv, X.; Xu, G. Object
Detection and Recognition
Techniques Based on Digital Image
Processing and Traditional Machine
Learning for Fruit and Vegetable
Harvesting Robots: An Overview
and Review. Agronomy 2023, 13, 639.
https://doi.org/10.3390/
agronomy13030639
Academic Editors: Baohua Zhang
and Simon Pearson
Received: 4 January 2023
Revised: 18 February 2023
Accepted: 19 February 2023
Published: 23 February 2023
Copyright:
© 2023 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed
under
the
terms
and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
agronomy
Review
Object Detection and Recognition Techniques Based on Digital
Image Processing and Traditional Machine Learning for Fruit
and Vegetable Harvesting Robots: An Overview and Review
Feng Xiao
, Haibin Wang *
, Yaoxiang Li, Ying Cao, Xiaomeng Lv and Guangfei Xu
College of Engineering and Technology, Northeast Forestry University, Harbin 150040, China
* Correspondence: whb_nefu@nefu.edu.cn
Abstract: The accuracy, speed, and robustness of object detection and recognition are directly related
to the harvesting efﬁciency, quality, and speed of fruit and vegetable harvesting robots. In order to
explore the development status of object detection and recognition techniques for fruit and vegetable
harvesting robots based on digital image processing and traditional machine learning, this article
summarizes and analyzes some representative methods. This article also demonstrates the current
challenges and future potential developments. This work aims to provide a reference for future
research on object detection and recognition techniques for fruit and vegetable harvesting robots
based on digital image processing and traditional machine learning.
Keywords: digital image processing; traditional machine learning; harvesting robot; computer vision;
object detection; object recognition; research overview; research review
1. Introduction
Fruit harvesting is an important aspect of farming. It directly affects the yield and
proﬁtability of cultivation. With the increasing scale of global cultivation (e.g., global
annual production of fruits and vegetables such as tomato, citrus, apple, and strawberry,
has reached 182 million tons [1], 89 million tons [2], 86 million tons [3], and 9 million
tons [4], respectively), the contradiction between the large amount of labor used in tradi-
tional production methods and labor shortages has become increasingly prominent. The
labor cost of fruit and vegetable harvesting has reached 30–50% of the total production
cost [5–9]. Fruit and vegetable harvesting robots have attracted broad attention in the agri-
cultural ﬁeld (as shown in Figure 1) because of their high productivity and low production
cost [10,11]. As shown in Figure 2, taking typical fruits and vegetables such as plums [12],
apples [13–16], sweet peppers [17–19], strawberries [6,7,20], litchis [21], tomatoes [22,23],
and kiwifruits [24] as objects, a series of harvesting robots have been developed and applied
in greenhouses and orchards. Fruit and vegetable harvesting robots have entered a critical
period in the progression from laboratory research to industrial applications.
As an important part of vision systems of fruit and vegetable harvesting robots, the
accuracy, speed, and robustness of object detection and recognition are directly related
to the harvesting efﬁciency, quality, and speed. Vision systems of harvesting robots vary
for different picking targets. Their characteristics mainly include the imaging sensor
and the speciﬁc content of crop visual information. Black/white, RGB, spectral, and
thermal cameras (as shown in Table 1) are widely used in harvesting robots to obtain
color, shape, texture, and size information of fruits in a speciﬁc operational area. Different
processes of object detection and recognition of fruits and vegetables are shown in Figure 3.
Many researchers have conducted extensive and in-depth research on object detection and
recognition techniques for fruit and vegetable harvesting robots based on digital image
processing and traditional machine learning. The research can be subdivided into the
following aspects:
Agronomy 2023, 13, 639. https://doi.org/10.3390/agronomy13030639
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/agronomy

Agronomy 2023, 13, 639
2 of 29
(1) Techniques based on digital image processing, such as color features (RGB (Red,
Green, Blue) [25–28], HSV (Hue, Saturation, Value) [29–31], HSI (Hue, Saturation Inten-
sity) [32–34], Lab (Lightness, Green to Red and Blue to Yellow) [33,35,36], HSB (Hue, Satu-
ration, Brightness), YCbCr)-based methods, shape feature-based methods [37–46], texture
feature-based methods [44,47–52], and multi-feature fusion-based methods [17,28,39,52–67].
(2) Image segmentation and classifiers based on traditional machine learning, such as K-
means clustering algorithm-based methods [68–75], SVM (Support Vector Machine) algorithm-
based methods [54,57,69,73,76–84], KNN (K Nearest Neighbor) clustering algorithm-based
methods [36,85–91], AdaBoost (Adaptive Boosting) algorithm-based methods [62,92–99], deci-
sion tree algorithm-based methods [100–107], and Bayesian algorithm-based methods [108–113].
 
Figure 1. Digital farming with agricultural robotics (source: www.AdaptiveAgroTech.com (accessed
on 1 October 2022)).
Table 1. Comparison of frequently used sensors for fruit and vegetable recognition.
Sensors
Features Exploited
Advantages
Disadvantages
Black/white camera
Shape and
texture features
A negligible effect on
changing
lighting conditions
Lack of color
information of
target objects
RGB camera
Color, shape, and
texture features
Exploits all the basic
features
of target objects
Highly sensitive to
changing
lighting conditions
Spectral camera
Color features and
spectral information
Provides more
information
about reﬂectance
Computationally
expensive for
complete
spectrum analysis
Thermal camera
Thermal signatures
Color Invariant
Dependency on
minute
thermal difference
This article provides an overview and review of the progress in object detection
and recognition techniques for fruit and vegetable harvesting robots based on digital
image processing and traditional machine learning. Although there have been some
reviews of techniques for object detection and recognition of fruits and vegetables [114–135],
the contributions of this work are to: (1) systematically summarize object detection and

Agronomy 2023, 13, 639
3 of 29
recognition techniques of fruit and vegetable harvesting robots based on digital image
processing and traditional machine learning in recent years; (2) systematically analyze the
advantages, disadvantages, and applicability of various techniques; and (3) demonstrate
the current challenges and future potential developments. Through this clearer and more
comprehensive overview and review, we aim to provide a reference for future research on
object detection and recognition techniques of fruit and vegetable harvesting robots based
on digital image processing and traditional machine learning.
 
Figure 2. Typical harvesting robots: (a) a plum harvesting robot (Photo: Reprinted with permission
from Ref. [12]. 2021, Brown, J.); (b,d–f) apple harvesting robots (Photo: Reprinted with permission
from Ref. [13]. 2021, Yan, B.; Ref. [14]. 2017, He, L.; Ref. [15]. 2012, Ji, W.; Ref. [16]. 2011, Zhao,
D.); (c,n–p) sweet pepper harvesting robots (Photo: Reprinted with permission from Ref. [17]. 2020,
Arad, B.; Ref. [18]. 2017, Lehnert, C.; Ref. [19]. 2014, Bac, C.W.); (g–i) strawberry harvesting robots
(Photo: Reprinted with permission from Ref. [6]. 2020, Xiong, Y.; Ref. [7]. 2019, Xiong, Y.; Ref. [20].
2010, Hayashi, S.); (j) a litchi harvesting robot (Photo: Reprinted with permission from Ref. [21].
2018, Xiong, J.); (k,m) tomato harvesting robots (Photo: Reprinted with permission from Ref. [22].
2018, Feng, Q.; Ref. [23]. 2010, Kondo, N.); (l) a kiwifruit harvesting robot (Photo: Reprinted with
permission from Ref. [24]. 2019, Williams, H.A.M.).

Agronomy 2023, 13, 639
4 of 29
Figure 3. Different processes of object detection and recognition of fruits and vegetables.
The outline of this overview and review is shown in Figure 4. The organization of
this paper is as follow: in Section 2, we provide an overview and review of the research
and development in object detection and recognition techniques of fruits and vegetables
based on digital image processing. We present separate discussions focused on color, shape,
texture features, and multi-feature fusion-based methods.
 
Figure 4. The outline of this overview and review.

Agronomy 2023, 13, 639
5 of 29
In Section 3, we provide an overview and review of the research and development in
object detection and recognition techniques of fruits and vegetables based on traditional
machine learning. We present separate discussions focused on K-means clustering, SVM,
KNN clustering, AdaBoost, decision tree, and Bayesian algorithm-based methods.
Section 4 extends our discussions to the challenges and further research of object
detection and recognition techniques of fruits and vegetables. A summary of ﬁndings and
conclusions are presented in Section 5.
2. Techniques Based on Digital Image Processing
Colors, shapes, and textures are important features used by fruit and vegetable harvest-
ing robots for detecting and recognizing target objects. Many researchers have conducted
extensive and in-depth research on object detection and recognition techniques of fruits and
vegetables based on color features (RGB [25–28], HSV [29–31], HIS [32–34], Lab [33,35,36],
HSB, YCbCr), shape features [37–46], texture features [44,47–52], and multi-feature fu-
sion [17,28,39,52–67] (as shown in Figure 5). Table 2 compares the results of different
techniques by different researchers, and presents analysis of the advantages, disadvantages,
and applicability of various techniques.
 
Figure 5. Techniques based on digital image processing.

Agronomy 2023, 13, 639
6 of 29
Table 2. Comparison of techniques based on digital image processing.
Applied Crops
Description
Sensors
Advantages
Improvements
Value of
Metrics Used %
Ref.
Apple
The near-large fruit from the
apple image in orchards
should be obtained
RGB camera
The R-channel and G-channel
images of orchard apple RGB
images are operated by the
Adaptive Gamma
Correction method
Future work may include
improving the detection rate
70
[27]
Tomato
A new mature tomato
detection algorithm based
on the improved HSV color
space and the improved
watershed segmentation
RGB camera
Mature red tomatoes
are detected
successfully even with
light effect
The accuracy of recognition
needs to be improved
81.6
[31]
Apple
The potential use of
close-range and low-cost
terrestrial RGB imaging
sensors for fruit detection in
a high-density apple orchard
RGB camera
Band combinations are
generated as
additional parameters for
fruit detection
Unripe fruits with poor
lighting are not detected in
the methodology
75
[35]
Blueberry
Recognizing blueberry fruit
of different maturity using
histogram-oriented
gradients and color features
in outdoor scenes
RGB camera
Using a* and b* features in the
L*a*b*
color space to discard
non-fruit regions
The speed of detection needs
to be improved
mature fruit: 96.1
intermediate fruit: 94.2
young fruit: 86
[36]
Apple
The Hough Circle
Transformation algorithm is
proposed to ﬁt and extract
apple shapes
RGB camera
In order to overcome the
problem of Global Hough
Transform, a local parameter
Adaptive Hough Transform
is used
When the recognition
algorithm is faced with
multiple overlapping apples,
if the apples are not arranged
in a straight line, it is easy to
obtain recognition errors
91.3
(72 ms)
[25]

Agronomy 2023, 13, 639
7 of 29
Table 2. Cont.
Applied Crops
Description
Sensors
Advantages
Improvements
Value of
Metrics Used %
Ref.
Citrus, tomato,
pumpkin, bitter
gourd, towel gourd,
and mango
Fruit detection in natural
environments using Partial
Shape Matching and
Probabilistic
Hough Transform
RGB camera
PSM and PHT are used
for sub-fragment
detection and aggregation
without necessitating the
painstaking design of speciﬁc
features for each type of fruit.
This makes the proposed
algorithm a
generalized method
PHT utilizes a scale-variant
dissimilarity metric to
determine the probability
value of a vote. So, it may fail
to detect fruits with large
scale changes
78.3; 84.8; 74.5; 76.2;
80.7; 91.9
[37]
Orange
A machine vision algorithm
combining adaptive
segmentation and shape
analysis for orange
fruit detection
RGB camera
In the segmentation of the
fruit, the orange is enhanced
by using the red chromaticity
coefﬁcient, which enables
adaptive segmentation under
variable outdoor illumination
The speed of detection needs
to be improved
93
[45]
Green fruits
A technique based on
texture analysis is proposed
for detecting green fruits
RGB camera
The method is sufﬁciently
accurate for precise location
and monitoring of textured
fruit in the ﬁeld
The method needs to be
improved to better handle
some disadvantageous
conditions such as strong
sunlight and occlusions
pineapple: 85 bitter
melon: 100
[51]
Green apple
Detection of green apples in
hyperspectral images of
apple-tree foliage using
machine vision
Spectral camera
The method uses several
techniques, such as extraction
and classiﬁcation of
homogenous objects for
analyzing hyperspectral data
Independent studies need to
be conducted in a variety of
conditions and with a number
of crop varieties to verify the
robustness of the method
88.1
[46]
Green citrus
Green citrus detection using
‘eigenfruit’, color and
circular
Gabor texture features under
natural outdoor conditions
RGB camera
The method proposes the use
of color, shape, and texture
features together to detect
immature green citrus fruits,
including scanning an image
using a sub-window, and
merging results of different
classiﬁers with majority voting
Future work may include
improving the detection rate,
reducing the processing time,
and accommodating more
varied outdoor conditions
75.3
[44]

Agronomy 2023, 13, 639
8 of 29
Table 2. Cont.
Applied Crops
Description
Sensors
Advantages
Improvements
Value of
Metrics Used %
Ref.
Immature
citrus
Immature citrus fruit
detection based on local
binary pattern features and
hierarchical contour analysis
RGB camera
The good performance of
occlusion tolerance of the
proposed method is mainly
due to the robust LBP texture
descriptor and hierarchical
contour analysis which uses
the pattern of light intensity
distribution on the
fruit surface
The fruit occluded very
seriously or even completely
by leaves and other fruits
couldn’t be detected by the
proposed method
82.3
[39]
Litchi
A method of ripe litchi
recognition for two varieties
of litchis using RGB-D
images is proposed
RGB-D camera
The random forest binary
classiﬁcation model is trained
employing color and texture
features to recognize
litchi fruits
Depth segmentation can
effectively reduce the false
positive rate of
litchi recognition
green litchi: 89.92
red litchi: 94.5
[55]
Oil palm fresh fruit
bunch
The maturity classiﬁcation
of oil palm fresh fruit
bunches based on color and
texture features
RGB camera
Forty features are extracted
from several color spaces,
which were reduced to ﬁve
features using the PCA
method to optimize the
computation time
The speed of detection needs
to be improved
98.3
[53]
Strawberry
A simple color thresholding
algorithm based on the RGB
channels for detecting
strawberries
RGB-D camera
The vision system uses color
thresholding combined with
screening of the object area
and the depth range to select
ripe and reachable
strawberries, which is fast
for processing
Future work could merge the
detection from multiple
frames so that occluded
strawberries can be visible
from a different view
isolated strawberry:96.8
occluded strawberry:53.6
[18]

Agronomy 2023, 13, 639
9 of 29
2.1. Techniques Based on Color Features
Mature fruits and vegetables usually have signiﬁcant and stable color features. Color
features provide a set of indicators for the detection and recognition of fruits and vegetables.
Object detection and recognition techniques of fruits and vegetables based on color features,
extract color features through Color Histogram, Color Set, Color Moment, and Color
Coherence Vector. The techniques based on color features are mainly applicable to cases
where the colors of fruits and vegetables are signiﬁcantly different from the backgrounds
(branches, leaves, trunks), such as tomatoes [28,31], apples [29,35], mangoes [34], bananas,
cherries, citrus, prunes, and strawberries.
Goel and Sehgal [28] detected and recognized several ripening stages of tomatoes
using RGB image information. This research has a positive implication for selecting the
best ripening stage of fruits and vegetables. For example, fruits and vegetables that need to
be transported over long distances can be harvested at an early stage of ripeness.
Zemmour et al. [26] analyzed different color spaces. The research results showed that
evaluating different color spaces is very important, because for different kinds of fruits
and vegetables, a different color space might be superior to the others. In order to improve
the accuracy of the detection and recognition of tomatoes, marigold ﬂowers, and apples,
Malik et al. [31], Sethy et al. [30], Yu et al. [29], respectively, converted RGB images into
HSV color space, and then separated the image luminance channels. Ratprakhon et al. [34]
converted RGB images into HIS color space to detect and recognize the ripeness of mangoes.
Tan et al. [36] and Bifﬁet al. [35], respectively, converted RGB images into Lab color space
to detect and recognize blueberries and apples. Zemmour et al. [26] suggested that Lab
color space could be used more for low quality images because it is more robust to noise in
images. In challenging color conditions (for example, where fruit and vegetable colors are
similar to the backgrounds), other features could be considered to improve the effectiveness
of object detection and recognition for fruit and vegetable harvesting robots.
The detection and recognition time of fruits and vegetables based on color features
is relatively long. In order to shorten the detection and recognition time, Yang et al. [25]
proposed an Otsu’s thresholding method based on the two times Red minus Green minus
Blue (2R-G-B) color feature to segment images. Lv et al. [27] operated the R-channel and
G-channel images of orchard apple RGB images using the Adaptive Gamma Correction
method. This method not only shortened the detection and recognition time, but also
overcame the inﬂuence of changing lighting conditions. Zemmour et al. [26] proposed
an automatic parameter tuning procedure specially developed for the dynamic adaptive
thresholding algorithm for object detection and recognition of fruits and vegetables. The
thresholds were selected by quantifying the required relationship between the true and
false positive rates.
In general, techniques for object detection and recognition of fruits and vegetables
based on color features are less dependent on image size. However, the variability and
uncertainty of fruit and vegetable maturity can affect the accuracy, speed, and robust-
ness of detection and recognition. These techniques are mainly applicable to structured
environments such as greenhouses.
2.2. Techniques Based on Shape Features
Mature fruits and vegetables usually have signiﬁcant and stable shape features. Geo-
metric shape features provide another set of indicators for the detection and recognition of
fruits and vegetables. Techniques for object detection and recognition of fruits and vegeta-
bles based on shape features, extract shape features using the Boundary Feature Method,
Fourier Shape Descriptor, Shape Factor, and Shape Moment Invariant. These techniques are
mainly applied to cases where the shapes of fruits and vegetables are signiﬁcantly different
from the backgrounds. For example, the shapes of apples and citrus are usually rounded
compared to the branches and leaves, and a cucumber shows an elongated fruit shape (as
shown in Figure 6).

Agronomy 2023, 13, 639
10 of 29
 
Figure 6. Samples of cucumbers in a natural complex environment (Photo: Reprinted with permission
from Ref. [136]. 2020, Mao S.).
For round fruits, Hannan et al. [45] detected and recognized fruits in clusters by
shape analysis. This method can better detect and recognize target objects in changing
lighting conditions. Jana and Parekh [42] proposed a shape-based fruit detection and
recognition method. It involves a pre-processing step to normalize a fruit image with
respect to variations in translation, rotation, and scaling, and utilizes features that do not
change due to varying distances, growth stages, or surface appearances of fruits. The
method was applied to 210 images of 7 fruit classes. The overall recognition accuracy
ranged from 88 to 95%. Lu et al. [39] proposed a new shape analysis method called
Hierarchical Contour Analysis (HCA). The hierarchical contour maps around each local
maximum were extracted and ﬁtted with Circular Hough Transform, and the ﬁtted circles
were predicted as fruit targets if their radii were in a predetermined range. The HCA can
effectively utilize shape information, and does not need to extract and analyze the edge
in an image. Therefore, it is efﬁcient and robust under various lighting conditions and
occlusions in natural environments. Lin et al. [37] also proposed a method for the detection
and recognition of fruits and vegetables based on shape features. The research results
showed that the method is competitive for detecting most kinds (such as green, orange,
circular, and non-circular) of fruits and vegetables in natural environments.
Since the shapes of fruits and vegetables are usually not affected by the colors, object
detection and recognition techniques of fruits and vegetables based on shape features
are more effective for cases where the colors of fruits and vegetables are similar to the
backgrounds, while the shapes of fruits and vegetables are signiﬁcantly different from the
backgrounds, such as green citrus [37,40,44], green apples [38,43,46], cucumbers, green
peppers, and watermelons.
In general, techniques for object detection and recognition of fruits and vegetables
based on shape features are less dependent on lighting conditions. However, in unstruc-
tured environments, the randomness of fruit and vegetable growth can affect the accuracy,
speed, and robustness of detection and recognition of fruits and vegetables. These tech-
niques are mainly applicable to natural orchards with certain agricultural operations.
2.3. Techniques Based on Texture Features
Mature fruits and vegetables usually have signiﬁcant and stable texture features, and
the surface textures of fruits and vegetables are usually smoother than the backgrounds.
Texture features provide another set of indicators for the detection and recognition of fruits
and vegetables. Techniques for object detection and recognition of fruits and vegetables

Agronomy 2023, 13, 639
11 of 29
based on texture features, extract texture features through the GLCM (Grey Level Co-
Occurrence Matrix), Tamura texture features, SAR (Simultaneous Auto-Regression), Gabro
transform, and Wavelet transform. These techniques are mainly applicable to cases where
the textures of fruits and vegetables are signiﬁcantly different from the backgrounds, such
as apples [52], bitter melons [51], citrus [44], papayas [110], and pineapples [51].
Trey et al. [49] used leaf texture features as parameters for plant family detection and
recognition. The research results showed that the method gives a perfect classiﬁcation
of three plant families of the Ivorian ﬂora. Rahman et al. [47] detected and recognized
tomato leaf diseases through 13 different statistical features calculated from tomato leaves
using the GLCM algorithm. The method was implemented in the form of a cell phone
application. The research results showed that the method provides excellent annotation
with an accuracy of 100% for healthy leaf, 95% for early blight, 90% for Septoria leaf spot,
and 85% for late blight.
Since the surface textures of fruits and vegetables are usually not affected by the
colors and shapes, techniques for object detection and recognition of fruits and vegetables
based on texture features are more effective for cases where the colors and shapes of
fruits and vegetables are similar to the backgrounds, while the textures of fruits and
vegetables are signiﬁcantly different from the backgrounds. Kurtulmus et al. [44] used
circular Gabor texture analysis for the detection and recognition of green citrus. The
method detected and recognized target fruits by scanning the whole image, but the correct
rate was only 75.3%. To improve the accuracy of detection and recognition of fruits and
vegetables, Chaivivatrakul and Dailey [51] proposed a texture-based feature detection and
recognition method for green fruits. The method involves interest point feature extraction
and descriptor computation, interest point classiﬁcation using support vector machines,
candidate fruit point mapping, and morphological closing and fruit region extraction. This
approach can effectively improve the correct rate of detection and recognition of green fruits
(more than 85%). In addition, Hameed et al. [48] proposed a texture-based latent space
disentanglement method to enhance the learning of representations for novel data samples.
In general, the main problem of techniques for object detection and recognition of
fruits and vegetables based on texture features is that changing lighting conditions and
complex backgrounds can affect the accuracy, speed, and robustness of detection and
recognition. These techniques are mainly applicable to greenhouse environments.
2.4. Techniques Based on Multi-Feature Fusion
Techniques for object detection and recognition of fruits and vegetables based on a
kind of feature can recognize fruits from natural environments, but they usually have
certain limitations. Techniques for object detection and recognition of fruits and vegetables
that integrate two or more features to form multi-feature fusion can effectively improve the
accuracy, speed, and robustness of detection and recognition [59,92,95,136–139].
In terms of color and shape features, Liu et al. [60] proposed a method for the detection
and recognition of incomplete red apples (as shown in Figure 7). The research results are
shown in Figure 8. The method can be used to detect not only apples, but can also be used
to detect other fruits that have different colors from the backgrounds, such as oranges,
kiwifruits, and tomatoes. However, the method only detects fruits using rectangular boxes.
Pixel-wise segmentation is more accurate than detection boxes. Recognizing fruits at the
pixel level could be the focus of further work. Arad et al. [17], and Liu et al. [58] extracted
color features from RGB color channels of fruit and vegetable images, and morphological
features were extracted from the images with detected fruit and vegetable borders using
morphological operations. Then, they detected and recognized bell peppers, grapefruits,
and peaches.
In terms of color and texture features, to solve segmentation problems, Lin and
Zou [62] proposed a new segmentation method using color and texture features. This
method incorporates HSV color features and Leung–Malik texture features to detect citrus
using ﬁxed-size sub-windows. Madgi and Danti [63] classiﬁed fruits and vegetables

Agronomy 2023, 13, 639
12 of 29
based on color features and GLCM texture features. The research results showed that the
combination of color with GLCM texture features is more effective than combined color
and LBP texture features.
 
 
(a) 
(b) 
Figure 7. Two kinds of apple fruits: (a) completely red fruits; (b) incompletely red fruits (Photo:
Reprinted with permission from Ref. [60]. 2019, Liu X.).
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
 
(d) 
Figure 8. Detection results of different images: (a1–a4) images taken under front light; (b1–b4) images
taken under backlight; (c1–c4) images taken under side light; (d1–d4) images taken under artiﬁcial
light (Photo: Reprinted with permission from Ref. [60]. 2019, Liu X.).
In terms of shape and texture features, Lu et al. [39], Mustaffa et al. [61], and Bhargava
and Bansal [54] recognized fruits and vegetables by shape features including area, perimeter,
and roundness, and constructed fruit and vegetable textures based on local binary patterns.
Finally, they classiﬁed green citrus, multi-species durians, and multi-species apples.
In terms of color, shape, and texture features, Rakun et al. [52] achieved apple detection
and recognition under uneven lighting conditions, partial fruit shading, and a similar
background by combining color, shape, and texture features. Basavaiah and Anthony [56]

Agronomy 2023, 13, 639
13 of 29
proposed a detection and recognition method based on color, shape, and texture features
for a variety of tomato diseases. Azarmdel et al. [57] and Septiarini et al. [53], respectively,
achieved the detection and recognition of mulberries and oil palms based on multiple
features such as color, shape, and texture features.
Currently, digital image processing techniques used by researchers for the detection
and recognition of fruits and vegetables always require setting thresholds such as color,
shape, and texture features, but the optimal thresholds often vary with images. In order to
address this problem, Payne et al. [66] proposed using RGB and YCbCr color segmentation
and texture segmentation based on the variability of neighboring pixels to divide pixels into
target fruit and background pixels for high-accuracy detection and recognition. However,
this method relies too much on the color features of images, and the recognition accuracy is
low when the color features are not obvious. For this reason, Payne et al. [65], based on
the previously proposed algorithm, reduced the reliance on color features by setting the
boundary-constrained mean and edge detection ﬁlters, and increased the use of texture ﬁl-
tering. The research results showed that the recognition accuracy is signiﬁcantly improved
compared with before the improvement. Yamamoto et al. [64] used a multi-feature fusion
method to simplify the tedious steps of setting thresholds for each image and improve the
accuracy of detection and recognition.
3. Image Segmentation and Classiﬁers Based on Machine Learning
Since machine learning can derive laws from sample data that can hardly be summa-
rized by theoretical analysis, many researchers have conducted extensive and in-depth
research on techniques for object detection and recognition of fruits and vegetables based on
the K-means clustering algorithm [68–75], SVM algorithm [54,57,69,73,76–84], KNN cluster-
ing algorithm [36,85–91], AdaBoost algorithm [62,92–99], decision tree algorithm [100–107],
and Bayesian algorithm [108–113] (as shown in Figures 9 and 10). Table 3 compares the re-
sults of different techniques of different researchers, and presents analysis of the advantages,
disadvantages, and applicability of various techniques.

Agronomy 2023, 13, 639
14 of 29
Table 3. Comparison of techniques based on traditional machine learning.
Applied Crops
Description
Sensors
Advantages
Improvements
Value of Metric Used %
Ref.
Litchi
A litchi recognition algorithm
based on K-means clustering is
presented to separate litchi from
leaves, branches
and background
Two CCD color cameras
The method can be robust against
the inﬂuences of varying
illumination and precisely
recognize litchi
Future research could improve the
localization accuracy of litchi via
hardware and software
improvements
unoccluded: 98.8; partially
occluded: 97.5
[75]
Apple
The development of a real-time
machine vision recognition
system to guide a harvesting
robotic for picking apples in
different conditions
CCD camera
The segmentation method based on
seeded region growing methods and
color features is applied, and color
and shape features of color images
are extracted
Reducing the recognition execution
time is still a challenge
89
(352 ms)
[14]
Aubergine
To detect and locate the
aubergines automatically, an
algorithm based on SVM
classiﬁer is implemented
TOF camera
The occlusion algorithm is applied
to aubergines that have low
visibility due to leaf occlusions by
planning a collaborative behavior
between the arms to solve the
problem of occlusion and proceed
with dual-arm harvesting
Most of the failures are related to
changing lighting conditions. So,
future work to enhance the
harvester robot should prioritize
improvements to image acquisition
91.67
(26 ms)
[77]
Citrus
Identiﬁcation of fruits and
branches in natural scenes for a
citrus harvesting robot using
machine vision and support
vector machine
Color CCD camera
A multi-class support vector
machine, which
succeeds by morphological
operation, was used
to simultaneously segment the fruits
and branches
The effect on feature extraction, and
real-time response of the
identiﬁcation method, have to be
further optimized
92.4
[73]
Tomato
An algorithm is proposed for
tomato detection in regular
color images to reduce the
inﬂuence of illumination
and occlusion
RGB camera
The proposed method used a
combination of shape, texture, and
color information. HOG descriptors
are adopted in this work. An SVM
classiﬁer is used to implement the
classiﬁcation task
Future research could focus on
further improving the detection
accuracy and extension to other
stages of tomatoes
94.41
(950 ms)
[83]
Green pepper
A green pepper recognition
method based on least-squares
support vector machine
optimized by improved particle
swarm optimization
RGB camera
In order to reduce the complexity of
data calculations and improve the
efﬁciency, the extracted feature
vectors are normalized. The feature
vector is used as the input
eigenvector of the least-squares
support vector machine (LSSVM).
Due to the high rate of leak
recognition, the correct recognition
rate of green pepper needs to
be improved
89.04
(320 ms)
[81]

Agronomy 2023, 13, 639
15 of 29
Table 3. Cont.
Applied Crops
Description
Sensors
Advantages
Improvements
Value of Metric Used %
Ref.
Tomato
A dual-arm cooperative
approach for a tomato
harvesting robot using a
binocular vision sensor
Stereo camera
A tomato detection algorithm
combining an AdaBoost classiﬁer
and color analysis is proposed and
employed by the harvesting robot
Future work could focus on the
improvement in the successful
harvesting rate under
uncertain conditions
96
[93]
Tomato
Detecting tomatoes in
greenhouse scenes by
combining an AdaBoost
classiﬁer and color analysis
RGB camera
To use shape, texture, and color
information, Haar-like features, an
AdaBoost algorithm, and
APV-based color analysis
are implemented
Future work could include
enhanced detection rates, reducing
the processing time, and various
cultivars of tomatoes, and
accommodate more varied
unstructured environments
96
[99]
Immature green citrus
Used only regular RGB images
of the citrus canopy to detect
immature green citrus fruit in
natural environments
RGB camera
A local binary patterns
feature-based Adaptive Boosting
(AdaBoost) classiﬁer is built to
remove false positives. A
sub-window is used to scan the
difference image between the
illumination-normalized image and
the resulting image from CHT
detection in order to detect small
areas and partially occluded fruit
It can improve image processing
speed by decreasing false positive
removal time
85.6
[96]
Grain impurity of rice
Real-time grain impurity
sensing for rice combines
harvesters using image
processing and decision
tree algorithm
CMOS camera
The illumination method is
optimized by histogram
equalization. Decision tree
classiﬁcation is used
Future work may include improving
the detection rate, reducing the
processing time, and
accommodating more varied
outdoor conditions
76
[102]

Agronomy 2023, 13, 639
16 of 29
 
Figure 9. The idea of image segmentation and classiﬁers based on traditional machine learning.
 
Figure 10. Techniques based on traditional machine learning.

Agronomy 2023, 13, 639
17 of 29
In general, compared to techniques based on digital image processing, techniques
based on traditional machine learning have improved the speed, accuracy, and robustness
of the detection and recognition of fruits and vegetables to different degrees. However, tech-
niques based on traditional machine learning are sensitive to the inputs of abnormal data.
Various parameters need to be set in advance before training, and the ﬁnal classiﬁcation
effect is related to the setting of various parameters. Some parameters are also affected by
changing lighting conditions, which make the tuning processes more complicated. At the
same time, the current mainstream image segmentation and classiﬁers based on traditional
machine learning are often solutions for speciﬁc scenes, so they usually lack generality.
They are less effective for multiple classiﬁcation problems, and are mainly applicable to the
detection and recognition of a single species in greenhouse environments.
3.1. Techniques Based on K-Means Clustering Algorithm
The K-means clustering algorithm is a widely used unsupervised learning method. It
can automatically classify input data into identical and different classes based on their ﬁxed
distances from each other. Techniques for object detection and recognition of fruits and
vegetables based on the K-means clustering algorithm are widely used. Wang et al. [75]
proposed a litchi detection and recognition algorithm based on K-means clustering. The
research results showed that the method can be robust against the inﬂuence of changing
lighting conditions. The highest average recognition rates of un-occluded and partially
occluded litchi were 98.8% and 97.5%, respectively. Luo et al. [72] proposed a K-means
clustering algorithm-based detection and recognition method for cutting points of double-
overlapping grape clusters for harvesting robots in a complex vineyard environment. The
recognition accuracy of the overlapping grape clusters was 88.33%. The success detection
rate of the cutting points on the peduncles of double-overlapping grape clusters was 81.66%.
Jiao et al. [70] also proposed a fast detection and localization method for overlapping apples
based on K-means clustering and a local maximum algorithm.
In order to further resist the effect of changing lighting conditions, Wang et al. [74]
improved the wavelet transform and used the K-means clustering algorithm to segment
target images. The method not only accurately segments fruits with different colors, but
also maintains high accuracy for the detection and recognition of fruits under changing
lighting conditions.
In order to exclude the interference information in images as much as possible,
Luo et al. [72] used the K-means clustering algorithm to obtain a complete closed tar-
get image region after segmentation, denoising, and ﬁlling operations on the captured
image. To obtain more feature information of target fruits, Moallem et al. [73] applied the
K-means clustering algorithm to the Cb component in YCbCr color space, and the defect
segmentation was achieved using a Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP) neural network. Then,
statistical, textural, and geometric features from reﬁned defected regions were extracted.
Although the classiﬁcation accuracy of this method is high, the weaknesses are obvious.
First, the K-value must be given in advance, but it is difﬁcult to do so. Second, the randomly
selected K-centroids will have a large impact on the classiﬁcation results.
In general, these techniques do not need to give labels, and can automatically classify
target objects and backgrounds according to the ﬁxed values between input data. Therefore,
the advantages of techniques for object detection and recognition of fruits and vegetables
based on the K-means clustering algorithm are short computation time, fast response time,
and good clustering effect (especially when the clusters are dense and the differences are
obvious). The disadvantages are that they are sensitive to abnormal data, and the randomly
selected K-values have a large impact on the classiﬁcation results.
3.2. Techniques Based on SVM Algorithm
The SVM algorithm is a widely used supervised learning method. It is commonly used
in linear/nonlinear regression analysis and pattern classiﬁcation. It achieves classiﬁcation
by solving the separated hyperplane that correctly partitions the training set and has the

Agronomy 2023, 13, 639
18 of 29
largest geometric separation. Techniques for object detection and recognition of fruits
and vegetables based on the SVM algorithm are widely used. Bhargava1 and Bansal [54],
Patel and Chaudhari [78], Singh and Singh [82], and Moallem et al. [73] compared the
performance of different classiﬁers (SVM, KNN, etc.) for the detection and recognition of
different fruits and vegetables. The research results showed that, in their studies, the SVM
classiﬁer performs better than the other classiﬁers.
To improve the cooperative capability of fruit and vegetable harvesting robots,
Sepúlveda et al. [77] implemented a cooperative operation between the arms of a two-
armed eggplant harvesting robot based on the SVM algorithm. To address the problems
of local occlusions, irregular shapes, and high similarity to backgrounds, Ji et al. [81]
proposed a green pepper recognition method based on a least-squares support vector
machine optimized by the improved particle swarm optimization (IPSO-LSSVM). The
research results showed that the recognition rate of green peppers was 89.04%, and the
average recognition time was 320 ms. This approach meets the requirements of accuracy
and time of greenhouse green pepper harvesting robots.
To further improve the accuracy, speed, and robustness of detection and recognition
of fruits and vegetables, Yang et al. [80] also proposed an image segmentation method for
Hangzhou white chrysanthemum based on the least-square support vector machine (LS-
SVM). The research results showed that the trained LS-SVM model and SVM model could
effectively segment the images of Hangzhou white chrysanthemum from complicated
backgrounds under three lighting conditions, namely, front lighting, back lighting, and
overshadowing, with an accuracy of above 90%. When segmenting an image, the SVM
algorithm required 1.3 s, while the proposed LS-SVM algorithm needed just 0.7 s. In
addition, the implementation of the proposed segmentation algorithm on the harvesting
robot achieved an 81% harvesting success rate.
In general, the advantages of techniques for object detection and recognition of fruits
and vegetables based on SVM algorithm are that they simplify classiﬁcation and regression
problems, and can achieve good classiﬁcation for the data outside the training set. At
the same time, they can solve the problem of small samples of target fruits in natural
environments, and do not increase the computational complexity when mapping to high-
dimensional space. Therefore, the segmentation of fruit and vegetable images containing
many high light points can be effectively realized by these techniques. The disadvantages
are that they are too sensitive to the adjustment of the algorithm parameters and the
selection of the kernel function. The kernel function and its parameters must be reselected
for a new dataset. In addition, the accuracy is only high for binary classiﬁcation tasks, but
less effective for multi-classiﬁcation problems.
3.3. Technique Based on KNN Clustering Algorithm
The KNN clustering algorithm is a widely used supervised learning method. It
is commonly used in classiﬁcation and regression models. It achieves classiﬁcation by
classifying unknown feature vectors into classes of the most common attributes of the K
nearest neighbors using the training set. Techniques for object detection and recognition of
fruits and vegetables based on the KNN clustering algorithm are more widely used. Based
on the KNN clustering algorithm, Tan et al. [36], Astuti et al. [90], Suban et al. [89], Sarimole
and Rosiana [85], and Sarimole and Fadillah [86] detected and recognized the ripeness of
blueberries, oil palms, papayas, betel nuts, and pomegranates, respectively.
Tanco et al. [91] studied the detection and recognition of fruits and vegetables using
three types of classiﬁers (SVM, KNN, and decision tree). The research results showed
that the KNN clustering algorithm produced the best detection and recognition results.
Ghazal et al. [88] trained and tested six supervised machine learning methods (SVM, KNN,
decision tree, Bayesian, Linear Discriminant Analysis, and feed-forward back propagation
neural network) on a publicly available Fruits 360 dataset. The research results showed that the
methods based on the KNN clustering algorithm achieve relatively high classification accuracy.

Agronomy 2023, 13, 639
19 of 29
In general, techniques based on the KNN clustering algorithm are able to classify the
K nearest neighbors using functions to measure the distance between different eigenvalues.
The advantages of techniques based on the KNN clustering algorithm are high classiﬁcation
accuracy, relative insensitivity to abnormal data, and no assumptions about input data.
However, it is tedious to set a reasonable scaling factor of K in these methods. With a
small value of K, the model complexity is high, overﬁtting is likely to occur, the estimation
error of learning increases, and the prediction results are very sensitive to the instance
points of the nearest neighbors. With a larger value of K, the complexity of the model and
the estimation error of learning decreases, which is suitable for classiﬁcation of a small
dataset, but the approximation error of learning increases. The disadvantages are large
computational effort, and high time and space complexity. Moreover, the detection and
recognition accuracy of fruits and vegetables are easily affected by the growth environments
and lighting conditions.
3.4. Techniques Based on AdaBoost Algorithm
The AdaBoost algorithm is a widely used supervised learning method. It is commonly
used in two-class problems, multi-class single-label problems, multi-class multi-label
problems, large-class single-label problems, and regression problems. Different classiﬁers
(weak classiﬁers) are trained using the same training set, and then these weak classiﬁers are
pooled to form a stronger ﬁnal classiﬁer (strong classiﬁer). Techniques for object detection
and recognition of fruits and vegetables based on the AdaBoost algorithm are widely
used. Kumar et al. [93] introduced a novel plant species classiﬁer based on the extraction
of morphological features using a Multilayer Perceptron with the AdaBoost algorithm.
In addition, they tested the classiﬁcation accuracy of different classiﬁers, such as KNN,
decision tree, and the Multilayer Perceptron. The research results showed that a precision
rate of 95.42% was achieved using the proposed machine learning classiﬁer, which is one of
the state-of-the-art algorithms.
Ling et al. [94] proposed a tomato detection method combining an AdaBoost classiﬁer
and color analysis, and applied them to the harvesting robot. The research results showed
that the ripe tomato detection success rate was about 95%., and 5% of the ripe tomatoes
missed detection because of the occluding leaves. When the leaf occlusion area is more
than 50% of the tomato area, the target tomato might not be detected. The method also has
good robustness, and can meet the challenges of environmental factors such as changing
lighting conditions and partial occlusions and overlaps. The speed of the method is about
10 fps, which is enough for the harvesting robot to operate in real time.
To further cope with challenges such as changing lighting conditions, cluttered back-
grounds, and cluster occlusions, Lin and Zou [62] also proposed a novel segmentation
method using the AdaBoost classiﬁer and texture–color features. The research results
showed that the method achieved a precision of 0.867 and recall of 0.768. However, the
method may over-segment images because the LM ﬁlter bank tends to be inﬂuenced by
illumination changes. A possible solution is to investigate an illumination invariant version
of an LM ﬁlter bank.
In general, the advantages of techniques for object detection and recognition of fruits
and vegetables based on the AdaBoost algorithm are that they can use different classiﬁcation
algorithms as weak classiﬁers and make good use of weak classiﬁers for cascading, with
high detection and recognition accuracy. The disadvantages are that during the training
process, the AdaBoost algorithm will cause the weight of difﬁcult samples to exponentially
increase, and the training will be biased towards such difﬁcult samples, which makes the
AdaBoost algorithm vulnerable to noise interference. In addition, the AdaBoost algorithm
relies on weak classiﬁers, which often have a long training time.
3.5. Techniques Based on Decision Tree Algorithm
The decision tree algorithm is a widely used supervised learning method. It is com-
monly used in decision-making problems. It starts from the root node. Then, the corre-

Agronomy 2023, 13, 639
20 of 29
sponding features in the item to be classiﬁed are tested and the output branches are selected
according to their values until the leaf node is reached. Finally, the category stored in the
leaf node is used as the decision result. Wajid et al. [105] investigated the applicability
and performance of various classiﬁcation algorithms including Naïve Bayes, Artiﬁcial
Neural Networks, and decision trees. The research results showed that the decision tree
classiﬁcation method performs better than the other methods for orange detection. The
results recorded for the accuracy, precision, and sensitivity using this method were 93.13%,
93.45%, and 93.24%, respectively. In addition, in order to investigate the cost of imple-
mentation relative to the classiﬁcation performance, Kuang, et al. [103] compared two
types of machine learning algorithms (the multivariate alternating decision tree and the
deep-learning-based kiwifruit classiﬁers). The research results showed that traditional
decision tree classiﬁers can achieve comparable classiﬁcation performance at a fraction of
the cost.
Ma et al. [104] proposed a segmentation method based on a decision tree which is
constructed by a two-step coarse-to-ﬁne procedure. Firstly, a coarse decision tree is built
by the CART (Classiﬁcation and Regression Tree) algorithm with a feature subset. The
feature subset consists of color features that are selected by Pearson’s Rank correlations.
Then, the coarse decision tree is optimized by pruning. Using the optimized decision tree,
segmentation of images is achieved by conducting pixel-wise classiﬁcation. Abd al karim
and Karim [100] also proposed a decision tree classiﬁer to classify fruit types. The Fruits
360 dataset was used, where 70% of the dataset was used in the training phase and 30%
was used in the testing phase. Chen et al. [102] proposed a classiﬁcation method for kernel
and impurity particles using the decision tree algorithm.
In general, the advantages of techniques for object detection and recognition of fruits
and vegetables based on the decision tree algorithm are that they enumerate the full range
of feasible solutions to the decision problem, and the expected values of each feasible
solution in various states. They can visually show the decision process of the whole
decision problem at different stages in time and in the decision sequence. When applied to
a complex multi-stage decision-making problem, the stages are obvious and the hierarchy is
clear, so that various factors can be thoughtfully considered, which is conducive to making
the right decision. The disadvantages are that they are easy to overﬁt and do not perform
well when dealing with data that has relatively strong feature correlations. In addition,
for data with an inconsistent number of samples in each category, the result gained in the
decision tree is biased towards those features with more values.
3.6. Techniques Based on Bayesian Algorithm
The Bayesian algorithm is a widely used supervised learning method. It classiﬁes
based on minimizing Bayesian risk, minimizing probability of error, or maximizing poste-
rior probability. It is commonly used in large-scale databases. The Bayesian algorithm was
proposed because it has high accuracy and computational speed when applied to a large
number of databases, is robust to isolated noise points, and only requires a small training
set to estimate the parameters needed for classiﬁcation.
Kusuma and Setiadi [113] proposed a classiﬁcation method using feature histogram
extraction and a Naïve Bayes Classiﬁer for tomato recognition. In addition, Sari, et al. [110]
proposed a classiﬁcation method for papaya types based on leaf images using a Naive
Bayes classiﬁer and LBP feature extraction. In the research of Reyes et al. [108], the method
based on the Bayesian algorithm, along with the off-the-shelf hardware, made it possible
to perform an optimal classiﬁcation of cherries in real time to meet international fruit
quality standards.
In general, the advantages of techniques for object detection and recognition of fruits
and vegetables based on Bayesian algorithms are the simplicity of recognition and classiﬁ-
cation processes, the fast response time, the better performance for small-scale data, the
ability to handle multiple classiﬁcation tasks, and the suitability for incremental training.
The disadvantage is that the prior probabilities need to be calculated. Furthermore, the

Agronomy 2023, 13, 639
21 of 29
recognition performance is affected by the fact that the prior probabilities depend on the
target image features. In addition, the recognition function may fail for data (variable
features) that do not appear in the training set.
4. Challenges and Further Research
As summarized and reviewed in this article, various techniques for object detection
and recognition of fruits and vegetables, each with their own pros and cons, have been
investigated in the past. However, it is difﬁcult to ﬁnd studies reporting the absolute
accuracy of each technique and comparisons of performance between those techniques in
the same environment.
Therefore, open publishing of all reference datasets and all code is necessary. Some
frequently used image databases of fruits and vegetables are shown in Table 4. As much
as possible, further research should be carried out based on these open datasets to help
compare different techniques. Moreover, the international community might consider
continually providing and updating quality reference datasets.
Table 4. Some frequently used image databases of crops: fruits and vegetables.
Datasets
Samples
Species
Web-Link
Year
Total
Training Sets
Testing Sets
Fruits-360
90,380
67,692
22,688
131 (100 ×
100 pixels)
https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/moltean/fruits
(accessed on 16 February 2023)
2020
Fruit-A
22,495
16,854
5641
33 (100 ×
100 pixels)
https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/
sshikamaru/fruit-recognition (accessed on
16 February 2023)
2022
Fruit-B
21,000
15,000
vail: 3000
text: 3000
15 (224 ×
224 pixels)
https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/
misrakahmed/vegetable-image-dataset
(accessed on 16 February 2023)
2021
Fruit quality
classiﬁcation
19,526
-
-
18 (256 ×
256/192 pixels)
https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/ryandpark/
fruit-quality-classiﬁcation
(accessed on 16 February 2023)
2022
Fresh and
rotten fruits
13,599
10,901
2698
6
https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/sriramr/
fruits-fresh-and-rotten-for-classiﬁcation
(accessed on 16 February 2023)
2019
Lemon
quality
control
dataset
2533
-
-
3 (256 ×
256 pixels)
https://github.com/robotduinom/lemon_dataset
(accessed on 16 February 2023)
2022
Pistachio
2148
-
-
2
https://www.muratkoklu.com/datasets/
(accessed on 16 February 2023)
2022
Grapevine
leaves dataset
500
-
-
5
2022
Apple
1300
1000
300
2
https://data.nal.usda.gov/search/type/dataset
(accessed on 16 February 2023)
2020
Cauliﬂower
656
-
-
4
https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/
noamaanabdulazeem/cauliﬂower-dataset
(accessed on 16 February 2023)
2022
Sweet pepper
and peduncle
segmentation
620
-
-
8
https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/lemontyc/
sweet-pepper (accessed on 16 February 2023)
2021
In addition, there are many factors leading to the low accuracy, slow speed, and
poor robustness of object detection and recognition of fruit and vegetable harvesting
robots. They can be summarized into the following aspects: (1) similar backgrounds;
(2) clustered/partially occluded/swaying fruits; (3) sensitivity to changing lighting condi-
tions; (4) night image recognition; (5) blur and noise in images; (6) high computation time
and real-time limitations; and (7) generalization ability. To be more speciﬁc:
(1) Object detection and recognition of fruits and vegetables require fast response
capability to improve the harvesting efﬁciency. The current mainstream object detection

Agronomy 2023, 13, 639
22 of 29
and recognition techniques based on digital image processing and traditional machine
learning have certain limitations, although they may have good accuracy performance. In
complex environments, inﬂuenced by many factors such as changing lighting conditions
and growth states of fruits, the more factors the method considers, the more complex the
method, and the longer the running computation time. This will lead to low real-time
performance for vision systems.
(2) When fruit and vegetable harvesting robots work, they can only detect and recog-
nize the target objects according to the pre-trained model. In the actual harvesting process,
there is often more than one kind of target object that needs to be harvested. In addition, the
harvesting robots are only used during the harvesting season of the year, and are idle for the
rest of the year, due to the obvious seasonality and timeliness of fruit harvesting, thus lead-
ing to the relatively poorer economics of harvesting robots. Therefore, the generalization
ability of the algorithms still needs to be enhanced to achieve the detection and recognition
of multiple kinds of fruits and vegetables. Future research could make the algorithms
generalizable (i.e., derive the ability to recognize fruits with similar characteristics based
on a kind of target object). In addition, the night image recognition algorithm could be
required for vision systems, where the harvesting robots can work during the day, and then
continue at night.
(3) Object detection and recognition of fruits and vegetables require the detection
and recognition of clustered/partially occluded/swaying fruits. However, the presence
of clustered/partially occluded/swaying parts may cause confusion in images, which is
currently a greater challenge for detection and recognition in unstructured environments.
A popular method is the Circular Hough Transform, which is more effective for round
objects such as apples, oranges, and tomatoes. However, research results showed that
this method is not only prone to false positives generated by the contours of other objects,
such as leaves, but also has a long computation time. Another popular method is to use a
blowing device to avoid leaf occlusions and to move adjacent fruits to one side. However,
this method will increase the weight of end-effectors of harvesting robots, and may not
be applicable to all kinds of crops. Future research could focus on agricultural operations,
including tree pruning and pollination methods, to improve the visibility of target fruits,
which may help to improve detection and recognition accuracy.
As summarized and reviewed in this article, methods based on multi-feature fusion
and the SVM algorithm achieve a better accuracy rate in addressing these challenges.
Furthermore, methods based on multi-algorithm fusion should be paid more attention.
In addition, further research should focus on solving these challenges and improving
the accuracy, speed, robustness, and generalization of vision systems, while reducing the
overall complexity and cost. The optimization of network models, the accuracy of sensing
systems, multi-sensor data fusion, fault-tolerant computing of machine vision, and decision
making using a big data cloud platform may be key breakthroughs for further techniques
for object detection and recognition of fruits and vegetables.
5. Conclusions
The intelligent harvesting robot is one of the most important artiﬁcial intelligence
(AI) robots used for fruit and vegetable harvesting in modern agriculture. The excellent
vision system can greatly promote the environmental perception ability of the harvesting
robot. However, current visual systems of harvesting robots still cannot fully meet the
requirements of commercialization. This article summarizes and reviews the progress in
developing techniques for object detection and recognition of fruit and vegetable harvesting
robots based on digital image processing and traditional machine learning. Although there
previous reviews of techniques for object detection and recognition of fruits and vegetables
have been published, the contributions of this work are: (1) systematic summary of the
techniques developed in recent years for object detection and recognition of fruit and
vegetable harvesting robots based on digital image processing and traditional machine
learning; (2) systematic analysis of the advantages, disadvantages, and applicability of

Agronomy 2023, 13, 639
23 of 29
various techniques; and (3) demonstration of the current challenges and future potential
developments. Through this clearer and more comprehensive overview and review, we aim
to provide a reference for future research on techniques for object detection and recognition
of fruit and vegetable harvesting robots based on digital image processing and traditional
machine learning.
The current challenges of techniques for object detection and recognition of fruits
and vegetables are mainly the similar backgrounds, clustered/partially occluded/swaying
fruits, sensitivity to changing lighting conditions, night image recognition, blur and noise
in images, high computation time and real-time limitations, and generalization ability.
Techniques for object detection and recognition of fruit and vegetable harvesting
robots based on digital image processing can be subdivided into color feature (RGB, HSV,
HSI, Lab, HSB, YCbCr)-based methods, shape feature-based methods, texture feature-based
methods, and multi-feature fusion-based methods.
As summarized and reviewed in this article, techniques based on digital image pro-
cessing require precise information about the target fruit features, which are usually used
for object detection and recognition of fruits and vegetables based on features such as
colors, shapes, and textures. However, in complex environments, these features of the
target objects are affected by non-controllable factors, resulting in low accuracy, slow speed,
and poor robustness of object detection and recognition of fruits and vegetables. Methods
based on multi-feature fusion can improve the accuracy and robustness of object detection
and recognition of fruits and vegetables. However, it is important to determine which
features to integrate; for example, Lab color space could be used more for low-quality
images because it is more robust to noise in images. In addition, the combination of color
with GLCM texture features has proven to be more effective than combined color and LBP
texture features.
Object detection and recognition techniques of fruit and vegetable harvesting robots
based on traditional machine learning can be subdivided into K-means clustering algorithm-
based methods, SVM algorithm-based methods, KNN clustering algorithm-based methods,
AdaBoost algorithm-based methods, decision tree algorithm-based methods, and Bayesian
algorithm-based methods.
In general, techniques based on traditional machine learning have good performance,
but they require various parameters to be set in advance, where the parameters set in
advance have a large impact on recognition accuracy. For classiﬁers, prior probabilities
from the training set need to be obtained in advance, and the classiﬁcation accuracy is
affected by the weights of difﬁcult to classify samples. As summarized and reviewed in
this article, methods based on the SVM algorithm achieve a better accuracy rate. However,
the current mainstream image segmentation approaches and classiﬁers based on traditional
machine learning are often solutions for speciﬁc scenes. They usually lack generality and
are less effective for multiple classiﬁcation problems. They are mainly applicable to the
detection and recognition of a single species in greenhouse environments. Methods based
on multi-algorithm fusion should be paid more attention. This may be a breakthrough for
future techniques for object detection and recognition of fruits and vegetables.
Further research into and development of techniques for object detection and recog-
nition for fruit and vegetable harvesting robots are necessary. Commercial applications
of harvesting robots need to be further addressed through integrated horticultural and
engineering approaches for improved image segmentation, and for increased overall per-
formance of crop detection and recognition.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, F.X. and Y.C.; methodology, F.X. and Y.C.; analysis, F.X.;
investigation, F.X., Y.C., X.L., G.X. and H.W.; resources, F.X., H.W. and Y.L.; data curation, F.X.;
writing—original draft preparation, F.X.; writing—review and editing, F.X., H.W. and Y.L.; visualiza-
tion, F.X.; supervision, H.W. and Y.L.; project administration, F.X., H.W. and Y.L.; funding acquisition,
H.W. and Y.L. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.

Agronomy 2023, 13, 639
24 of 29
Funding: This research was funded by Natural Science Foundation of Heilongjiang Province of China
(LH2020C047), Northeast Forestry University Foundation (2572022DP01) and China Postdoctoral
Science Foundation (2019T120248, 2017M611338).
Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
References
1.
Tomato Production. 2020. Available online: https://ourworldindata.org/grapher/tomato-production (accessed on 1 October 2022).
2.
FAOSTAT. Available online: https://www.fao.org/faostat/en/#data/QCL (accessed on 1 October 2022).
3.
Apple Production. 2020. Available online: https://ourworldindata.org/grapher/apple-production (accessed on 1 October 2022).
4.
Strawberry—Wikipedia. Available online: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Strawberry (accessed on 1 October 2022).
5.
Zhang, K.; Lammers, K.; Chu, P.; Li, Z.; Lu, R. System Design and Control of an Apple Harvesting Robot. Mechatronics 2021, 79,
102644. [CrossRef]
6.
Xiong, Y.; Ge, Y.; Grimstad, L.; From, P.J. An Autonomous Strawberry-Harvesting Robot: Design, Development, Integration, and
Field Evaluation. J. Field Robot. 2020, 37, 202–224. [CrossRef]
7.
Xiong, Y.; Peng, C.; Grimstad, L.; From, P.J.; Isler, V. Development and Field Evaluation of a Strawberry Harvesting Robot with a
Cable-Driven Gripper. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2019, 157, 392–402. [CrossRef]
8.
Anjom, F.K.; Vougioukas, S.G.; Slaughter, D.C. Development of a Linear Mixed Model to Predict the Picking Time in Strawberry
Harvesting Processes. Biosyst. Eng. 2018, 166, 76–89. [CrossRef]
9.
Silwal, A.; Davidson, J.R.; Karkee, M.; Mo, C.; Zhang, Q.; Lewis, K. Design, Integration, and Field Evaluation of a Robotic Apple
Harvester. J. Field Robot. 2017, 34, 1140–1159. [CrossRef]
10.
Wang, Z.; Xun, Y.; Wang, Y.; Yang, Q. Review of Smart Robots for Fruit and Vegetable Picking in Agriculture. Int. J. Agric. Biol.
Eng. 2022, 15, 33–54. [CrossRef]
11.
Zhou, H.; Wang, X.; Au, W.; Kang, H.; Chen, C. Intelligent Robots for Fruit Harvesting: Recent Developments and Future
Challenges. Precis. Agric. 2022, 23, 1856–1907. [CrossRef]
12.
Brown, J.; Sukkarieh, S. Design and Evaluation of a Modular Robotic Plum Harvesting System Utilizing Soft Components. J. Field
Robot. 2021, 38, 289–306. [CrossRef]
13.
Yan, B.; Fan, P.; Lei, X.; Liu, Z.; Yang, F. A Real-Time Apple Targets Detection Method for Picking Robot Based on Improved
YOLOv5. Remote Sens. 2021, 13, 1619. [CrossRef]
14.
He, L.; Fu, H.; Karkee, M.; Zhang, Q. Effect of Fruit Location on Apple Detachment with Mechanical Shaking. Biosyst. Eng. 2017,
157, 63–71. [CrossRef]
15.
Ji, W.; Zhao, D.; Cheng, F.; Xu, B.; Zhang, Y.; Wang, J. Automatic Recognition Vision System Guided for Apple Harvesting Robot.
Comput. Electr. Eng. 2012, 38, 1186–1195. [CrossRef]
16.
Zhao, D.; Lv, J.; Ji, W.; Zhang, Y.; Chen, Y. Design and Control of an Apple Harvesting Robot. Biosyst. Eng. 2011, 110, 112–122. [CrossRef]
17.
Arad, B.; Balendonck, J.; Barth, R.; Ben-Shahar, O.; Edan, Y.; Hellström, T.; Hemming, J.; Kurtser, P.; Ringdahl, O.; Tielen, T.; et al.
Development of a Sweet Pepper Harvesting Robot. J. Field Robot. 2020, 37, 1027–1039. [CrossRef]
18.
Lehnert, C.; English, A.; McCool, C.; Tow, A.W.; Perez, T. Autonomous Sweet Pepper Harvesting for Protected Cropping Systems.
IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett. 2017, 2, 872–879. [CrossRef]
19.
Bac, C.W.; Hemming, J.; Van Henten, E.J. Stem Localization of Sweet-Pepper Plants Using the Support Wire as a Visual Cue.
Comput. Electron. Agric. 2014, 105, 111–120. [CrossRef]
20.
Hayashi, S.; Shigematsu, K.; Yamamoto, S.; Kobayashi, K.; Kohno, Y.; Kamata, J.; Kurita, M. Evaluation of a Strawberry-Harvesting
Robot in a Field Test. Biosyst. Eng. 2010, 105, 160–171. [CrossRef]
21.
Xiong, J.; He, Z.; Lin, R.; Liu, Z.; Bu, R.; Yang, Z.; Peng, H.; Zou, X. Visual Positioning Technology of Picking Robots for Dynamic
Litchi Clusters with Disturbance. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2018, 151, 226–237. [CrossRef]
22.
Feng, Q.; Zou, W.; Fan, P.; Zhang, C.; Wang, X. Design and Test of Robotic Harvesting System for Cherry Tomato. Int. J. Agric.
Biol. Eng. 2018, 11, 96–100. [CrossRef]
23.
Kondo, N.; Yata, K.; Iida, M.; Shiigi, T.; Monta, M.; Kurita, M.; Omori, H. Development of an End-Effector for a Tomato Cluster
Harvesting Robot. Eng. Agric. Environ. Food 2010, 3, 20–24. [CrossRef]
24.
Williams, H.A.M.; Jones, M.H.; Nejati, M.; Seabright, M.J.; Bell, J.; Penhall, N.D.; Barnett, J.J.; Duke, M.D.; Scarfe, A.J.; Ahn, H.S.;
et al. Robotic Kiwifruit Harvesting Using Machine Vision, Convolutional Neural Networks, and Robotic Arms. Biosyst. Eng.
2019, 181, 140–156. [CrossRef]
25.
Yang, Q.; Chen, C.; Dai, J.; Xun, Y.; Bao, G. Tracking and Recognition Algorithm for a Robot Harvesting Oscillating Apples. Int. J.
Agric. Biol. Eng. 2020, 13, 163–170. [CrossRef]
26.
Zemmour, E.; Kurtser, P.; Edan, Y. Automatic Parameter Tuning for Adaptive Thresholding in Fruit Detection. Sensors 2019, 19,
2130. [CrossRef]
27.
Lv, J.; Wang, Y.; Xu, L.; Gu, Y.; Zou, L.; Yang, B.; Ma, Z. A Method to Obtain the Near-Large Fruit from Apple Image in Orchard
for Single-Arm Apple Harvesting Robot. Sci. Hortic. 2019, 257, 108758. [CrossRef]

Agronomy 2023, 13, 639
25 of 29
28.
Goel, N.; Sehgal, P. Fuzzy Classiﬁcation of Pre-Harvest Tomatoes for Ripeness Estimation—An Approach Based on Automatic
Rule Learning Using Decision Tree. Appl. Soft Comput. 2015, 36, 45–56. [CrossRef]
29.
Yu, X.; Fan, Z.; Wang, X.; Wan, H.; Wang, P.; Zeng, X.; Jia, F. A Lab-Customized Autonomous Humanoid Apple Harvesting Robot.
Comput. Electr. Eng. 2021, 96, 107459. [CrossRef]
30.
Sethy, P.K.; Routray, B.; Behera, S.K. Detection and Counting of Marigold Flower Using Image Processing Technique. In Advances
in Computer, Communication and Control, 2nd ed.; Biswas, U., Banerjee, A., Pal, S., Biswas, A., Sarkar, D., Haldar, S., Eds.; Springer:
Singapore, 2019; Volume 41, pp. 87–93. [CrossRef]
31.
Malik, M.H.; Zhang, T.; Li, H.; Zhang, M.; Shabbir, S.; Saeed, A. Mature Tomato Fruit Detection Algorithm Based on Improved
HSV and Watershed Algorithm. IFAC-Paper 2018, 51, 431–436. [CrossRef]
32.
Muthukrishnan, V.; Ramasamy, S.; Damodaran, N. Disease Recognition in Philodendron Leaf Using Image Processing Technique.
Environ. Sci. Pollut. Res. 2021, 28, 67321–67330. [CrossRef]
33.
Nanehkaran, Y.A.; Zhang, D.; Chen, J.; Tian, Y.; Al-Nabhan, N. Recognition of Plant Leaf Diseases Based on Computer Vision. J.
Ambient. Intell. Humaniz. Comput. 2020, 1–18. [CrossRef]
34.
Ratprakhon, K.; Neubauer, W.; Riehn, K.; Fritsche, J.; Rohn, S. Developing an Automatic Color Determination Procedure for the Quality
Assessment of Mangos (Mangifera Indica) Using a CCD Camera and Color Standards. Foods 2020, 9, 1709. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
35.
Bifﬁ, L.J.; Mitishita, E.A.; Liesenberg, V.; Centeno, J.A.S.; Schimalski, M.B.; Rufato, L. Evaluating the Performance of a Semi-
Automatic Apple Fruit Detection in a High-Density Orchard System Using Low-Cost Digital RGB Imaging Sensor. Bull. Geod. Sci.
2021, 27, 1–20. [CrossRef]
36.
Tan, K.; Lee, W.S.; Gan, H.; Wang, S. Recognising Blueberry Fruit of Different Maturity Using Histogram Oriented Gradients and
Colour Features in Outdoor Scenes. Biosyst. Eng. 2018, 176, 59–72. [CrossRef]
37.
Lin, G.; Tang, Y.; Zou, X.; Cheng, J.; Xiong, J. Fruit Detection in Natural Environment Using Partial Shape Matching and
Probabilistic Hough Transform. Precis. Agric. 2020, 21, 160–177. [CrossRef]
38.
Sun, S.; Jiang, M.; He, D.; Long, Y.; Song, H. Recognition of Green Apples in an Orchard Environment by Combining the GrabCut
Model and Ncut Algorithm. Biosyst. Eng. 2019, 187, 201–213. [CrossRef]
39.
Lu, J.; Lee, W.S.; Gan, H.; Hu, X. Immature Citrus Fruit Detection Based on Local Binary Pattern Feature and Hierarchical Contour
Analysis. Biosyst. Eng. 2018, 171, 78–90. [CrossRef]
40.
Zhuang, J.J.; Luo, S.M.; Hou, C.J.; Tang, Y.; He, Y.; Xue, X.Y. Detection of Orchard Citrus Fruits Using a Monocular Machine
Vision-Based Method for Automatic Fruit Picking Applications. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2018, 152, 64–73. [CrossRef]
41.
Oo, L.M.; Aung, N.Z. A Simple and Efﬁcient Method for Automatic Strawberry Shape and Size Estimation and Classiﬁcation.
Biosyst. Eng. 2018, 170, 96–107. [CrossRef]
42.
Jana, S.; Parekh, R. Shape-Based Fruit Recognition and Classiﬁcation. In Proceedings of the International Conference on
Computational Intelligence, Communications, and Business Analytics, Kolkata, India, 24–25 March 2017. [CrossRef]
43.
Linker, R.; Cohen, O.; Naor, A. Determination of the Number of Green Apples in RGB Images Recorded in Orchards. Comput.
Electron. Agric. 2012, 81, 45–47. [CrossRef]
44.
Kurtulmus, F.; Lee, W.S.; Vardar, A. Green Citrus Detection Using ‘Eigenfruit’, Color and Circular Gabor Texture Features under
Natural Outdoor Conditions. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2011, 78, 140–149. [CrossRef]
45.
Hannan, M.W.; Burks, T.F.; Bulanon, D.M. A Machine Vision Algorithm Combining Adaptive Segmentation and Shape Analysis
for Orange Fruit Detection. Agric. Eng. Int. CIGR J. 2009, XI, 1281.
46.
Safren, O.; Alchanatis, V.; Ostrovsky, V.; Levi, O. Detection of Green Apples in Hyperspectral Images of Apple-Tree Foliage Using
Machine Vision. Trans. Am. Soc. Agric. Biol. Eng. 2007, 50, 2303–2313. [CrossRef]
47.
Rahman, S.U.; Alam, F.; Ahmad, N.; Arshad, S. Image Processing Based System for the Detection, Identiﬁcation and Treatment of
Tomato Leaf Diseases. Multimed. Tools Appl. 2022, 82, 9431–9445. [CrossRef]
48.
Hameed, K.; Chai, D.; Rassau, A. Texture-Based Latent Space Disentanglement for Enhancement of a Training Dataset for
ANN-Based Classiﬁcation of Fruit and Vegetables. Inf. Process. Agric. 2021, 10, 85–105. [CrossRef]
49.
Trey, Z.F.; Goore, B.T.; Bagui, K.O.; Tiebre, M.S. Classiﬁcation of Plants into Families Based on Leaf Texture. Int. J. Comput. Sci.
Netw. Secur. 2021, 21, 205–211. [CrossRef]
50.
Pulido, C.; Solaque, L.; Velasco, N. Weed Recognition by SVM Texture Feature Classiﬁcation in Outdoor Vegetable Crops Images.
Ing. E Investig. 2017, 37, 68–74. [CrossRef]
51.
Chaivivatrakul, S.; Dailey, M.N. Texture-Based Fruit Detection. Precis. Agric. 2014, 15, 662–683. [CrossRef]
52.
Rakun, J.; Stajnko, D.; Zazula, D. Detecting Fruits in Natural Scenes by Using Spatial-Frequency Based Texture Analysis and
Multiview Geometry. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2011, 76, 80–88. [CrossRef]
53.
Septiarini, A.; Sunyoto, A.; Hamdani, H.; Kasim, A.A.; Utaminingrum, F.; Hatta, H.R. Machine Vision for the Maturity Classiﬁca-
tion of Oil Palm Fresh Fruit Bunches Based on Color and Texture Features. Sci. Hortic. 2021, 286, 110245. [CrossRef]
54.
Bhargava, A.; Bansal, A. Classification and Grading of Multiple Varieties of Apple Fruit. Food Anal. Methods 2021, 14, 1359–1368. [CrossRef]
55.
Yu, L.; Xiong, J.; Fang, X.; Yang, Z.; Chen, Y.; Lin, X.; Chen, S. A Litchi Fruit Recognition Method in a Natural Environment Using
RGB-D Images. Biosyst. Eng. 2021, 204, 50–63. [CrossRef]
56.
Basavaiah, J.; Anthony, A.A. Tomato Leaf Disease Classiﬁcation Using Multiple Feature Extraction Techniques. Wirel. Pers.
Commun. 2020, 115, 633–651. [CrossRef]

Agronomy 2023, 13, 639
26 of 29
57.
Azarmdel, H.; Jahanbakhshi, A.; Mohtasebi, S.S.; Muñoz, A.R. Evaluation of Image Processing Technique as an Expert System in
Mulberry Fruit Grading Based on Ripeness Level Using Artiﬁcial Neural Networks (ANNs) and Support Vector Machine (SVM).
Postharvest Biol. Technol. 2020, 166, 111201. [CrossRef]
58.
Liu, T.; Ehsani, R.; Toudeshki, A.; Zou, X.; Wang, H. Identifying Immature and Mature Pomelo Fruits in Trees by Elliptical Model
Fitting in the Cr–Cb Color Space. Precis. Agric. 2019, 20, 138–156. [CrossRef]
59.
Wu, J.; Zhang, B.; Zhou, J.; Xiong, Y.; Gu, B.; Yang, X. Automatic Recognition of Ripening Tomatoes by Combining Multi-Feature
Fusion with a Bi-Layer Classiﬁcation Strategy for Harvesting Robots. Sensors 2019, 19, 612. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
60.
Liu, X.; Zhao, D.; Jia, W.; Ji, W.; Sun, Y. A Detection Method for Apple Fruits Based on Color and Shape Features. IEEE Access
2019, 7, 67923–67933. [CrossRef]
61.
Mustaffa, M.R.; Yi, N.X.; Abdullah, L.N.; Nasharuddin, N.A. Durian Recognition Based on Multiple Features and Linear
Discriminant Analysis. Malays. J. Comput. Sci. 2018, 57–72. [CrossRef]
62.
Lin, G.; Zou, X. Citrus Segmentation for Automatic Harvester Combined with AdaBoost Classiﬁer and Leung-Malik Filter Bank.
IFAC-Paper 2018, 51, 379–383. [CrossRef]
63.
Madgi, M.; Danti, A. An Enhanced Classiﬁcation of Indian Vegetables Using Combined Color and Texture Features. Int. J. Comput.
Eng. Appl. 2018, XII(III), 1–8.
64.
Yamamoto, K.; Guo, W.; Yoshioka, Y.; Ninomiya, S. On Plant Detection of Intact Tomato Fruits Using Image Analysis and Machine
Learning Methods. Sensors 2014, 14, 12191–12206. [CrossRef]
65.
Payne, A.; Walsh, K.; Subedi, P.; Jarvis, D. Estimating Mango Crop Yield Using Image Analysis Using Fruit at ‘Stone Hardening’
Stage and Night Time Imaging. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2014, 100, 160–167. [CrossRef]
66.
Payne, A.B.; Walsh, K.B.; Subedi, P.P.; Jarvis, D. Estimation of Mango Crop Yield Using Image Analysis—Segmentation Method.
Comput. Electron. Agric. 2013, 91, 57–64. [CrossRef]
67.
Stajnko, D.; Rakun, J.; Blanke, M. Modelling Apple Fruit Yield Using Image Analysis for Fruit Colour, Shape and Texture. Eur. J.
Hortic. Sci. 2009, 74, 260–267.
68.
Fan, P.; Lang, G.; Guo, P.; Liu, Z.; Yang, F.; Yan, B.; Lei, X. Multi-Feature Patch-Based Segmentation Technique in the Gray-Centered
RGB Color Space for Improved Apple Target Recognition. Agriculture 2021, 11, 273. [CrossRef]
69.
Habib, M.T.; Majumder, A.; Jakaria, A.Z.M.; Akter, M.; Uddin, M.S.; Ahmed, F. Machine Vision Based Papaya Disease Recognition.
J. King Saud Univ. Comput. Inf. Sci. 2020, 32, 300–309. [CrossRef]
70.
Jiao, Y.; Luo, R.; Li, Q.; Deng, X.; Yin, X.; Ruan, C.; Jia, W. Detection and Localization of Overlapped Fruits Application in an
Apple Harvesting Robot. Electronics 2020, 9, 1023. [CrossRef]
71.
Sun, S.; Song, H.; He, D.; Long, Y. An Adaptive Segmentation Method Combining MSRCR and Mean Shift Algorithm with
K-Means Correction of Green Apples in Natural Environment. Inf. Process. Agric. 2019, 6, 200–215. [CrossRef]
72.
Luo, L.; Tang, Y.; Lu, Q.; Chen, X.; Zhang, P.; Zou, X. A Vision Methodology for Harvesting Robot to Detect Cutting Points on
Peduncles of Double Overlapping Grape Clusters in a Vineyard. Comput. Ind. 2018, 99, 130–139. [CrossRef]
73.
Moallem, P.; Serajoddin, A.; Pourghassem, H. Computer Vision-Based Apple Grading for Golden Delicious Apples Based on
Surface Features. Inf. Process. Agric. 2017, 4, 33–40. [CrossRef]
74.
Wang, C.; Tang, Y.; Zou, X.; SiTu, W.; Feng, W. A Robust Fruit Image Segmentation Algorithm against Varying Illumination for
Vision System of Fruit Harvesting Robot. Optik 2017, 131, 626–631. [CrossRef]
75.
Wang, C.; Zou, X.; Tang, Y.; Luo, L.; Feng, W. Localisation of Litchi in an Unstructured Environment Using Binocular Stereo
Vision. Biosyst. Eng. 2016, 145, 39–51. [CrossRef]
76.
Zhang, Z.; Zhou, J.; Yan, Z.; Wang, K.; Mao, J.; Jiang, Z. Hardness Recognition of Fruits and Vegetables Based on Tactile Array
Information of Manipulator. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2021, 181, 105959. [CrossRef]
77.
Sepúlveda, D.; Fernández, R.; Navas, E.; Armada, M.; González-De-Santos, P. Robotic Aubergine Harvesting Using Dual-Arm
Manipulation. IEEE Access 2020, 8, 121889–121904. [CrossRef]
78.
Patel, C.C.; Chaudhari, V.K. Comparative Analysis of Fruit Categorization Using Different Classiﬁers. Adv. Eng. Optim. Through
Intell. Tech. 2020, 949, 153–164. [CrossRef]
79.
Dhakshina Kumar, S.; Esakkirajan, S.; Bama, S.; Keerthiveena, B. A Microcontroller Based Machine Vision Approach for Tomato
Grading and Sorting Using SVM Classiﬁer. Microprocess. Microsyst. 2020, 76, 103090. [CrossRef]
80.
Yang, Q.; Luo, S.; Chang, C.; Xun, Y.; Bao, G. Segmentation Algorithm for Hangzhou White Chrysanthemums Based on Least
Squares Support Vector Machine. Int. J. Agric. Biol. Eng. 2019, 12, 127–134. [CrossRef]
81.
Ji, W.; Chen, G.; Xu, B.; Meng, X.; Zhao, D. Recognition Method of Green Pepper in Greenhouse Based on Least-Squares Support
Vector Machine Optimized by the Improved Particle Swarm Optimization. IEEE Access 2019, 7, 119742–119754. [CrossRef]
82.
Singh, S.; Singh, N.P. Machine Learning-Based Classiﬁcation of Good and Rotten Apple. In Recent Trends in Communication,
Computing, and Electronics, 2nd ed.; Khare, A., Tiwary, U.S., Sethi, I.K., Singh, N., Eds.; Springer: Singapore, 2019; Volume 524, pp.
377–386. [CrossRef]
83.
Liu, G.; Mao, S.; Kim, J.H. A Mature-Tomato Detection Algorithm Using Machine Learning and Color Analysis. Sensors 2019, 19,
2023. [CrossRef]
84.
Lv, Q.; Cai, J.; Liu, B.; Deng, L.; Zhang, Y. Identiﬁcation of Fruit and Branch in Natural Scenes for Citrus Harvesting Robot Using
Machine Vision and Support Vector Machine. Int. J. Agric. Biol. Eng. 2014, 7, 115–121. [CrossRef]

Agronomy 2023, 13, 639
27 of 29
85.
Sarimole, F.M.; Rosiana, A. Classiﬁcation of Maturity Levels in Areca Fruit Based on HSV Image Using the KNN Method. J. Appl.
Eng. Technol. Sci. 2022, 4, 64–73. [CrossRef]
86.
Sarimole, F.M.; Fadillah, M.I. Classiﬁcation of Guarantee Fruit Murability Based on HSV Image With K-Nearest Neighbor. J. Appl.
Eng. Technol. Sci. 2022, 4, 48–57. [CrossRef]
87.
Behera, S.K.; Rath, A.K.; Sethy, P.K. Maturity Status Classiﬁcation of Papaya Fruits Based on Machine Learning and Transfer
Learning Approach. Inf. Process. Agric. 2021, 8, 244–250. [CrossRef]
88.
Ghazal, S.; Qureshi, W.S.; Khan, U.S.; Iqbal, J.; Rashid, N.; Tiwana, M.I. Analysis of Visual Features and Classiﬁers for Fruit
Classiﬁcation Problem. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2021, 187, 106267. [CrossRef]
89.
Suban, I.B.; Paramartha, A.; Fortwonatus, M.; Santoso, A.J. Identiﬁcation the Maturity Level of Carica Papaya Using the K-
Nearest Neighbor. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Electronics Representation and Algorithm “Innovation and
Transformation for Best Practices in Global Community”, Yogyakarta, Indonesia, 12–13 December 2019. [CrossRef]
90.
Astuti, I.F.; Nuryanto, F.D.; Widagdo, P.P.; Cahyadi, D. Oil Palm Fruit Ripeness Detection Using K-Nearest Neighbour. In
Proceedings of the International Conference on Mathematics, Science and Computer Science, Balikpapan, Indonesia, 24 October
2018. [CrossRef]
91.
Tanco, M.M.; Tejera, G.; Martino, J.M.D. Computer Vision Based System for Apple Detection in Crops. In Proceedings of the
International Joint Conference on Computer Vision, Imaging and Computer Graphics Theory and Applications, Funchal, Madeira,
Portugal, 27–29 January 2018. [CrossRef]
92.
Tu, S.; Pang, J.; Liu, H.; Zhuang, N.; Chen, Y.; Zheng, C.; Wan, H.; Xue, Y. Passion Fruit Detection and Counting Based on Multiple
Scale Faster R-CNN Using RGB-D Images. Precis. Agric. 2020, 21, 1072–1091. [CrossRef]
93.
Kumar, M.; Gupta, S.; Gao, X.Z.; Singh, A. Plant Species Recognition Using Morphological Features and Adaptive Boosting
Methodology. IEEE Access 2019, 7, 163912–163918. [CrossRef]
94.
Ling, X.; Zhao, Y.; Gong, L.; Liu, C.; Wang, T. Dual-Arm Cooperation and Implementing for Robotic Harvesting Tomato Using
Binocular Vision. Robot. Auton. Syst. 2019, 114, 134–143. [CrossRef]
95.
Fu, L.; Duan, J.; Zou, X.; Lin, G.; Song, S.; Ji, B.; Yang, Z. Banana Detection Based on Color and Texture Features in the Natural
Environment. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2019, 167, 105057. [CrossRef]
96.
Wang, C.; Lee, W.S.; Zou, X.; Choi, D.; Gan, H.; Diamond, J. Detection and Counting of Immature Green Citrus Fruit Based on the
Local Binary Patterns (LBP) Feature Using Illumination-Normalized Images. Precis. Agric. 2018, 19, 1062–1083. [CrossRef]
97.
Fernandes, A.; Utkin, A.; Eiras-Dias, J.; Silvestre, J.; Cunha, J.; Melo-Pinto, P. Assessment of Grapevine Variety Discrimination Using
Stem Hyperspectral Data and AdaBoost of Random Weight Neural Networks. Appl. Soft Comput. 2018, 72, 140–155. [CrossRef]
98.
Luo, L.; Tang, Y.; Zou, X.; Wang, C.; Zhang, P.; Feng, W. Robust Grape Cluster Detection in a Vineyard by Combining the AdaBoost
Framework and Multiple Color Components. Sensors 2016, 16, 2098. [CrossRef]
99.
Zhao, Y.; Gong, L.; Zhou, B.; Huang, Y.; Liu, C. Detecting Tomatoes in Greenhouse Scenes by Combining AdaBoost Classiﬁer and
Colour Analysis. Biosyst. Eng. 2016, 148, 127–137. [CrossRef]
100. Abd al karim, M.H.; Karim, A.A. Using Texture Feature in Fruit Classiﬁcation. Eng. Technol. J. 2021, 39, 67–79. [CrossRef]
101. Abasi, S.; Minaei, S.; Jamshidi, B.; Fathi, D. Development of an Optical Smart Portable Instrument for Fruit Quality Detection.
IEEE Trans. Instrum. Meas. 2021, 70, 1–9. [CrossRef]
102. Chen, J.; Lian, Y.; Li, Y. Real-Time Grain Impurity Sensing for Rice Combine Harvesters Using Image Processing and Decision-Tree
Algorithm. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2020, 175, 105591. [CrossRef]
103. Kuang, Y.C.; Streeter, L.; Cree, M.J.; Ooi, M.P.L. Evaluation of Deep Neural Network and Alternating Decision Tree for Kiwifruit
Detection. In Proceedings of the IEEE International Instrumentation and Measurement Technology Conference, Auckland, New
Zealand, 20–23 May 2019. [CrossRef]
104. Ma, J.; Du, K.; Zheng, F.; Zhang, L.; Sun, Z. A Segmentation Method for Processing Greenhouse Vegetable Foliar Disease Symptom
Images. Inf. Process. Agric. 2019, 6, 216–223. [CrossRef]
105. Wajid, A.; Singh, N.K.; Junjun, P.; Mughal, M.A. Recognition of Ripe, Unripe and Scaled Condition of Orange Citrus Based
on Decision Tree Classiﬁcation. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Computing, Mathematics and Engineering
Technologies, Sukkur, Pakistan, 3–4 March 2018. [CrossRef]
106. Ilic, M.; Ilic, S.; Jovic, S.; Panic, S. Early Cherry Fruit Pathogen Disease Detection Based on Data Mining Prediction. Comput.
Electron. Agric. 2018, 150, 418–425. [CrossRef]
107. Ishikawa, T.; Hayashi, A.; Nagamatsu, S.; Kyutoku, Y.; Dan, I.; Wada, T.; Oku, K.; Saeki, Y.; Uto, T.; Tanabata, T.; et al. Classiﬁcation
of Strawberry Fruit Shape by Machine Learning. In Proceedings of the International Archives of the Photogrammetry, Remote
Sensing and Spatial Information Sciences Technical Commission II Mid-term Symposium “Towards Photogrammetry 2020”, Riva
del Garda, Italy, 4–7 June 2018. [CrossRef]
108. Reyes, J.F.; Contreras, E.; Correa, C.; Melin, P. Image Analysis of Real-Time Classiﬁcation of Cherry Fruit from Colour Features. J.
Agric. Eng. 2021, 52, 1–6. [CrossRef]
109. Chithra, P.L.; Henila, M. Apple Fruit Sorting Using Novel Thresholding and Area Calculation Algorithms. Soft Comput. 2021, 25,
431–445. [CrossRef]

Agronomy 2023, 13, 639
28 of 29
110. Sari, C.A.; Puspa Sari, I.; Rachmawanto, E.H.; Rosal Ignatius Moses Setiadi, D.; Proborini, E.; Bijanto; Ali, R.R.; Rizqa, I. Papaya
Fruit Type Classification Using LBP Features Extraction and Naive Bayes Classifier. In Proceedings of the International Seminar on
Application for Technology of Information and Communication (iSemantic), Semarang, Indonesia, 19–20 September 2020. [CrossRef]
111. Muhathir; Santoso, M.H.; Muliono, R. Analysis Naïve Bayes in Classifying Fruit by Utilizing Hog Feature Extraction. J. Inform.
Telecommun. Eng. 2020, 4, 151–160. [CrossRef]
112. Abdelghafour, F.; Rosu, R.; Keresztes, B.; Germain, C.; Da Costa, J.P. A Bayesian Framework for Joint Structure and Colour Based
Pixel-Wise Classiﬁcation of Grapevine Proximal Images. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2019, 158, 345–357. [CrossRef]
113. Kusuma, A.; Setiadi, D.R.I.M.; Putra, M.D.M. Tomato Maturity Classiﬁcation Using Naive Bayes Algorithm and Histogram
Feature Extraction. J. Appl. Intell. Syst. 2018, 3, 39–48. [CrossRef]
114. Lv, J.; Xu, H.; Xu, L.; Zou, L.; Rong, H.; Yang, B.; Niu, L.; Ma, Z. Recognition of Fruits and Vegetables with Similar-Color
Background in Natural Environment: A Survey. J. Field Robot. 2022, 39, 888–904. [CrossRef]
115. Ukwuoma, C.C.; Qin, Z.; Heyat, M.B.B.; Ali, L.; Almaspoor, Z.; Monday, H.N. Recent Advancements in Fruit Detection and
Classiﬁcation Using Deep Learning Techniques. Math. Probl. Eng. 2022, 2022, 9210947. [CrossRef]
116. Li, Y.; Feng, Q.; Li, T.; Xie, F.; Liu, C.; Xiong, Z. Advance of Target Visual Information Acquisition Technology for Fresh Fruit
Robotic Harvesting: A Review. Agronomy 2022, 12, 1366. [CrossRef]
117. Aslam, F.; Khan, Z.; Tahir, A.; Parveen, K.; Albasheer, F.O.; Abrar, S.U.; Khan, D.M. A Survey of Deep Learning Methods for Fruit
and Vegetable Detection and Yield Estimation. Big Data Anal. Comput. Intell. Cybersecur. 2022, 111, 299–323. [CrossRef]
118. Li, Z.; Yuan, X.; Wang, C. A Review on Structural Development and Recognition–Localization Methods for End-Effector of
Fruit–Vegetable Picking Robots. Int. J. Adv. Robot. Syst. 2022, 19, 172988062211049. [CrossRef]
119. Darwin, B.; Dharmaraj, P.; Prince, S.; Popescu, D.E.; Hemanth, D.J. Recognition of Bloom/Yield in Crop Images Using Deep
Learning Models for Smart Agriculture: A Review. Agronomy 2021, 11, 646. [CrossRef]
120. Maheswari, P.; Raja, P.; Apolo-Apolo, O.E.; Pérez-Ruiz, M. Intelligent Fruit Yield Estimation for Orchards Using Deep Learning
Based Semantic Segmentation Techniques—A Review. Front. Plant Sci. 2021, 12, 684328. [CrossRef]
121. Bhargava, A.; Bansal, A. Fruits and Vegetables Quality Evaluation Using Computer Vision: A Review. J. King Saud Univ. Comput.
Inf. Sci. 2021, 33, 243–257. [CrossRef]
122. Saleem, M.H.; Potgieter, J.; Arif, K.M. Automation in Agriculture by Machine and Deep Learning Techniques: A Review of Recent
Developments. Precis. Agric. 2021, 22, 2053–2091. [CrossRef]
123. Tang, Y.; Chen, M.; Wang, C.; Luo, L.; Li, J.; Lian, G.; Zou, X. Recognition and Localization Methods for Vision-Based Fruit Picking
Robots: A Review. Front. Plant Sci. 2020, 11, 510. [CrossRef]
124. Jia, W.; Zhang, Y.; Lian, J.; Zheng, Y.; Zhao, D.; Li, C. Apple Harvesting Robot under Information Technology: A Review. Int. J.
Adv. Robot. Syst. 2020, 17, 1729881420925310. [CrossRef]
125. Tripathi, M.K.; Maktedar, D.D. A Role of Computer Vision in Fruits and Vegetables among Various Horticulture Products of
Agriculture Fields: A Survey. Inf. Process. Agric. 2020, 7, 183–203. [CrossRef]
126. Naranjo-Torres, J.; Mora, M.; Hernández-García, R.; Barrientos, R.J.; Fredes, C.; Valenzuela, A. A Review of Convolutional Neural
Network Applied to Fruit Image Processing. Appl. Sci. 2020, 10, 3443. [CrossRef]
127. Koirala, A.; Walsh, K.B.; Wang, Z.; McCarthy, C. Deep Learning—Method Overview and Review of Use for Fruit Detection and
Yield Estimation. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2019, 162, 219–234. [CrossRef]
128. Rehman, T.U.; Mahmud, M.S.; Chang, Y.K.; Jin, J.; Shin, J. Current and Future Applications of Statistical Machine Learning
Algorithms for Agricultural Machine Vision Systems. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2019, 156, 585–605. [CrossRef]
129. Shamshiri, R.R.; Weltzien, C.; Hameed, I.A.; Yule, I.J.; Grift, T.E.; Balasundram, S.K.; Pitonakova, L.; Ahmad, D.; Chowdhary, G. Research
and Development in Agricultural Robotics: A Perspective of Digital Farming. Int. J. Agric. Biol. Eng. 2018, 11, 1–14. [CrossRef]
130. Kamilaris, A.; Prenafeta-Boldú, F.X. Deep Learning in Agriculture: A Survey. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2018, 147, 70–90. [CrossRef]
131. Zhu, N.; Liu, X.; Liu, Z.; Hu, K.; Wang, Y.; Tan, J.; Huang, M.; Zhu, Q.; Ji, X.; Jiang, Y.; et al. Deep Learning for Smart Agriculture:
Concepts, Tools, Applications, and Opportunities. Int. J. Agric. Biol. Eng. 2018, 11, 32–44. [CrossRef]
132. Iqbal, Z.; Khan, M.A.; Sharif, M.; Shah, J.H.; Rehman, M.H.U.; Javed, K. An Automated Detection and Classiﬁcation of Citrus
Plant Diseases Using Image Processing Techniques: A Review. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2018, 153, 12–32. [CrossRef]
133. Hameed, K.; Chai, D.; Rassau, A. A Comprehensive Review of Fruit and Vegetable Classiﬁcation Techniques. Image Vis. Comput.
2018, 80, 24–44. [CrossRef]
134. Zhao, Y.; Gong, L.; Huang, Y.; Liu, C. A Review of Key Techniques of Vision-Based Control for Harvesting Robot. Comput.
Electron. Agric. 2016, 127, 311–323. [CrossRef]
135. Gongal, A.; Amatya, S.; Karkee, M.; Zhang, Q.; Lewis, K. Sensors and Systems for Fruit Detection and Localization: A Review.
Comput. Electron. Agric. 2015, 116, 8–19. [CrossRef]
136. Mao, S.; Li, Y.; Ma, Y.; Zhang, B.; Zhou, J.; Wang, K. Automatic Cucumber Recognition Algorithm for Harvesting Robots in the
Natural Environment Using Deep Learning and Multi-Feature Fusion. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2020, 170, 105254. [CrossRef]
137. Zhao, S.; Liu, J.; Wu, S. Multiple Disease Detection Method for Greenhouse-Cultivated Strawberry Based on Multiscale Feature
Fusion Faster R_CNN. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2022, 199, 107176. [CrossRef]

Agronomy 2023, 13, 639
29 of 29
138. Wu, G.; Li, B.; Zhu, Q.; Huang, M.; Guo, Y. Using Color and 3D Geometry Features to Segment Fruit Point Cloud and Improve
Fruit Recognition Accuracy. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2020, 174, 105475. [CrossRef]
139. Lin, G.; Tang, Y.; Zou, X.; Xiong, J.; Fang, Y. Color-, Depth-, and Shape-Based 3D Fruit Detection. Precis. Agric. 2020, 21, 1–17. [CrossRef]
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
