Citation: Xiao, F.; Wang, H.; Xu, Y.;
Zhang, R. Fruit Detection and
Recognition Based on Deep Learning
for Automatic Harvesting: An
Overview and Review. Agronomy
2023, 13, 1625. https://doi.org/10.
3390/agronomy13061625
Academic Editor: Shubo Wang
Received: 11 May 2023
Revised: 13 June 2023
Accepted: 14 June 2023
Published: 16 June 2023
Copyright:
© 2023 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed
under
the
terms
and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
agronomy
Review
Fruit Detection and Recognition Based on Deep Learning for
Automatic Harvesting: An Overview and Review
Feng Xiao
, Haibin Wang *
, Yueqin Xu and Ruiqing Zhang
College of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering, Northeast Forestry University, Harbin 150040, China;
xiaofeng@nefu.edu.cn (F.X.)
* Correspondence: whb_nefu@nefu.edu.cn
Abstract: Continuing progress in machine learning (ML) has led to signiﬁcant advancements in
agricultural tasks. Due to its strong ability to extract high-dimensional features from fruit images,
deep learning (DL) is widely used in fruit detection and automatic harvesting. Convolutional neural
networks (CNN) in particular have demonstrated the ability to attain accuracy and speed levels
comparable to those of humans in some fruit detection and automatic harvesting ﬁelds. This paper
presents a comprehensive overview and review of fruit detection and recognition based on DL
for automatic harvesting from 2018 up to now. We focus on the current challenges affecting fruit
detection performance for automatic harvesting: the scarcity of high-quality fruit datasets, fruit
detection of small targets, fruit detection in occluded and dense scenarios, fruit detection of multiple
scales and multiple species, and lightweight fruit detection models. In response to these challenges,
we propose feasible solutions and prospective future development trends. Future research should
prioritize addressing these current challenges and improving the accuracy, speed, robustness, and
generalization of fruit vision detection systems, while reducing the overall complexity and cost.
This paper hopes to provide a reference for follow-up research in the ﬁeld of fruit detection and
recognition based on DL for automatic harvesting.
Keywords: computer vision; deep learning; fruit detection; fruit recognition; automatic harvesting;
current challenge; development trend; research review
1. Introduction
In recent years, the application of artificial intelligence (AI) techniques and robotic
systems to automate agricultural processes has garnered significant interest (as shown in
Figure 1). Fruits usually grow in complex environments with many uncertainties. Powerful
fruit vision detection systems are necessary for intelligent agriculture and automatic harvesting.
Fruit vision detection systems’ characteristics mainly include imaging sensors and visual
information about fruits. Fruit vision detection systems generally operate through the five
stages (as shown in Figure 2): fruit image acquisition, fruit image preprocessing, fruit feature
extraction, fruit image segmentation, and fruit image recognition. Black and white cameras,
red–green–blue (RGB) cameras, spectral cameras, thermal cameras, and RGB-depth map
(RGB-D) cameras (as shown in Figure 3) are commonly used for fruit vision detection systems
to obtain color, shape, texture, and size information of fruits in specific operational areas.
A comparison of different types of imaging sensors is shown in Table 1. Fruit images acquired
through different imaging methods are shown in Figure 4. The main research processes of
fruit detection and recognition methods are shown in Figure 5. Since DL has a strong ability
to extract high-dimensional features from fruit images, researchers have proposed many
fruit detection and recognition methods based on DL (you only look once (YOLO), single
shot multibox detector (SSD), Alex Krizhevsky networks (AlexNet), visual geometry group
networks (VGGNet), residual networks (ResNet), faster region-convolutional neural networks
(Faster R-CNN), fully convolutional networks (FCN), SegNet, and mask region-convolutional
Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625. https://doi.org/10.3390/agronomy13061625
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/agronomy

Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625
2 of 33
neural networks (Mask R-CNN)) for automatic harvesting (as shown in Table 2). Despite much
research, many challenges need to be overcome to build an effective fruit vision detection and
harvesting system.
 
Figure 1. Typical harvesting robots. (a) A plum-harvesting robot (photo reprinted with permission
from ref. [1]. 2021, Brown, J.); (b,d–f) Apple-harvesting robots (photo reprinted with permission from
ref. [2]. 2021, Yan, B.; ref. [3]. 2017, He, L.; ref. [4]. 2012, Ji, W.; ref. [5]. 2011, Zhao, D.); (c,n–p) Sweet
pepper-harvesting robots (photo reprinted with permission from ref. [6]. 2020, Arad, B.; ref. [7].
2017, Lehnert, C.; ref. [8]. 2014, Bac, C.W.); (g–i) Strawberry-harvesting robots (photo reprinted
with permission from ref. [9]. 2020, Xiong, Y.; ref. [10]. 2019, Xiong, Y.; ref. [11]. 2010, Hayashi,
S.); (j) A lychee-harvesting robot (photo reprinted with permission from ref. [12]. 2018, Xiong, J.);
(k,m) Tomato-harvesting robots (photo reprinted with permission from ref. [13]. 2018, Feng, Q.;
ref. [14]. 2010, Kondo, N.); (l) A kiwifruit-harvesting robot (photo reprinted with permission from
ref. [15]. 2019, Williams, H.A.M.).
Figure 2. Different processes of fruit detection and recognition based on DL (image reprinted with
permission from ref. [16]. 2023, Xiao F.).

Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625
3 of 33
 
 
 
(a) Black and white camera 
(Leica Q2 Monochrom) 
(b) RGB camera 
(Leica SL2) 
(c) Thermal camera 
(Fluke TiX580) 
source: www.leica-camera.cn 
source: www.fluke.com 
 
 
 
(d) Multispectral camera 
(SmartMore SMI-SC-1080P-02) 
(e) Hyperspectral camera 
(SmartMore SMI-SC-600C-01) 
(f) RGB-D camera 
(Microsoft Azure Kinect DK) 
source: inside.smartmore.com 
source: www.microsoftstore.com.cn 
Figure 3. Different types of imaging sensors commonly used for fruit vision detection systems
(accessed on 5 January 2023).
Table 1. Comparison of different types of imaging sensors commonly used in fruit vision detec-
tion systems.
Fruit Imaging
Sensors
Types
Information
Advantages
Limitations
RGB-D camera
and LSS (Lift,
Splat, Shoot)
Active
RGB and depth
images
Complete fruit
scene
characteristics
Lack of feature
descriptors
Black and white
camera
Passive
Shape and
texture features
Little effect of
changes in
lighting
conditions
Lack of color
information
RGB camera
Color, shape,
and texture
features
Exploiting all the
basic features of
target fruits
Highly sensitive
to changing
lighting
conditions
Spectral camera
Color features
and spectral
information
Providing more
information
about reﬂectance
Computationally
expensive for
complete
spectrum
analysis
Thermal camera
Thermal
signatures
Color-invariant
Dependency on
minute thermal
difference

Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625
4 of 33
 
 
(a) 
(b) 
 
 
(c) 
(d) 
Figure 4. Fruit images acquired using different imaging methods. (a) Black and white image; (b) RGB,
depth, and infrared images (photos reprinted with permission from ref. [17]. 2020, Fu L.); (c) spectral
image (photo reprinted with permission from ref. [18]. 2009, Okamoto H.); (d) color and thermal-
registered image (photo reprinted with permission from ref. [19]. 2010, Wachs J.P.).
 
Figure 5. Main research processes of fruit detection and recognition methods based on DL.
Some review articles have been published encompassing diverse agricultural appli-
cations, such as crop recognition, fruit counting, weed discrimination, and plant disease
detection, with or without a robotic system, by considering AI/computer vision (CV)/other
advanced vision control techniques. For example, Rehman, T.U. et al., (including re-
searchers based in America and Canada) (2019) [20] provided a comprehensive summary
of ML algorithms that have been utilized in diverse agricultural operations. Brazilian
researchers Patrício, D.I. and Rieder, R. (2018) [21] investigated potential applications of
machine vision (MV) for diverse agricultural tasks, such as crop disease/pest detection,
grain quality evaluation, and automatic plant phenotyping. Narvaez, F.Y. et al., (including
researchers based in Chile, Italy, and America) (2017) [22] summarized various sensing
techniques, along with their limitations, to categorize fruits/plants. Indian researchers Jha,
K. et al., (2019) [23] outlined the latest smart methodologies, such as the Internet of Things
(IoT), for agricultural purposes. Dutch researchers Wolfert, S. et al., (2017) [24] reviewed the
application of big data in agriculture. There are also some review articles that have been
published incorporating only a particular type of agricultural application or scenario. For
example, we reviewed fruit detection and recognition techniques based on digital image
processing and traditional ML for fruit harvesters in [16]. New Zealand researchers Saleem,
M.H. et al., (2019) [25] summarized and explained DL models for the identiﬁcation and
classiﬁcation of plant diseases, along with the application of DL with advanced imaging
techniques, including hyperspectral/multispectral imaging. Wang, D. et al., (including
American researchers and a researcher based in Israel) (2019) [26] and Chinese researchers
Wang, A. et al., (2019) [27] reviewed procedures for weed detection using various classiﬁca-
tion methods, including ML and DL. The review literature on AI/ML/DL/MV/CV/other

Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625
5 of 33
advanced vision control techniques for intelligent agriculture and automatic harvesting
also includes [28–41]. However, unlike the articles mentioned above, our work focuses
on providing an overview and review of the use of DL applied to fruit image recognition
(mainly in the areas of detection and classiﬁcation) for automatic harvesting. In order to
further deﬁne the study areas of our paper, we identify fruit detection and classiﬁcation
tasks such as the determination of classes based on their speciﬁc types.
Table 2. Fruit detection and recognition methods based on DL.
Types
Accuracy
Applied Crops
Advantages
Disadvantages
YOLO
84–98%
cabbage, citrus, lychee,
mango, tomato
High fruit detection speed; it can meet
real-time requirements well for
automatic harvesting
Fruit detection accuracy under severe
occlusion, low resolution, and
changing lighting conditions is low
SSD
75–92%
apple, mango, pear, sour
lemon
High detection accuracy and speed;
good robustness and generalization
Fruit images need to be preprocessed;
detection accuracy for small targets is
low
AlexNet
86–96%
apple, strawberry, sugar
beet, tomato
Using dropout to avoid overﬁtting;
good generalization ability
Network convergence takes a
little longer
VGGNet
92–99%
jujube, potato, sugar beet,
tomato
Simple structure of fruit vision
detection models
Network convergence takes a little
longer; using more
network parameters
ResNet
90–95%
apple, banana
Using residual blocks to deepen
network layers and reduce network
parameters
Too deep network layers may result in
vanishing gradients, poor training
effectiveness, and low detection
accuracy
Faster R-CNN
90–99%
apple, mango, orange
High detection accuracy
Fruit detection speed is slow, and it
cannot meet real-time requirements
well
FCN
89–98%
cotton, grape, guava,
kiwifruit
Accepting fruit image inputs with
arbitrary sizes; high efﬁciency and
low computational effort
Insensitive to the details of fruits in
fruit images; fruit classiﬁcation does
not consider inter-pixel relationships
SegNet
83–95%
apple, tomato
Obtaining edge contours and
maintaining the integrity of
high-frequency details
in segmentation
Neighboring information may be
ignored when fruit feature maps with
low resolution are unpooled
Mask R-CNN
80–94%
apple, strawberry, tomato
Combining semantic segmentation
with fruit detection by outputting
mask images
Fruit detection speed is slow, and it
cannot meet real-time requirements
well
The contributions of this work are as follows: (1) systematically summarizes and
explains all kinds of fruit detection and recognition methods based on DL for automatic
harvesting from 2018 up to now; (2) systematically compares and analyzes the advantages,
disadvantages, and applicability of various fruit detection and recognition methods based
on DL for automatic harvesting; (3) systematically demonstrates the current challenges
affecting fruit detection performance for automatic harvesting and proposes feasible so-
lutions and prospective future potential developments. Through this clearer and more
comprehensive overview and review, we aim to provide a reference for follow-up research
in the ﬁeld of fruit detection and recognition based on DL for automatic harvesting.
According to Martín-Martín, A. et al., (including Spanish researchers and a researcher
based in the UK) (2018) [42], Google Scholar citation data encompass a larger set of publications
than Web of Science and Scopus. In order to comprehensively survey the literature relevant
to the scope of this article, the Google Scholar database has been selected as the source. In
the first step, combinations of keywords such as “fruit detection”, “fruit recognition”, “deep
learning”, “computer vision”, and “fruit harvesting” were utilized in the initial search process.
All retrieved papers were subsequently evaluated for their relevance to the subject matter.
The second step included the examination of the references from step one for a more thorough
review. In the final step, to ensure that our study focuses on the most current research, all
papers published before 2018 were excluded. Only the recent literature from 2018 to the

Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625
6 of 33
present was considered. The final set of papers regarding fruit detection and recognition
based on DL for automatic harvesting included 53 research articles. Figure 6 displays the
distribution of articles per year, network models used, and crops detected.
 
 
(a) Distribution of articles per year. 
(b) Distribution of network models used. 
(c) Distribution of crops detected and recognized. 
Figure 6. Summary of literature search.
As shown in Figure 6, in recent years, the application of DL techniques and robotic
systems to automate agricultural processes has garnered signiﬁcant interest. Improvement
and application research based on Faster R-CNN (21%) is currently a hotspot. The recogni-
tion accuracy of fruit detection methods based on Faster R-CNN is high, but recognition
speed is limited by complex anchor frame mechanisms. When there are mobile deployment
and high recognition speed requirements, fruit detection methods based on YOLO (17%)
are used most frequently. Their recognition speed is fast, but the recognition effect for small
target fruits is not very good. In addition, ResNet (11%) is the most popular backbone
network, followed by AlexNet (7%).
Most of the research focuses on apples (32.14%), followed by tomatoes (8.93%), and
citrus (7.14%). These three kinds of fruits are in high demand and yield globally. There
are some reasons that make them ideal candidates for automatic harvesting. Firstly, they
individually hang from plants, making them easily detectable based on their distinctive
features. Secondly, they have no extreme variations in size or weight. Lastly, they are
relatively hard and not easily damaged in mechanical operations. However, in terms of fruit
dimensions and peduncle length, different cultivars may exhibit different characteristics,
which can affect fruit detection and recognition performance. This poses challenges for
adapting fruit detection and recognition methods for different cultivars. Future work could
aim to identify cultivars that are more suitable for automatic harvesting.
The outline of this article is shown in Figure 7. The organization of the rest of the
paper is as follows: Section 2 summarizes and explains previous research articles about
DL applied to fruit detection and recognition for automatic harvesting. We compare and
analyze the advantages, disadvantages, and applicability of various fruit detection and

Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625
7 of 33
recognition methods based on DL (YOLO, SSD, AlexNet, VGGNet, ResNet, Faster R-CNN,
FCN, SegNet, and Mask R-CNN) for automatic harvesting; Section 3 discusses the current
challenges affecting fruit detection and recognition performance for automatic harvesting
(scarcity of high-quality fruit datasets, fruit detection of small targets, fruit detection in
occluded and dense scenarios, fruit detection of multiple scales and multiple species, and
lightweight fruit detection models) and proposes feasible solutions and prospective future
development trends; Section 4 concludes this article.
 
Figure 7. Outline of the article.
2. Fruit Detection and Recognition Based on DL
The concept of DL originated from research on artiﬁcial neural networks (ANN), pro-
posed by Canadian researchers Hinton, G.E. and Salakhutdinov, R.R. in 2006 [43]. Since DL
has a strong ability to extract high-dimensional features from fruit images, many researchers
have conducted extensive and in-depth research on fruit detection and recognition based
on DL for automatic harvesting. The basic architecture of DL-based ANN for fruit detection
and recognition is shown in Figure 8.

Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625
8 of 33
Figure 8. Basic architecture of DL-based ANN for fruit detection and recognition.
CNNs were proposed by American researchers LeCun, Y. et al. in the 1980s [44,45].
They can efﬁciently capture patterns in multidimensional space. A typical CNN framework
for fruit detection and recognition is shown in Figure 9. It includes the convolutional layer
(Conv), pooling layer (Pool), nonlinear activation function, and fully connected layer (FC).
The convolutional layer is the core of the CNN for fruit feature extraction. Depending
on the designed convolution kernel, convolution operations capture fruit image contours
and generate corresponding fruit feature maps. In order to reduce the spatial size of the
fruit feature maps, the pooling layer performs down-sampling operations by sampling the
maximum or average value in a neighborhood range. The nonlinear activation function
uses activation functions to process the input data. Neurons in the fully connected layer are
connected to all activated neurons in the layer above it. When training the CNN, the model
scores categories of predicted images, calculates training loss using selected loss functions,
and updates weights through backpropagation functions and gradient descent. The cross-
entropy loss function is one of the most widely used loss functions, and the stochastic
gradient descent method is the most popular method to address gradient descent.
 
Figure 9. Typical CNN framework for fruit detection and recognition.
Compared with digital image processing and traditional ML techniques, fruit detection
and recognition methods based on CNN have great advantages in terms of accuracy.
Jahanbakhshi, A. et al., (including Iranian researchers and a researcher based in the UK)
(2020) [46] proposed an improved CNN (15, 16, and 18 layers) to detect apparent defects
in sour lemons. In comparison to traditional fruit feature extraction methods, such as
histogram of oriented gradient (HOG), local binary pattern (LBP), support vector machine
(SVM), k-nearest neighbor (KNN), decision tree, and fuzzy classiﬁcation, the improved
CNN was found to outperform these methods, achieving an accuracy of 100%. Bangladeshi
researchers Sakib, S. et al., (2019) [47] proposed a fruit detection system using CNN. The
Fruits-360 dataset was utilized to evaluate the proposed system. The training accuracy
and testing accuracy are 99.79% and 100%, respectively. In general, fruit detection and

Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625
9 of 33
recognition methods based on CNN can achieve state-of-the-art (SOTA) accuracy for
detecting and recognizing any type of fruit on any background.
Current fruit detection and recognition methods based on DL for automatic harvesting
can be classiﬁed into two categories: single-stage fruit detection and recognition methods
(such as YOLO and SSD) based on regression, and two-stage fruit detection and recognition
methods (AlexNet, VGGNet, ResNet, Faster R-CNN, FCN, SegNet, and Mask R-CNN)
based on candidate regions. Single-stage methods deﬁne fruit detection tasks as regression
problems of class conﬁdence and bounding box locations (as shown in Figure 10). They
divide input fruit images into a grid of cells, extract fruit feature information through the
convolutional layer, and predict object class probabilities and bounding box coordinates
for each cell. In contrast, as shown in Figure 11, for two-stage methods, in the ﬁrst stage,
a set of target fruit proposals is generated by the RPN on fruit feature maps produced
by the convolutional layer. The RPN generates region of interest (RoI) proposals for each
location on the fruit feature maps. Each proposal consists of a ﬁxed-size bounding box
and a probability score of containing a target fruit. Based on the scores assigned to these
proposals, the top N highest-scoring regions are selected as ﬁnal RoI proposals. To generate
RoI proposals, the RPN applies sliding windows of different scales and aspect ratios to
fruit feature maps. In the second stage, each ﬁnal RoI proposal is cropped into a ﬁxed-size
feature map using RoI pooling. The maps are then fed into a separate CNN for fruit
classiﬁcation and bounding box regression.
 
Figure 10. Modeling fruit detection as a regression problem (photos reprinted with permission from
ref. [48]. 2022, Chen J.).
 
Figure 11. Comparison of one-stage and two-stage fruit detection and recognition methods.
Table 3 compares and analyzes different fruit detection and recognition methods used
by various researchers. In the section on “crop, description, and merit”, we explain the
innovation. In the section on “improvement”, we identify the weaknesses and potential
improvements. In general, two-stage fruit detection and recognition methods have been
shown to achieve higher accuracy than single-stage fruit detection and recognition methods
due to their ability to propose more accurate fruit locations. However, they are slower and
computationally more intensive than single-stage fruit detection and recognition methods.
On the other hand, while single-stage fruit detection and recognition methods are faster
and simpler than two-stage fruit detection and recognition methods, they may be less
accurate, especially for small target fruits.

Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625
10 of 33
Table 3. Comparison of different fruit detection and recognition methods based on DL.
Crops, Description, and Merit
En*
Datasets
Pixels
Sensors
Condition
Improvements
Value (%)
Olive (CNN)/Indian researchers Khosravi,
H. et al., (2021) [49] propose a real-time
detection method for two olive cultivars in
four ripening stages. Adagrad, SGD,
SGDM, RMSProp, Adam, and Nadam are
evaluated. Nadam shows the best efﬁciency
√
Train: 14,017;
test: 878
256 × 256
Galaxy J6
smartphone camera
Natural lighting
Lighting conditions and
fruit image-capturing
settings are
not considered
Overall accuracy:
91.91; CPU: 12.64 ms;
GPU: 4.10 ms
Blueberry (CNN)/Chilean researcher
Quiroz, I.A. and Mexican researcher
Alférez, G.H. (2020) [50] present a DL
solution for image recognition of legacy
blueberries in rooting stages
×
Total: 258; train:
168; val: 54;
pre: 36
1920 × 1080
Microsoft Lifecam
Studio digital camera
Good lighting
conditions, not
blurred, and
without distracting
objects in
the background
It could use GANs to
generate synthetic
images that closely
resemble real ones,
minimizing the need for
accessing real data
Accuracy: 86;
precision: 86; recall:
88; F1 score: 86
Sour lemon (CNN)/Jahanbakhshi, A. et al.,
(including Iranian researchers and a
researcher based in the UK) (2020) [46]
detect apparent defects in sour lemons.
Data augmentation and stochastic pooling
mechanisms are used to improve
detection performance
√
Total: 5456;
healthy: 2960;
damaged: 2496;
train: 70%;
val: 30%
16 × 16; 32 × 32;
64 × 64
Camera (Canon,
Japan)
A lighting box
including two
LED lamps
Future work may
include accommodating
more varied fruit
detection conditions
Accuracy: 100
56 diseases infecting 12 plant species
(CNN)/Brazilian researcher Barbedo, J.G.A.
(2018) [51] studies the effectiveness of DL
and TL for plant disease classiﬁcation
×
Total: 1383;
train: 80%;
val: 20%
224 × 224 × 3
A variety of digital
cameras and
mobile devices
Under controlled
conditions: 15%;
under real
conditions: 85%
The number of samples
is too small for the CNN
to thoroughly capture
the characteristics and
variations associated
with each class
It is a challenge to
build fruit databases
comprehensive
enough for the
creation of
robust fruit
detection models
Strawberry (AlexNet)/Chinese researchers
Ni, J. et al., (2021) [52] propose an enhanced
AlexNet for strawberry quality evaluation.
The size of the convolution kernel is
modiﬁed. The single convolutional layer is
divided into three convolutional layers
with different convolution kernels. The BN
layer and L2 regularization are used
×
Total: 3006;
unripe: 778;
medium: 382;
fully: 787;
bad: 847;
malformed: 212;
train: 80%;
val: 10%; test: 10%
227 × 227
HUAWEI mobile
phone
Two different
scenes of a ﬁeld
and a laboratory
It is not certain which
augmentation method
will help improve fruit
detection performance
Average accuracy:
90.70; after
augmentation: 95.75

Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625
11 of 33
Table 3. Cont.
Crops, Description, and Merit
En*
Datasets
Pixels
Sensors
Condition
Improvements
Value (%)
Grape bunch (AlexNet)/Italian researchers
Marani, R. et al., (2021) [53] investigate the use of
DL for grape bunch segmentation in natural fruit
images captured using a consumer-grade camera.
It is based on the optimal threshold selection of
bunch probability maps as an alternative to the
conventional minimization of cross-entropy loss
for mutually exclusive classes
×
Total: 84;
train: 60; val: 24
640 × 480
Intel RealSense R200
RGB-D camera
Fruit images under
direct (opposite)
sunlight are not
considered since
they become
overexposed, and
their colors saturate
to white
Depth data could be
used to guide the
selection of the size
N of the moving
window for the
proposed processing
Mean segmentation
accuracy on the
bunch class: 80.58;
IoU: 45.64
Date fruit (VGGNet)/Saudi Arabian researchers
Altaheri, H. et al., (2019) [54] propose an efﬁcient
MV framework for date fruit-harvesting robots
×
Total: 8072;
5 date types in
different
pre-maturity
and maturity
stages; more
than 350 date
bunches;
belong to
29 date palms
--
RGB video camera
The dataset reﬂects
the challenges,
including
variations in angles,
scales, and
illumination
conditions
It may lead to
confusion in the
detection of date fruit
maturity, including
labeling rules and
interference between
maturity stages
Type, maturity, and
harvesting decision
classiﬁcation
accuracies: 99.01,
97.25, 98.59;
classiﬁcation times:
20.6, 20.7, 35.9 ms
Apple (ResNet)/Chinese researchers Wang,
D. et al., (2020) [55] develop a remote apple
horizontal diameter detection system to achieve
automatic measurement of apple growth
throughout the entire growth period. The fused
convolutional feature network developed can
effectively remove complex backgrounds and
accurately detect apple edges with near
real-time performance
√
Total: 903; train:
743; val: 160;
test: 170;
5944 images are
eventually
obtained
through data
augmentation;
mature red,
immature
green,
semimature
403 × 303
iPhone 7 plus
To prevent distinct
edges from forming
on the surfaces of
apples due to
intense natural
light, the images
are captured on
cloudy days or at
dusk when the
light is not
as intense
Future
improvements are
needed to track the
monitored apple in
order to achieve the
goal of adjusting the
camera’s shooting
angle and selecting
seed points
automatically
F1 score: 53.1;
average run time:
75 ms; mean average
absolute error of the
apples’ horizontal
diameters detected:
0.90 mm

Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625
12 of 33
Table 3. Cont.
Crops, Description, and Merit
En*
Datasets
Pixels
Sensors
Condition
Improvements
Value (%)
Passion fruit (Faster R-CNN)/Chinese
researchers Tu, S. et al., (2020) [56] propose a
multiple-scale Faster R-CNN approach based on
RGB-D images for small passion fruit detection
and counting. It detects lower-level features by
incorporating feature maps from shallower
convolutional feature maps for RoI pooling
√
Total RGB
images: 8651;
train: 6055;
test: 2596; total
depth images:
3352;
train: 2346;
test 1006
1920 × 1080;
512 × 424
Kinect V2
The Kinect V2
sensor is used to
avoid strong
sunlight and work
in shady areas
because the ToF
technique is
unsuitable in
strong sunlight
conditions
The detection
performance of
passion fruit in
different growth
stages could be
evaluated and
analyzed
Recall: 96.2;
precision: 93.1;
F1-score: 94.6
Young tomato fruit (Faster R-CNN)/Chinese
researchers Wang, P. et al., (2021) [57] propose a
method for detecting young tomatoes on
near-color backgrounds based on an improved
Faster R-CNN with attention mechanisms. Soft
non-maximum suppression is used to reduce the
missed detection rate of overlapping fruits
×
Total: 2235;
train: 80%;
val: 10%;
test: 10%
3000 × 3000
MI 9 smartphone
Different weather
conditions (sunny
and cloudy) and
different time
periods (morning,
noon, and evening)
Future work could
include
accommodating
various cultivars of
tomatoes and more
unstructured
environments
mAP: 98.46; average
detection time: 84 ms
Lychee (YOLO)/To improve the efﬁciency of
lychee harvesting, Chinese researchers Li,
C. et al., (2022) [58] propose a column-comb litchi
harvesting method based on K-means 3D
clustering partitioning
×
Total: 1049;
train: 840;
test: 209
1280 × 800;
1280 × 720
Intel RealSense
depth camera
Orchard
environments
(strong light and
backlight, sunny
and cloudy days,
and far and near
distances)
Current detection
performance are
obtained by testing
on well-deﬁned fruit
images with a limited
sample size
Recall: 78.99;
precision: 87.43; F1
score: 0.83
Tomato (YOLO)/Chinese researchers Miao,
Z. et al. (2022) [59] integrate classic image
processing methods with YOLOv5 to increase
fruit detection accuracy and robustness
×
Total: 1000;
train: 800;
val: 200
1920 × 1080;
1280 × 720
Intel RealSense
depth camera
Artiﬁcial
experimental
environments
Extended tests and
improvements in a
real orchard and
greenhouse will be
the main focus
Average deviation:
2 mm; average
operating time:
9 s/cluster

Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625
13 of 33
Table 3. Cont.
Crops, Description, and Merit
En*
Datasets
Pixels
Sensors
Condition
Improvements
Value (%)
Hass avocado, lemon, apples (SSD)/Vasconez,
J.P. et al., (including Chilean researchers and a
researcher based in America) (2020) [60] test two
of the most common architectures: Faster R-CNN
with Inception V2 and SSD with MobileNet. To
address the problem of video-based fruit
counting, it uses multi-object tracking based on
Gaussian estimation
√
Avocado train:
1021; val: 211;
test: 211; apple
train: 694;
val: 191;
test: 191; lemon
train: 539;
val: 202;
test: 202
360 × 640
Commercial RGB
camera; acquiring at
30 FPS
Hass avocado,
lemon, and apple
datasets acquired
under illumination
levels ranging from
1890 to 43,600, 4800
to 52,000, and 3500
to 38,000 lux,
respectively
The CNN
architectures are
highly dependent on
the quality of the
training set. The
results might not be
conclusive for other
groves with
different fruits
SSD with MobileNet,
the minimum relative
error: 7 (avocados);
13 (apples);
20 (lemons);
computing time:
220 ms
Guava (FCN)/Chinese researchers Lin, G. et al.,
(2019) [61] use a low-cost RGB-D sensor to
achieve guava detection and pose estimation. It
uses Euclidean clustering to detect all the 3D
fruits from the fruit binary maps output by FCN.
It also establishes a 3D line segment detection
method to reconstruct the branches from the
branch binary maps
×
Total: 437;
train: 80%; val:
20%
424 × 512
Kinect V2
All kinds of
illuminations
Branch is a little
difﬁcult to segment
Precision: 98.3; recall:
94.8; 3D pose error:
23.43◦± 14.18◦;
execution time:
56.5 ms
Lychee clusters (SegNet)/Chinese researchers Li,
J. et al., (2020) [62] develop a reliable algorithm
based on RGB-D cameras to accurately detect
and locate the fruit-bearing branches of multiple
lychee clusters. It revises density
clustering-based branch extraction and optimal
clustering-based parameter analysis
√
Total: 452;
train: 80%;
val: 20%
1920 × 1080;
512 × 424
Kinect V2
All kinds of
illuminations; no
artiﬁcial shade or
lighting
interference
Future studies could
focus on improving
the success rate of
picking tasks
Detection accuracy:
83.33; positioning
accuracy:
17.29◦± 24.57◦;
execution time:
464 ms
Apple (SegNet)/Majeed, Y. et al., (including
American researchers and researchers based in
China) (2020) [63] develop a DL-based semantic
segmentation method. Both simple and
foreground RGB images are used for training
SegNet to segment trunks and branches
√
Total: 509;
train: 70%;
test: 30%
960 × 540
Kinect V2
Different lighting
conditions (sunny,
cloudy, and night)
Optimal branches
will be selected for
training by
estimating the
essential parameters
desired for canopy
architecture
Mean accuracy: 89;
IoU: 52; boundary-F1-
score: 81

Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625
14 of 33
Table 3. Cont.
Crops, Description, and Merit
En*
Datasets
Pixels
Sensors
Condition
Improvements
Value (%)
Cherry tomato (Mask R-CNN)/Chinese
researchers Xu, P. et al., (2022) [64] propose an
improved Mask R-CNN for the visual
recognition of cherry tomatoes by using depth
information and considering the prior adjacent
constraint between fruits and stems
√
Total: 3444;
train: 80%;
val: 20%
640 × 480
Intel RealSense
depth camera
Natural conditions
Future work may
include reducing the
processing time and
accommodating
more varied
conditions
Detection accuracy of
fruits: 93.76; accuracy
and recall of stems:
89.34 and 94.47;
computing
time: 40 ms
Strawberry (Mask R-CNN)/Chinese researchers
Yu, Y. et al., (2019) [65] perform a visual
localization method for strawberry picking
points after generating mask images of ripe fruits
using Mask R-CNN. ResNet-50 is adopted as the
backbone network, combined with the FPN for
fruit feature extraction. The RPN is trained
end-to-end to create region proposals for each
feature map
×
Total: 1900;
train: 1520;
val: 380;
test: 100
640 × 480
Hand-held
digital camera
Different periods
(morning and
afternoon); under
varying light
intensity (sunny
and cloudy
conditions);
different levels of
interference
(overlap, occlusion,
and oscillation)
Although the
average processing
frames per second is
8, the speed of the
embedded mobile
harvesting robot is
lower than this result.
Therefore, the
real-time
performance of the
model needs to be
further improved
Average detection
precision: 95.78;
recall: 95.41; IoU of
instance
segmentation: 89.85;
average error
of picking
points: ±1.2 mm
En* represents data enhancement.

Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625
15 of 33
2.1. Single-Stage Fruit Detection and Recognition Methods Based on Regression
2.1.1. Fruit Detection and Recognition Methods Based on YOLO
YOLO is one of the most classic and advanced fruit detection algorithms. It can detect
and classify target fruits simultaneously in a single image. As shown in Figure 12, YOLO-v1
was the beginning. YOLO-v1 was proposed by American researchers Redmon, J. et al. in
2015 [66]. YOLO-v2 was proposed by American researchers Redmon, J. and Farhadi, A. in
2017 [67]. It included improvements to the structure of YOLO-v1. The K-means clustering
algorithm was used to determine the optimal number of anchor boxes and to analyze the
relationship between recognition accuracy and speed. Then, they also proposed YOLO-
v3 [68], which featured improvements such as the Darknet-53 backbone network and
multi-scale prediction. Bochkovskiy, A. et al., (2020) [69] systematically analyzed the
processes of data preprocessing and the design of detection and prediction networks. Based
on the analysis, they designed an efﬁcient target detector (YOLO-v4) suitable for a single
graphics card. YOLO-v5 [70] provided four different sizes of target detectors to meet the
needs of different applications. YOLOR [71], YOLOX [72], YOLO-v6 [73], YOLO-v7 [74],
and YOLO-v8 [75] also appeared one after another. YOLO-v8 is a SOTA model. It was open-
sourced on January 10, 2023. The framework is shown in Figure 13. Speciﬁc innovations
include a new backbone network, a new anchor-free detection head, and a new loss function
that can run on various hardware platforms from CPU to GPU.
 
Figure 12. Main research processes of YOLO.
Fruit detection and recognition methods based on YOLO are widely used, by virtue of
their advantages. Chinese researchers Xiong, J. et al., (2020) [76] proposed a method based
on YOLO-v2 to detect and count mangoes in fruit images taken by an UAV. The processing
time is 80ms, and the average detection accuracy is 96.1%. British researchers Birrell,
S. et al., (2020) [77] proposed a method based on YOLO-v3 to detect and classify cabbages
in four growth stages, achieving a total detection accuracy of 91% and a classiﬁcation
accuracy of 82%. In order to create an even more lightweight fruit detection model, Chinese
researchers Li, C. et al., (2022) [58] proposed an improved YOLO-v3-tiny fruit detection
model based on K-means 3D clustering partitioning for small and densely packed lychee
fruits, and compared it with other fruit detection networks (YOLO-v3-tiny, YOLO-v4,
YOLO-v5, and Faster R-CNN). The improved YOLOv3-tiny can recognize lychee fruits

Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625
16 of 33
more accurately. The check-all rate, check-accuracy rate, and F1 score are 78.99%, 87.43%,
and 0.83, respectively. However, fruit detection and recognition methods based on YOLO
do not use prior information when predicting fruit positions. This results in a loss of fruit
location accuracy. In addition, when YOLO predicts detection results corresponding to
each bounding box, it requires that the target fruit’s center point must be located inside
the bounding box. This imposes a strong spatial constraint on the prediction process of
YOLO and makes fruit detection and recognition methods based on YOLO less effective
at detecting small target fruits that appear in groups. In the future, we can input and
fuse semantic information (such as fruit scene and context-related information) into fruit
detection algorithms to greatly improve fruit detection accuracy. For example, Chinese
researchers Miao, Z. et al., (2022) [59] integrated classic image processing methods with
YOLO-v5 to increase fruit detection accuracy and robustness. A tomato-harvesting robot
can be guided to efﬁciently harvest truss tomatoes, with an average operating time of 9 s
per cluster.
 
Figure 13. YOLO-v8 framework (image reprinted with permission from ref. [78]. 2023, Lou, H.).
2.1.2. Fruit Detection and Recognition Methods Based on SSD
SSD was proposed by American researchers Liu, W. et al. in 2016 [79]. A typical
SSD framework for fruit detection and recognition is shown in Figure 14. It consists of a
base network (such as VGG-16) and an additional set of convolutional and pooling layers
for fruit feature extraction and detection. It also includes an NMS layer for ﬁltering and
selecting the detection results. It borrows the idea of multi-scale fruit detection. Fruit
detection tasks are accomplished by generating multiple fruit feature maps of different
scales during the fruit detection process. The network model calculates conﬁdence scores
for each category in predicted boxes and ground truth boxes, respectively. Then, an NMS
operation is performed on the calculated scores of each prediction boxes. Finally, top-ranked
prediction boxes are outputted as the ﬁnal result of fruit detection.
Validated on multiple fruit datasets, fruit detection and recognition methods based
on SSD have high accuracy and speed. Vasconez, J.P. et al. (including Chilean researchers
and a researcher based in America) (2020) [60] evaluated two of the most widely used
architectures (Faster R-CNN with Inception V2 and SSD with MobileNet) for fruit detection.
The former achieves 4.55 FPS, whereas the latter achieves a signiﬁcantly higher perfor-
mance of approximately 16.67 FPS. However, it is worth noting that fruit detection and
recognition methods based on SSD preprocess input fruit images, which may lead to lower
fruit detection accuracy for relatively small target fruits when passing through deeper
convolutional layers. Chinese researchers Liang, Q. et al., (2018) [80] proposed a real-time
detection method for on-tree mangoes based on SSD. New sampling strategies were de-

Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625
17 of 33
signed to optimize data augmentation techniques. With optimized data augmentation
techniques and default box proposals, SSD outperforms Faster R-CNN in mango detection.
Detection results for an almond dataset further conﬁrm the effectiveness of the proposed
method. However, it is important to note that the proposed method has deeper layers
and a larger number of parameters. This results in slower operation speed and longer
computation time.
 
Figure 14. Typical SSD framework for fruit detection and recognition.
In general, fruit detection and recognition methods based on SSD also have certain
disadvantages. They independently input fruit image features, extracted by different
convolutional layers, into corresponding network detection branches. This means that
the same fruits in detected images may be identiﬁed by bounding boxes of different sizes
simultaneously, which can easily lead to the problem of repeated detection. Additionally,
each detection branch only operates on target fruits in its respective ﬁeld, making it difﬁcult
to consider the relationship between target fruits of different layers and scales. Therefore,
the detection effect of fruit detection and recognition methods based on SSD on small target
fruits is not good. Further research could improve SSD in detector frameworks, prediction
mechanisms, matching mechanisms, and loss functions.
2.2. Two-Stage Fruit Detection and Recognition Methods Based on Candidate Regions
2.2.1. Fruit Detection and Recognition Methods Based on AlexNet, VGGNet, and ResNet
Typical AlexNet, VGGNet, and ResNet frameworks for fruit detection and recogni-
tion are shown in Figure 15. AlexNet was proposed by American researchers Krizhevsky,
A. et al. in 2012 [81]. It is the ﬁrst DL framework that extends CNN to the ﬁeld of CV.
Compared with techniques based on digital image processing and traditional ML, fruit
detection and recognition methods based on AlexNet have great advantages in terms of
accuracy. Chinese researchers Zhu, L. et al., (2018) [82] proposed a highly effective method
for vegetable classiﬁcation based on AlexNet. The accuracy achieved in the testing set
was signiﬁcantly improved compared to the BP neural network (78%) and SVM classiﬁer
method (80.5%), with a remarkable accuracy of 92.1%. Indian researchers Rangarajan,
A.K. et al., (2018) [83] demonstrated that the classiﬁcation accuracy of 13,262 fruit images
was 97.49% for AlexNet. Fruit detection and recognition methods based on AlexNet have
gained widespread acceptance due to their advantages. By modifying the size of the convo-
lutional kernel and convolutional layer, fruit detection accuracy can be effectively improved.
For example, Chinese researchers Ni, J. et al., (2021) [52] improved AlexNet by proposing
a new architecture—E-AlexNet. The new architecture enhanced the convolutional layer,
reduced kernel size, and used L2 regularization and a BN layer instead of LRN layer.
E-AlexNet was compared with the original AlexNet by classifying ﬁve strawberry varieties
with different qualities. The average recognition accuracy of E-AlexNet was 90.70%, while
that of the original AlexNet was 84.50%.

Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625
18 of 33
Figure 15. Typical AlexNet, VGGNet, and ResNet frameworks for fruit detection and recognition.
VGGNet was proposed by American researchers Simonyan, K. and Zisserman, A. in
2014 [84]. It has high accuracy in fruit detection and recognition. The biggest improve-
ment of VGGNet is the depth of the network, which has been increased from 8 layers to
16 or 19 layers. Additionally, VGGNet uses a 3 × 3 convolution kernel to replace the large
convolution kernels (11 × 11, 7 × 7, 5 × 5) in AlexNet. In the case of the same receptive
ﬁeld, the accumulation effect of the small convolution kernel is better than that of the large
convolution kernel. For example, Indian researchers Mahmood, A. et al., (2022) [85] as-

Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625
19 of 33
sessed the effectiveness of two CNN paradigms (AlexNet and VGG-16) in classifying jujube
fruits based on their maturity level (unripe, ripe, and overripe). The best accuracy achieved
by VGG-16 was 97.65%. Indian researchers Begum, N. and Hazarika, M.K. (2022) [86] used
several fruit detection models (VGG-16, VGG-19, Inception V3, ResNet-101, and ResNet-
152) to classify three tomato classes (immature, partially mature, and mature). VGG-19 had
the best classiﬁcation accuracy of 97.37% at epoch 50 and batch size 32. Chinese researchers
Pérez-Pérez, B.D. et al., (2021) [87] pre-trained seven CNN architectures (AlexNet, VGG-16,
VGG-19, ResNet-50, ResNet-101, ResNet-152, and Inception V3) using the ImageNet dataset.
VGG-19, with the Adam optimizer, is the one that reported the best accuracy (99.32%).
In order to further improve the accuracy and speed of fruit detection and recognition,
Chinese researchers Li, Z. et al., (2020) [88] proposed a fruit recognition and classiﬁcation
method based on VGG-M and VGG-M-BN. On the basis of the original VGG, VGG-M
combined the output features of the ﬁrst two fully connected layers. VGG-M-BN had
the BN layer added. The convergence rate of VGG-M-BN is nearly three times faster.
The quality of datasets, batch size, and different activation functions also inﬂuence fruit
recognition and classiﬁcation accuracy. Firstly, they used VGG-M-BN to train different
numbers of vegetable datasets. Recognition accuracy decreases as the quality of datasets
decreases. Secondly, by contrasting activation functions, they veriﬁed that the rectiﬁed
linear unit (ReLU) activation function is better than the traditional Sigmoid and Tanh
functions in VGG-M-BN. Finally, they veriﬁed that the fruit recognition and classiﬁcation
accuracy of VGG-M-BN increases as the batch size increases.
ResNet was proposed by American researchers He, K. et al. in 2015 [89]. It has a
high pattern recognition capability. According to the number of backbone layers, ResNet
can be further subdivided into ResNet-18, ResNet-50, ResNet-101, and ResNet-152. Fruit
detection and recognition methods based on ResNet are widely used, by virtue of their
advantages. Helwan, A. et al., (including Lebanese researchers and researchers based in
Turkey) (2019) [90] performed automatic segmentation of bananas based on ResNet. Wang,
D. et al., (including Chinese researchers and a researcher based in America) (2020) [55]
developed a remote apple horizontal diameter detection system based on ResNet to achieve
automatic measurement of apples throughout the entire growth period.
Capturing fruit feature information on multiple scales is one way to address the prob-
lem that target fruits are overlapped and occluded by branches and leaves. American
researchers Rahnemoonfar, M. and Sheppard, C. (2017) [91] optimized the structure of
Inception-ResNet. The Improved-Inception-ResNet can count efﬁciently, even if fruits are
under shadow, overlapped, and occluded by leaves. However, although the above fruit
detection and recognition methods have high accuracy, they are slow. To address this prob-
lem, Australian researchers Kang, H. and Chen, C. (2020) [92] introduced an enhanced deep
neural network DaSNet-v2 with ResNet. It has the ability to carry out both detection and
instance segmentation of fruits, alongside semantic segmentation of branches. To further
improve the speed of fruit detection and meet the real-time requirements of harvesters,
Australian researchers Kang, H. and Chen, C. (2019) [93] constructed a multifunctional
network for the real-time detection and semantic segmentation of apples and branches.
They combined it with the lightweight backbone of ResNet-101 to improve the real-time
computational performance of the fruit detection model.
2.2.2. Fruit Detection and Recognition Methods Based on R-CNN, Fast R-CNN, and
Faster R-CNN
Typical R-CNN, Fast R-CNN, and Faster R-CNN frameworks for fruit detection and
recognition are shown in Figure 16. R-CNN was proposed by American researchers
Girshick, R. et al. in 2014 [94]. It is the ﬁrst algorithm to successfully apply DL to object
detection and recognition. Fast R-CNN was proposed by American researcher Girshick,
R, one of the creators of R-CNN, in 2015 [95]. It solves some problems of its predecessor,
such as slow speed and a large overlap of proposal boxes. One of the key innovations of
Fast R-CNN is the “RoI pooling layer”, which operates by taking CNN feature maps and

Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625
20 of 33
regions of interest as inputs and providing the corresponding features for each region. This
allows Fast R-CNN to extract fruit features from all regions of interest in fruit images in a
single pass, instead of R-CNN processing each region separately. It signiﬁcantly improves
the speed of fruit detection and recognition. However, Fast R-CNN still requires regions of
fruit images to be extracted and provided as inputs to fruit detection models.
Faster R-CNN was proposed by American researchers Ren, S. et al. in 2016 [96]. It takes
images of fruits as inputs and returns a list of fruit classes, along with their corresponding
bounding boxes. Its main innovation is the “RPN”. By integrating region detection into the
main neural network structure, Faster R-CNN achieves near real-time detection speed with
high accuracy and generalization capability.
The fruit detection performance obtained by Faster R-CNN may outperform other
networks (YOLOv3, SSD, and ReFCN) [97]. Therefore, fruit detection and recognition
methods based on Faster R-CNN are widely used. Chinese researcher Wan, S. and Greek
researcher Goudos, S. (2020) [98] proposed a multi-class fruit (apple, mango, and orange)
detection method based on Faster R-CNN. The average detection accuracy was 90.72%,
and the image processing time was 58ms. Fu, L. et al., (including Chinese researchers and
researchers based in America) (2018) [99] proposed a kiwifruit detection method based on
Faster R-CNN and evaluated it on kiwifruit images collected in ﬁeld environments. Zhang,
J. et al., (including Chinese researchers and researchers based in America) (2020) [100] used
Faster R-CNN to improve a multi-class fruit detection method. They aimed to automatically
detect apples, branches, and tree trunks in natural environments and estimate the bobbing
locations of collected and captured apples.
Under changing lighting conditions, with low resolution, and with severe occlusion
by adjacent fruits and leaves, fruit detection and recognition are very challenging tasks. To
solve the problem, Chinese researchers Wang, P. et al., (2021) [57] proposed an improved
Faster R-CNN with an attention mechanism based on a near-color background for young
tomato detection and recognition. Small target fruit detection and recognition are also very
challenging tasks. To solve this problem, in the localization phase, Chinese researchers Cao,
C. et al., (2019) [101] proposed an improved loss function based on intersection and ratio for
bounding box regression. Additionally, in the recognition phase, the bilinear interpolation
method is used to improve the pooling operation of interest regions.
2.2.3. Fruit Detection and Recognition Methods Based on FCN, SegNet, and Mask R-CNN
FCN was proposed by American researchers Long, J. et al. in 2015 [102]. A typical
FCN framework for fruit detection and recognition is shown in Figure 17. FCN classiﬁes
fruit images at the pixel level and solves the problem of semantic image segmentation.
FCN replaces the fully connected layer of the original CNN with the convolutional layer so
that the output will be a heatmap instead of a category. Meanwhile, to solve the problem of
smaller image size due to convolution and pooling, up-sampling is used to recover image
size. Chinese researchers Lin, G. et al., (2019) [61], German researchers Zabawa, L. et al.,
(2019) [103], and Li, Y. et al., (including Chinese researchers and a researcher based in
Germany) (2017) [104] used FCN for the semantic segmentation of guava, grape, and
cotton, respectively. Although guava can be segmented easily, the branch is a little difﬁcult
to segment. They also compared FCN with SegNet and classiﬁcation and regression tree
classiﬁer (CART). FCN outperforms the other two methods. However, FCN makes some
false predictions due to the effects of overlaps and changing lighting conditions. American
researchers Chen, S.W. et al., (2017) [105] proposed a method based on FCN for accurate
fruit counting in complex natural environments. The method works well even under highly
shaded conditions. Furthermore, American researchers Liu, X. et al., (2018) [106] combined
deep convolutional segmentation to accurately count sequential images of visible fruits.

Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625
21 of 33
Figure 16. Typical R-CNN, Fast R-CNN, and Faster R-CNN frameworks for fruit detection and recognition.

Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625
22 of 33
Figure 17. Typical FCN framework for fruit detection and recognition (Source: https://github.com/
Alpharouk (accessed on 5 January 2023).
In general, fruit detection and recognition methods based on FCN can accept fruit
image inputs of arbitrary size, and the recognition efﬁciency is higher. They avoid the prob-
lem of repeated storage and computational convolution caused by the use of pixel blocks.
They reduce the computational effort of the whole fruit detection operation. However, the
recognition accuracy is not high because they are insensitive to the details in fruit images,
and the classiﬁcation does not consider inter-pixel relationships.
SegNet was proposed by British researchers Badrinarayanan, V. et al. in 2017 [107].
A typical SegNet framework for fruit detection and recognition is shown in Figure 18. It
follows the segmentation idea of FCN and is a symmetric network model with a supervised
coding and decoding structure. SegNet can handle fruit image inputs of arbitrary sizes.
The coding part reduces the size of input fruit images and the number of parameters
stage by stage through maximum pooling, and records the pooling index positions in
the fruit images. In order to ensure consistency in resolution between input and output
fruit images, decoding processes recover fruit image information through up-sampling.
Finally, it outputs semantic segmentation results through the SoftMax classiﬁer. The major
difference between SegNet and FCN is the method used for up-sampling low-resolution
feature maps to high-resolution feature maps.
 
Figure 18. Typical SegNet framework for fruit detection and recognition (image reprinted with
permission from ref. [108]. 2020, Peng, H.).

Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625
23 of 33
Harvesting robots usually operate in complex natural environments, and the random
growth of trunks and branches poses a challenge for fruit detection and recognition. Majeed,
Y. et al., (including American researchers and a researcher based in China) (2018) [109]
developed a trunk and branch segmentation method using a Kinect V2 sensor. Harvesting
robots need to optimize the position of the end effector based on the position and angle
between fruits and robot components before approaching, grasping, and cutting target
fruits. For this purpose, Dutch researchers Barth, R. et al., (2019) [110] proposed inferring
the position of fruits and stems through sparse semantic segmentation in the image plane.
In addition, to improve the efﬁciency of fruit detection and enhance real-time performance,
Australian researchers Kang, H. and Chen, C. (2019) [93] used a semantic segmentation
network to detect and segment apples and branches in an orchard in real-time. Meanwhile,
in order to enable harvesting robots to simultaneously recognize and locate multiple target
fruit clusters, Chinese researchers Li, J. et al., (2020) [62] proposed a semantic segmentation
method to segment fruit RGB images into three categories: background, fruit, and branch.
The method achieved accurate and automatic detection of fruits and branches of multiple
lychee clusters in complex natural environments and guided robots to complete continuous
harvesting tasks.
Mask R-CNN was proposed by American researchers He, K. et al. in 2017 [111]. A
typical Mask R-CNN framework for fruit detection and recognition is shown in Figure 19.
It consists of three parts. Firstly, the backbone network extracts fruit feature maps from
input fruit images. Secondly, the fruit feature maps outputted by the backbone network
are sent to the RPN to generate proposals. Finally, the proposals outputted by the RPN are
mapped, and the corresponding target fruit features are extracted from the shared feature
maps. These features are outputted to the FC and FCN for fruit classiﬁcation and instance
segmentation, respectively. The process generates classiﬁcation conﬁdence, bounding
boxes, and mask images.
Mask R-CNN combines semantic segmentation with object detection by outputting
mask images. This improves the localization accuracy of small target fruits, as well as the
prediction accuracy of mask images. Fruit detection and recognition methods based on
Mask R-CNN have better robustness and generality for fruit detection and recognition, es-
pecially in situations of clustered fruit growth. Chinese researchers Yu, Y. et al., (2019) [65]
and Jia, W. et al., (2020) [112] used a Mask R-CNN instance segmentation network model
to recognize overlapping strawberries and apples, respectively. They can determine not
only categories but also individuals. Since some ripe green tomatoes are similar in color
to branches and leaves, shaded by branches and leaves, or overlapped by other tomatoes,
accurate detection and localization of these tomatoes is difficult. Chinese researchers
Zu, L. et al., (2021) [113] proposed using Mask R-CNN for the detection and segmentation
of ripe green tomatoes. The research results showed the effectiveness of the method. The
best model performance was achieved when the IoU was 0.5, and the F1-score of both
the testing set bounding box and the masked region reached 92%. Chinese researchers
Xu, P. et al., (2022) [64] proposed an improved Mask R-CNN network model for the
recognition of cherry tomatoes, considering the prior neighborhood constraint between
fruits and stalks.
In the future, improvements in fruit detection and recognition methods based on
Mask R-CNN should focus on integrating more convolutions to improve performance,
and reducing the computational complexity of multi-head attention in the transformer.
In addition, multimodal fruit detection methods could be adopted to design Mask R-
CNN fruit detection models based on vision, LiDAR, millimeter-wave radar, and other
multisensor fusion technologies.

Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625
24 of 33
Figure 19. Typical Mask R-CNN framework for fruit detection and recognition (image reprinted with
permission from ref. [114]. 2020, Ni X.).
3. Discussion
Currently, there are many factors leading to low accuracy, slow speed, and poor
robustness of fruit detection and recognition. They can be summarized in the following
aspects: scarcity of high-quality fruit datasets, detection of small target fruits, fruit detection
in occluded and dense scenarios, detection of multi-scale and multi-species fruits, and
lightweight fruit detection models.
(1) Scarcity of high-quality fruit datasets. Fruit datasets, as signal sources to guide fruit
detection algorithms based on DL for information understanding [41], largely determine
the ﬁnal performance of trained fruit detection models. Fruit detection and recognition
methods based on DL have two requirements for datasets. One is the sufﬁciency of data,
and the other is the richness of data categories. Fruit datasets are mainly collected in real
ﬁeld environments and through internet channels. A comparison of the advantages and
shortcomings of the two collection methods is shown in Table 4. In order to objectively
compare the performance of fruit detection and recognition methods, as shown in Table 5,
international communities provide some public benchmark datasets. Different fruit datasets
have signiﬁcant differences in the number, quality, and category of images. Researchers
can choose compatible fruit datasets for experiments according to their needs. The Fruits-
360 dataset is the most commonly used public benchmark dataset. The total number of
categories in this dataset is as high as 131, and the total amount of images is considerable.
However, it suffers from the problems of single-image backgrounds, insufﬁcient data
diversity, and category imbalance.
Table 4. Comparison of fruit image collection methods.
Types
Methods
Advantages
Shortcomings
Real fruit detection
environment
Hand-held camera
High image quality of fruits;
close to real scenes
The process of shooting is
time-consuming and laborious; fruit
image quality is unstable; fruit image
quantization and contrast are difﬁcult
UGV
UAV
Internet channel
--
No need for a camera; easy
and fast collection
There are situations such as blurred
images and incorrect labels; data cleaning
and inspection are required

Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625
25 of 33
Table 5. Some frequently used fruit image databases.
Datasets
Samples
Species
Web-Link
Year
Total
Training Set
Testing Set
Fruit images of
MS COCO
-
-
-
-
https://cocodataset.org/#download
(accessed on 6 March 2023)
2017
Fruit images of
ImageNet
-
-
-
-
https://image-net.org/challenges/LSVRC/
index.php
(accessed on 6 March 2023)
2012
Fruits-360
90,380
67,692
22,688
131
(100 × 100 pixels)
www.kaggle.com/datasets/moltean/fruits
(accessed on 16 February 2023)
2020
Fruit-A
22,495
16,854
5641
33
(100 × 100 pixels)
www.kaggle.com/datasets/sshikamaru/fruit-
recognition
(accessed on 16 February 2023)
2022
Fruit-B
21,000
15,000
vail: 3000
text: 3000
15
(224 × 224 pixels)
www.kaggle.com/datasets/misrakahmed/
vegetable-image-dataset
(accessed on 16 February 2023)
2021
Fruit quality
classiﬁcation
19,526
-
-
18 (256 × 256/
192 pixels)
www.kaggle.com/datasets/ryandpark/fruit-
quality-classiﬁcation
(accessed on 16 February 2023)
2022
Fresh and rotten
fruits
13,599
10,901
2698
6
www.kaggle.com/datasets/sriramr/fruits-
fresh-and-rotten-for-classiﬁcation
(accessed on 16 February 2023)
2019
When public benchmark fruit detection datasets cannot meet practical needs, some
scholars have created individual fruit datasets to train a fruit detection model for fruit
detection and recognition in speciﬁc environments. In particular, most of the existing public
benchmark fruit detection datasets, such as fruit images of MS COCO and ImageNet, are
collected through internet channels. Many of these images differ greatly from actual fruit
recognition and harvesting situations. They consist of data from simple scenes, mainly for
large and medium-sized fruits. Additionally, datasets for small target fruit detection in
complex scenes are especially scarce. International communities might consider continually
providing and updating quality public benchmark fruit detection datasets, for example,
establishing a uniﬁed standard fruit data-sharing platform. The public can upload their fruit
images to the platform, and the platform organizes personnel to identify and annotate them.
Due to the scarcity of high-quality fruit datasets, there are potential directions for
development in the future: (1) Fruit detection and recognition methods based on small-
sample learning may be a key breakthrough. For certain fruit categories for which it is
difﬁcult to obtain a large number of samples, this method allows a small number of fruit
samples to be selected as representative of new fruit categories. Then, the inherent internal
connection between the base fruit class and the new fruit class is used to realize effective
knowledge transfer. (2) Fruit detection and recognition methods based on unsupervised
learning/semi-supervised learning may be another key breakthrough. Current methods
are mainly based on supervised learning, in which performance relies on a large amount of
labeled fruit data. In unsupervised/semi-supervised learning, the model is pre-trained on
the data with no or little labeled information.
(2) Detection of small target fruits. Fruits always grow in complex environments
with many uncertainties (as shown in Figure 20). We usually deﬁne a small target fruit
as being smaller than 32 × 32 pixels relative to the absolute size of the image it is in. The
difﬁculties of small target fruit detection are as follows: (1) Limited features that can be
extracted. Small target fruits have a small area share and low resolution in images, and they
contain limited features themselves. (2) Convolution operations can cause loss of small
target features. Fruit detection and recognition methods based on DL extract information
of interest about fruits by performing convolution operations on fruit images containing
a large amount of redundant information [50]. Fruit feature maps keep shrinking as the
number of convolutions increases. If the down-sampling rate is too high, a lot of detailed

Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625
26 of 33
information for small target fruit detection will be lost. (3) Requirements for the positioning
accuracy of the small target fruit bounding boxes are higher. Compared with large target
fruits, small target fruits are more sensitive to the offset of prediction boxes and less tolerant
of errors. (4) The scale of anchor boxes has not been designed properly. When the scale of
anchor boxes is too large, the area of small target fruits is reduced. Therefore, even if small
target fruits are within anchor frames, the IoU may not reach the threshold value, resulting
in missed detection. In addition, when the receptive ﬁeld is too large, the fruit detection
results are easily disturbed by a large number of other features. When the preset scale of
anchor boxes is too close, the spatial difference after down-sampling cannot be guaranteed,
resulting in small target fruits being ignored. (5) Sample imbalance. The IoU-based positive
and negative samples are considered negative if the IoU is smaller than the threshold. This
may lead to small target fruits being ignored in the process of model learning due to the
small number of positive samples. Small target fruits usually grow in clusters, which may
further cause occlusion and dense detection problems. When small target fruits appear
together with other scaled fruits, this gives rise to multi-scale detection problems.
 
(a) Single fruit 
(b) Multiple fruits 
(c) High degree of occlusion 
 
(d) Different background 
(e) Low light 
(f) Dense fruit aggregation 
Figure 20. Examples of fruit images acquired under different conditions (photos reprinted with
permission from ref. [48]. 2022, Chen J.).
Current solutions for small target fruit detection mainly include: (1) Increasing the
number of small target fruit samples through data preprocessing and enhancement, such
as in the research presented in [46,49,55,56,60,62–64]; (2) Generating higher-quality small
target fruit candidate regions by improving the RPN, such as in the research presented
in [56,57,65]; (3) Ensuring the sensory ﬁeld and small target fruit matching by optimizing
anchor boxes, such as in the research presented in [58,61,62]. Combining traditional
methods for small target fruit image detection may be a trend for future development.
Some small target fruit images contain little information, and they lack the necessary
semantic information. Fruit detection and recognition methods based on DL have limited
feature extraction ability for small target fruits at the pixel level. Therefore, traditional
feature extractors can be introduced to make them more capable of representing features of
fruit images. In addition, depth features extracted using CNN can also be combined with
traditional methods, such as saliency detection and superpixel segmentation, to obtain a
more effective fruit feature representation.

Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625
27 of 33
(3) Fruit detection in occluded and dense scenarios. Fruit growth environments
are usually complex. There are cases of inter-fruit occlusion and occlusion by shadows
or other distractions, such as branches and leaves. The difﬁculty of detecting fruits in
occluded and dense scenarios lies in improving the recall rate of the occluded target
fruits [29]. In overlapping cases, the main reasons for missing the detection of obscured
target fruits are: (1) Fruits are incomplete, and extractable fruit features are sharply reduced.
(2) Overlapping target fruits usually have highly similar features, and it is difﬁcult for fruit
detection models to determine whether they belong to different individuals. (3) The NMS
post-processing method directly discards objects with lower scores in overlapping regions.
For fruit detection in occluded and dense scenarios, the main method of improvement is to
enhance fruit feature extraction.
Commonly used methods to enhance the feature extraction capability of fruits are: (1) in-
creasing the width or depth of networks, such as in the research presented in [52,53,57,59].
However, this method will increase the computational load of models. This requires us
to strike a balance between performance improvement and computational cost increase.
(2) Adding attention mechanisms, such as in the research presented in [55–57]. The in-
troduction of attention mechanisms can help fruit detection models fully consider the
connection between each position of target fruits, effectively enhancing the ability of fruit
detection models to learn fruit features. Current scholars divide them into the channel
attention mechanism and spatial attention mechanism, according to the way the attention
acts on feature maps. In fruit detection models, common implementations of attention
mechanisms include squeeze-and-excitation networks (SENet) and the convolutional block
attention module (CBAM). However, adding an attention mechanism will make fruit de-
tection models more complex and increase convergence time. At the same time, adding
an attention mechanism requires careful consideration of whether the design principle of
attention, as well as the position and method of action, are suitable for current tasks. Other-
wise, it may have a negative impact on fruit detection models. How to reasonably design
and implement attention mechanisms, and efﬁciently use a wide range of environmental
features, are important research directions for the future.
(4) Detection of multi-scale and multi-species fruit. Most current fruit detection models
are solutions for speciﬁc crops. When the detected fruits appear on multiple scales or in
multiple types, it is difﬁcult to guarantee the model’s generalization ability. For the multi-
scale fruit detection problem, the multi-scale training method may be a key breakthrough.
It can enable fruit detection models to process fruit information at different scales and
improve their ability to capture cross-scale fruit information. Overall, the use of multi-
scale fruit prediction networks can make full use of receptive ﬁelds, which can effectively
alleviate the lack of scale invariance in convolutional neural networks. However, this also
increases the number of calculations, resulting in higher demand for hardware facilities.
For multi-category fruit detection problems, a common solution is to use transfer learning
technology to ﬁne-tune existing models. However, this may result in a loss of detection
accuracy for the original fruit categories. Adding a large amount of new category data to
the original dataset and retraining a new model can ensure the detection effectiveness of
the original fruit categories. However, every time a new category appears, it needs to be
trained from scratch. This not only consumes time and resources, but also cannot satisfy
complex, dynamic environments such as farmland orchards. For this problem, we believe
that introducing the idea of incremental learning can improve the generalization ability
and adaptive learning ability of fruit detection models.
(5) Lightweight fruit detection models. With the continuous development of the
ﬁeld of fruit detection and recognition, researchers are also committed to improving the
accuracy of fruit detection models, and the fruit detection models are gradually becoming
more complex. For example, some researchers add a super-resolution module to the
localization part of fruit detection networks. This may increase the computational load,
which, in turn, makes the fruit detection model more dependent on high-performance
computing resources. How to further optimize network structures, reduce the number of

Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625
28 of 33
model parameters, decrease computational complexity, improve running speed, and deploy
them on mobile devices are currently hot research topics. Model pruning, quantization,
knowledge distillation, and matrix decomposition are effective ways to achieve lightweight
and high efﬁciency. For example, the lightweight MobileNet [11] or ResNet-101 [23] are
used to replace the original backbone feature extraction network for fruit feature extraction.
At the same time, optimizing operators within frameworks and using AI chips in hardware
can greatly accelerate the running speed and parallelism of fruit detection models.
4. Conclusions
Fruit detection and recognition methods based on DL are the mainstream methods
for accurate, fast, and robust fruit detection and recognition. These methods are also an
important development trend. They are relatively less affected by environments. Our work
focuses on providing an overview and review of DL applied to fruit image recognition,
mainly in the areas of detection and classiﬁcation. In order to further deﬁne the study
areas of this paper, we identify fruit detection and classiﬁcation tasks as the determination
of the class based on their speciﬁc types. In general, current fruit detection and recogni-
tion methods based on DL can be divided into the following areas: methods based on
YOLO, SSD, AlexNet, VGGNet, ResNet, Faster R-CNN, FCN, SegNet, and Mask R-CNN.
These methods can also be classiﬁed into two categories: single-stage fruit detection and
recognition methods (YOLO, SSD) based on regression, and two-stage fruit detection and
recognition methods (AlexNet, VGGNet, ResNet, Faster R-CNN, FCN, SegNet, and Mask
R-CNN) based on candidate regions.
Most of the current research work is based on two-stage fruit detection and recognition
methods. Improvement and application research based on Faster R-CNN (21%) is currently
a hotspot. The recognition accuracy of fruit detection and recognition methods based
on Faster R-CNN is high, but the recognition speed is limited by complex anchor frame
mechanisms. When there are mobile deployment and high recognition speed requirements,
fruit detection and recognition methods based on YOLO (17%) are used most frequently.
Their recognition speed is fast, but the recognition effect on small target fruits is not very
good. In addition, ResNet (11%) is the most popular backbone network, followed by
AlexNet (7%). Most of the research focuses on apples (32.14%), followed by tomatoes
(8.93%), and citrus (7.14%). These three kinds of fruits are in high demand and yield
globally. There are some reasons that make them ideal candidates for automatic harvesting.
Firstly, they hang from plants individually, making them easily detectable based on their
distinctive features. Secondly, they have no extreme variations in size or weight. Lastly,
they are relatively hard and not easily damaged in mechanical operations. However, in
terms of fruit dimensions and peduncle length, different cultivars may exhibit different
characteristics that can affect fruit detection and recognition performance. This poses
challenges for adapting fruit detection and recognition methods for different cultivars.
Future work could aim to identify cultivars that are more suitable for automatic harvesting.
The scarcity of high-quality fruit datasets, detection of small target fruits, fruit detec-
tion in occluded and dense scenarios, detection of multiple scales and multiple species
of fruits, and lightweight fruit detection models are the current challenges of fruit de-
tection and recognition based on DL for automatic harvesting. The quality and scale of
fruit datasets, appropriate improvement strategies, and underlying model architectures
all have a signiﬁcant impact on the detection and recognition performance. For example,
fruit data preprocessing can standardize data by cleaning and adjusting them. Fruit data
augmentation can effectively expand data and increase data diversity, thereby reducing the
dependence on speciﬁc factors and improving model robustness. Fruit feature fusion is
conducive to alleviating the problem of fruit feature disappearance and improving the detec-
tion effect of small target fruits and multi-scale fruits. Building a multi-task learning model,
the original fruit detection framework is beneﬁcial for obtaining more fruit information by
combining other learning tasks. Moreover, establishing a parameter-sharing mechanism
through multi-task learning can signiﬁcantly improve the performance of fruit detection

Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625
29 of 33
and recognition. Two-stage fruit detection and recognition methods pursue faster speeds
and lighter weights while ensuring fruit detection accuracy. Single-stage fruit detection and
recognition methods improve fruit detection accuracy while maintaining the advantages
of detection speed and model size. Achieving higher fruit detection performance and a
balance between fruit detection precision and speed are current development trends.
Future research should prioritize addressing these current challenges and improv-
ing the accuracy, speed, robustness, and generalization of fruit vision detection systems,
while reducing the overall complexity and cost. This paper hopes to provide a reference
for follow-up research in the ﬁeld of fruit detection and recognition based on DL for
automatic harvesting.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, F.X.; methodology, F.X.; analysis, F.X. and Y.X.; investiga-
tion, F.X., Y.X., H.W. and R.Z.; resources, F.X. and H.W.; data curation, F.X.; writing—original draft
preparation, F.X.; writing—review and editing, F.X. and H.W.; visualization, F.X.; supervision, H.W.;
project administration, F.X. and H.W.; funding acquisition, H.W. All authors have read and agreed to
the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research was funded by the Natural Science Foundation of Heilongjiang Province of
China (LH2020C047) and China Postdoctoral Science Foundation (2019T120248).
Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.
Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
References
1.
Brown, J.; Sukkarieh, S. Design and Evaluation of a Modular Robotic Plum Harvesting System Utilizing Soft Components. J. Field
Robot. 2021, 38, 289–306. [CrossRef]
2.
Yan, B.; Fan, P.; Lei, X.; Liu, Z.; Yang, F. A Real-Time Apple Targets Detection Method for Picking Robot Based on Improved
YOLOv5. Remote Sens. 2021, 13, 1619. [CrossRef]
3.
He, L.; Fu, H.; Karkee, M.; Zhang, Q. Effect of Fruit Location on Apple Detachment with Mechanical Shaking. Biosyst. Eng. 2017,
157, 63–71. [CrossRef]
4.
Ji, W.; Zhao, D.; Cheng, F.; Xu, B.; Zhang, Y.; Wang, J. Automatic Recognition Vision System Guided for Apple Harvesting Robot.
Comput. Electr. Eng. 2012, 38, 1186–1195. [CrossRef]
5.
Zhao, D.; Lv, J.; Ji, W.; Zhang, Y.; Chen, Y. Design and Control of an Apple Harvesting Robot. Biosyst. Eng. 2011, 110, 112–122.
[CrossRef]
6.
Arad, B.; Balendonck, J.; Barth, R.; Ben-Shahar, O.; Edan, Y.; Hellström, T.; Hemming, J.; Kurtser, P.; Ringdahl, O.; Tielen, T.; et al.
Development of a Sweet Pepper Harvesting Robot. J. Field Robot. 2020, 37, 1027–1039. [CrossRef]
7.
Lehnert, C.; English, A.; McCool, C.; Tow, A.W.; Perez, T. Autonomous Sweet Pepper Harvesting for Protected Cropping Systems.
IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett. 2017, 2, 872–879. [CrossRef]
8.
Bac, C.W.; Hemming, J.; Van Henten, E.J. Stem Localization of Sweet-Pepper Plants Using the Support Wire as a Visual Cue.
Comput. Electron. Agric. 2014, 105, 111–120. [CrossRef]
9.
Xiong, Y.; Ge, Y.; Grimstad, L.; From, P.J. An Autonomous Strawberry-Harvesting Robot: Design, Development, Integration, and
Field Evaluation. J. Field Robot. 2020, 37, 202–224. [CrossRef]
10.
Xiong, Y.; Peng, C.; Grimstad, L.; From, P.J.; Isler, V. Development and Field Evaluation of a Strawberry Harvesting Robot with a
Cable-Driven Gripper. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2019, 157, 392–402. [CrossRef]
11.
Hayashi, S.; Shigematsu, K.; Yamamoto, S.; Kobayashi, K.; Kohno, Y.; Kamata, J.; Kurita, M. Evaluation of a Strawber-ry-
Harvesting Robot in a Field Test. Biosyst. Eng. 2010, 105, 160–171. [CrossRef]
12.
Xiong, J.; He, Z.; Lin, R.; Liu, Z.; Bu, R.; Yang, Z.; Peng, H.; Zou, X. Visual Positioning Technology of Picking Robots for Dynamic
Litchi Clusters with Disturbance. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2018, 151, 226–237. [CrossRef]
13.
Feng, Q.; Zou, W.; Fan, P.; Zhang, C.; Wang, X. Design and Test of Robotic Harvesting System for Cherry Tomato. Int. J. Agric.
Biol. Eng. 2018, 11, 96–100. [CrossRef]
14.
Kondo, N.; Yata, K.; Iida, M.; Shiigi, T.; Monta, M.; Kurita, M.; Omori, H. Development of an End-Effector for a Tomato Cluster
Harvesting Robot. Eng. Agric. Environ. Food 2010, 3, 20–24. [CrossRef]
15.
Williams, H.A.M.; Jones, M.H.; Nejati, M.; Seabright, M.J.; Bell, J.; Penhall, N.D.; Barnett, J.J.; Duke, M.D.; Scarfe, A.J.; Ahn,
H.S.; et al. Robotic Kiwifruit Harvesting Using Machine Vision, Convolutional Neural Networks, and Robotic Arms. Biosyst. Eng.
2019, 181, 140–156. [CrossRef]
16.
Xiao, F.; Wang, H.; Li, Y.; Cao, Y.; Lv, X.; Xu, G. Object Detection and Recognition Techniques Based on Digital Image Processing
and Traditional Machine Learning for Fruit and Vegetable Harvesting Robots: An Overview and Review. Agronomy 2023, 13, 639.
[CrossRef]

Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625
30 of 33
17.
Fu, L.; Gao, F.; Wu, J.; Li, R.; Karkee, M.; Zhang, Q. Application of Consumer RGB-D Cameras for Fruit Detection and Localization
in Field: A Critical Review. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2020, 177, 105687. [CrossRef]
18.
Okamoto, H.; Lee, W.S. Green Citrus Detection Using Hyperspectral Imaging. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2009, 66, 201–208.
[CrossRef]
19.
Wachs, J.P.; Stern, H.I.; Burks, T.; Alchanatis, V. Low and High-Level Visual Feature-Based Apple Detection from Multi-Modal
Images. Precis. Agric. 2010, 11, 717–735. [CrossRef]
20.
Rehman, T.U.; Mahmud, M.S.; Chang, Y.K.; Jin, J.; Shin, J. Current and Future Applications of Statistical Machine Learning
Algorithms for Agricultural Machine Vision Systems. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2019, 156, 585–605. [CrossRef]
21.
Patrício, D.I.; Rieder, R. Computer Vision and Artiﬁcial Intelligence in Precision Agriculture for Grain Crops: A Systematic
Review. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2018, 153, 69–81. [CrossRef]
22.
Yandun Narvaez, F.; Reina, G.; Torres-Torriti, M.; Kantor, G.; Cheein, F.A. A Survey of Ranging and Imaging Techniques for
Precision Agriculture Phenotyping. IEEE/ASME Trans. Mechatron. 2017, 22, 2428–2439. [CrossRef]
23.
Jha, K.; Doshi, A.; Patel, P.; Shah, M. A Comprehensive Review on Automation in Agriculture Using Artiﬁcial Intelligence. Artif.
Intell. Agric. 2019, 2, 1–12. [CrossRef]
24.
Wolfert, S.; Ge, L.; Verdouw, C.; Bogaardt, M.J. Big Data in Smart Farming—A Review. Agric. Syst. 2017, 153, 69–80. [CrossRef]
25.
Saleem, M.H.; Potgieter, J.; Arif, K.M. Plant Disease Detection and Classiﬁcation by Deep Learning. Plants 2019, 8, 468. [CrossRef]
26.
Wang, D.; Vinson, R.; Holmes, M.; Seibel, G.; Bechar, A.; Nof, S.; Tao, Y. Early Detection of Tomato Spotted Wilt Virus by
Hyperspectral Imaging and Outlier Removal Auxiliary Classiﬁer Generative Adversarial Nets (OR-AC-GAN). Sci. Rep. 2019,
9, 4377. [CrossRef]
27.
Wang, A.; Zhang, W.; Wei, X. A Review on Weed Detection Using Ground-Based Machine Vision and Image Processing Techniques.
Comput. Electron. Agric. 2019, 158, 226–240. [CrossRef]
28.
Lv, J.; Xu, H.; Xu, L.; Zou, L.; Rong, H.; Yang, B.; Niu, L.; Ma, Z. Recognition of Fruits and Vegetables with Similar-Color
Background in Natural Environment: A Survey. J. Field Robot. 2022, 39, 888–904. [CrossRef]
29.
Li, Y.; Feng, Q.; Li, T.; Xie, F.; Liu, C.; Xiong, Z. Advance of Target Visual Information Acquisition Technology for Fresh Fruit
Robotic Harvesting: A Review. Agronomy 2022, 12, 1336. [CrossRef]
30.
Aslam, F.; Khan, Z.; Tahir, A.; Parveen, K.; Albasheer, F.O.; Ul Abrar, S.; Khan, D.M. A Survey of Deep Learning Methods for
Fruit and Vegetable Detection and Yield Estimation. In Big Data Analytics and Computational Intelligence for Cybersecurity, 2nd ed.;
Ouaissa, M., Boulouard, Z., Ouaissa, M., Khan, I.U., Kaosar, M., Eds.; Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2022; Volume 111, pp. 299–323.
[CrossRef]
31.
Li, Z.; Yuan, X.; Wang, C. A Review on Structural Development and Recognition-Localization Methods for End-Effector of
Fruit-Vegetable Picking Robots. Int. J. Adv. Robot. Syst. 2022, 19, 17298806221104906. [CrossRef]
32.
Darwin, B.; Dharmaraj, P.; Prince, S.; Popescu, D.E.; Hemanth, D.J. Recognition of Bloom/Yield in Crop Images Using Deep
Learning Models for Smart Agriculture: A Review. Agronomy 2021, 11, 646. [CrossRef]
33.
Maheswari, P.; Raja, P.; Apolo-Apolo, O.E.; Pérez-Ruiz, M. Intelligent Fruit Yield Estimation for Orchards Using Deep Learning
Based Semantic Segmentation Techniques-A Review. Front. Plant Sci. 2021, 12, 684328. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
34.
Bhargava, A.; Bansal, A. Fruits and Vegetables Quality Evaluation Using Computer Vision: A Review. J. King Saud Univ. Comput.
Inf. Sci. 2021, 33, 243–257. [CrossRef]
35.
Saleem, M.H.; Potgieter, J.; Arif, K.M. Automation in Agriculture by Machine and Deep Learning Techniques: A Review of Recent
Developments. Precis. Agric. 2021, 22, 2053–2091. [CrossRef]
36.
Tang, Y.; Chen, M.; Wang, C.; Luo, L.; Li, J.; Lian, G.; Zou, X. Recognition and Localization Methods for Vision-Based Fruit Picking
Robots: A Review. Front. Plant Sci. 2020, 11, 510. [CrossRef]
37.
Jia, W.; Zhang, Y.; Lian, J.; Zheng, Y.; Zhao, D.; Li, C. Apple Harvesting Robot under Information Technology: A Review. Int. J.
Adv. Robot. Syst. 2020, 17, 1729881420925310. [CrossRef]
38.
Tripathi, M.K.; Maktedar, D.D. A Role of Computer Vision in Fruits and Vegetables among Various Horticulture Products of
Agriculture Fields: A Survey. Inf. Process. Agric. 2020, 7, 183–203. [CrossRef]
39.
Naranjo-Torres, J.; Mora, M.; Hernández-García, R.; Barrientos, R.J.; Fredes, C.; Valenzuela, A. A Review of Convolutional Neural
Network Applied to Fruit Image Processing. Appl. Sci. 2020, 10, 3443. [CrossRef]
40.
Koirala, A.; Walsh, K.B.; Wang, Z.; McCarthy, C. Deep Learning-Method Overview and Review of Use for Fruit Detection and
Yield Estimation. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2019, 162, 219–234. [CrossRef]
41.
Zhu, N.; Liu, X.; Liu, Z.; Hu, K.; Wang, Y.; Tan, J.; Huang, M.; Zhu, Q.; Ji, X.; Jiang, Y.; et al. Deep Learning for Smart Agriculture:
Concepts, Tools, Applications, and Opportunities. Int. J. Agric. Biol. Eng. 2018, 11, 32–44. [CrossRef]
42.
Martín-Martín, A.; Orduna-Malea, E.; Thelwall, M.; Delgado López-Cózar, E. Google Scholar, Web of Science, and Scopus: A
Systematic Comparison of Citations in 252 Subject Categories. J. Informetr. 2018, 12, 1160–1177. [CrossRef]
43.
Hinton, G.E.; Salakhutdinov, R.R. Reducing the Dimensionality of Data with Neural Networks. Science 2006, 313, 504–507.
[CrossRef] [PubMed]
44.
LeCun, Y.; Boser, B.; Denker, J.S.; Henderson, D.; Howard, R.E.; Hubbard, W.; Jackel, L.D. Backpropagation Applied to
Handwritten Zip Code Recognition. Neural Comput. 1989, 1, 541–551. [CrossRef]
45.
Lecun, Y.; Bottou, L.; Bengio, Y.; Haffner, P. Gradient-Based Learning Applied to Document Recognition. Proc. IEEE 1998, 86,
2278–2324. [CrossRef]

Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625
31 of 33
46.
Jahanbakhshi, A.; Momeny, M.; Mahmoudi, M.; Zhang, Y.D. Classiﬁcation of Sour Lemons Based on Apparent Defects Using
Stochastic Pooling Mechanism in Deep Convolutional Neural Networks. Sci. Hortic. 2020, 263, 109133. [CrossRef]
47.
Sakib, S.; Ashraﬁ, Z.; Sidique, A.B. Implementation of Fruits Recognition Classiﬁer Using Convolutional Neural Network
Algorithm for Observation of Accuracies for Various Hidden Layers. arXiv 2019, arXiv:1904.00783. [CrossRef]
48.
Chen, J.; Liu, H.; Zhang, Y.; Zhang, D.; Ouyang, H.; Chen, X. A Multiscale Lightweight and Efﬁcient Model Based on YOLOv7:
Applied to Citrus Orchard. Plants 2022, 11, 3260. [CrossRef]
49.
Khosravi, H.; Saedi, S.I.; Rezaei, M. Real-Time Recognition of on-Branch Olive Ripening Stages by a Deep Convolutional Neural
Network. Sci. Hortic. 2021, 287, 110252. [CrossRef]
50.
Quiroz, I.A.; Alférez, G.H. Image Recognition of Legacy Blueberries in a Chilean Smart Farm through Deep Learning. Comput.
Electron. Agric. 2020, 168, 105044. [CrossRef]
51.
Barbedo, J.G.A. Impact of Dataset Size and Variety on the Effectiveness of Deep Learning and Transfer Learning for Plant Disease
Classiﬁcation. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2018, 153, 46–53. [CrossRef]
52.
Ni, J.; Gao, J.; Li, J.; Yang, H.; Hao, Z.; Han, Z. E-AlexNet: Quality Evaluation of Strawberry Based on Machine Learning. Food
Meas. 2021, 15, 4530–4541. [CrossRef]
53.
Marani, R.; Milella, A.; Petitti, A.; Reina, G. Deep Neural Networks for Grape Bunch Segmentation in Natural Images from a
Consumer-Grade Camera. Precis. Agric. 2021, 22, 387–413. [CrossRef]
54.
Altaheri, H.; Alsulaiman, M.; Muhammad, G. Date Fruit Classiﬁcation for Robotic Harvesting in a Natural Environment Using
Deep Learning. IEEE Access 2019, 7, 117115–117133. [CrossRef]
55.
Wang, D.; Li, C.; Song, H.; Xiong, H.; Liu, C.; He, D. Deep Learning Approach for Apple Edge Detection to Remotely Monitor
Apple Growth in Orchards. IEEE Access 2020, 8, 26911–26925. [CrossRef]
56.
Tu, S.; Pang, J.; Liu, H.; Zhuang, N.; Chen, Y.; Zheng, C.; Wan, H.; Xue, Y. Passion Fruit Detection and Counting Based on Multiple
Scale Faster R-CNN Using RGB-D Images. Precis. Agric. 2020, 21, 1072–1091. [CrossRef]
57.
Wang, P.; Niu, T.; He, D. Tomato Young Fruits Detection Method under Near Color Background Based on Improved Faster
R-CNN with Attention Mechanism. Agriculture 2021, 11, 1059. [CrossRef]
58.
Li, C.; Lin, J.; Li, B.; Zhang, S.; Li, J. Partition Harvesting of a Column-Comb Litchi Harvester Based on 3D Clustering. Comput.
Electron. Agric. 2022, 197, 106975. [CrossRef]
59.
Miao, Z.; Yu, X.; Li, N.; Zhang, Z.; He, C.; Li, Z.; Deng, C.; Sun, T. Efﬁcient Tomato Harvesting Robot Based on Image Processing
and Deep Learning. Precis. Agric. 2022, 24, 254–287. [CrossRef]
60.
Vasconez, J.P.; Delpiano, J.; Vougioukas, S.; Auat Cheein, F. Comparison of Convolutional Neural Networks in Fruit Detection
and Counting: A Comprehensive Evaluation. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2020, 173, 105348. [CrossRef]
61.
Lin, G.; Tang, Y.; Zou, X.; Xiong, J.; Li, J. Guava Detection and Pose Estimation Using a Low-Cost RGB-D Sensor in the Field.
Sensors 2019, 19, 428. [CrossRef]
62.
Li, J.; Tang, Y.; Zou, X.; Lin, G.; Wang, H. Detection of Fruit-Bearing Branches and Localization of Litchi Clusters for Vision-Based
Harvesting Robots. IEEE Access 2020, 8, 117746–117758. [CrossRef]
63.
Majeed, Y.; Zhang, J.; Zhang, X.; Fu, L.; Karkee, M.; Zhang, Q.; Whiting, M.D. Deep Learning Based Segmentation for Automated
Training of Apple Trees on Trellis Wires. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2020, 170, 105277. [CrossRef]
64.
Xu, P.; Fang, N.; Liu, N.; Lin, F.; Yang, S.; Ning, J. Visual Recognition of Cherry Tomatoes in Plant Factory Based on Improved
Deep Instance Segmentation. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2022, 197, 106991. [CrossRef]
65.
Yu, Y.; Zhang, K.; Yang, L.; Zhang, D. Fruit Detection for Strawberry Harvesting Robot in Non-Structural Environment Based on
Mask-RCNN. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2019, 163, 104846. [CrossRef]
66.
Redmon, J.; Divvala, S.; Girshick, R.; Farhadi, A. You Only Look Once: Uniﬁed, Real-Time Object Detection. In Proceedings of the
2016 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), Las Vegas, NV, USA, 26 June–1 July 2016. [CrossRef]
67.
Redmon, J.; Farhadi, A. YOLO9000: Better, Faster, Stronger. In Proceedings of the 2017 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition (CVPR), Honolulu, HI, USA, 21–26 July 2017. [CrossRef]
68.
Redmon, J.; Farhadi, A. YOLOv3: An Incremental Improvement. arXiv 2018, arXiv:1804.02767. [CrossRef]
69.
Bochkovskiy, A.; Wang, C.Y.; Liao, H.Y.M. YOLOv4:
Optimal Speed and Accuracy of Object Detection.
arXiv 2020,
arXiv:2004.10934. [CrossRef]
70.
YOLOv5. Available online: https://github.com/ultralytics/yolov5 (accessed on 7 February 2023).
71.
Wang, C.Y.; Yeh, I.H.; Liao, H.Y.M. You Only Learn One Representation: Uniﬁed Network for Multiple Tasks. arXiv 2021,
arXiv:2105.04206. [CrossRef]
72.
Ge, Z.; Liu, S.; Wang, F.; Li, Z.; Sun, J. YOLOX: Exceeding YOLO Series in 2021. arXiv 2021, arXiv:2107.08430. [CrossRef]
73.
Li, C.; Li, L.; Jiang, H.; Weng, K.; Geng, Y.; Li, L.; Ke, Z.; Li, Q.; Cheng, M.; Nie, W.; et al. YOLOv6: A Single-Stage Object Detection
Framework for Industrial Applications. arXiv 2022, arXiv:2209.02976. [CrossRef]
74.
Wang, C.Y.; Bochkovskiy, A.; Liao, H.Y.M. YOLOv7: Trainable Bag-of-Freebies Sets New State-of-the-Art for Real-Time Object
Detectors. arXiv 2022, arXiv:2207.02696. [CrossRef]
75.
YOLOv8. Available online: https://github.com/ultralytics/ultralytics (accessed on 7 February 2023).
76.
Xiong, J.; Liu, Z.; Chen, S.; Liu, B.; Zheng, Z.; Zhong, Z.; Yang, Z.; Peng, H. Visual Detection of Green Mangoes by an Unmanned
Aerial Vehicle in Orchards Based on a Deep Learning Method. Biosyst. Eng. 2020, 194, 261–272. [CrossRef]

Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625
32 of 33
77.
Birrell, S.; Hughes, J.; Cai, J.Y.; Iida, F. A Field-Tested Robotic Harvesting System for Iceberg Lettuce. J. Field Robot. 2020, 37,
225–245. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
78.
Lou, H.; Duan, X.; Guo, J.; Liu, H.; Gu, J.; Bi, L.; Chen, H. DC-YOLOv8: Small-Size Object Detection Algorithm Based on Camera
Sensor. Electronics 2023, 12, 2323. [CrossRef]
79.
Liu, W.; Anguelov, D.; Erhan, D.; Szegedy, C.; Reed, S.; Fu, C.Y.; Berg, A.C. SSD: Single Shot MultiBox Detector. In Proceedings of
the Computer Vision–ECCV 2016: 14th European Conference, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 11–14 October 2016. [CrossRef]
80.
Liang, Q.; Zhu, W.; Long, J.; Wang, Y.; Sun, W.; Wu, W. A Real-Time Detection Framework for On-Tree Mango Based on SSD
Network. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Intelligent Robotics and Applications, Newcastle, NSW, Australia,
9–11 August 2018. [CrossRef]
81.
Krizhevsky, A.; Sutskever, I.; Hinton, G.E. ImageNet Classiﬁcation with Deep Convolutional Neural Networks. Commun. ACM
2017, 60, 84–90. [CrossRef]
82.
Zhu, L.; Li, Z.; Li, C.; Wu, J.; Yue, J. High Performance Vegetable Classiﬁcation from Images Based on AlexNet Deep Learning
Model. Int. J. Agric. Biol. Eng. 2018, 11, 217–223. [CrossRef]
83.
Rangarajan, A.K.; Purushothaman, R.; Ramesh, A. Tomato Crop Disease Classiﬁcation Using Pre-Trained Deep Learning
Algorithm. Procedia Comput. Sci. 2018, 133, 1040–1047. [CrossRef]
84.
Simonyan, K.; Zisserman, A. Very Deep Convolutional Networks for Large-Scale Image Recognition. arXiv 2015, arXiv:1409.1556.
[CrossRef]
85.
Mahmood, A.; Singh, S.K.; Tiwari, A.K. Pre-Trained Deep Learning-Based Classiﬁcation of Jujube Fruits According to Their
Maturity Level. Neural Comput. Appl. 2022, 34, 13925–13935. [CrossRef]
86.
Begum, N.; Hazarika, M.K. Maturity Detection of Tomatoes Using Transfer Learning. Meas. Food 2022, 7, 100038. [CrossRef]
87.
Pérez-Pérez, B.D.; García Vázquez, J.P.; Salomón-Torres, R. Evaluation of Convolutional Neural Networks’ Hyperparameters
with Transfer Learning to Determine Sorting of Ripe Medjool Dates. Agriculture 2021, 11, 115. [CrossRef]
88.
Li, Z.; Li, F.; Zhu, L.; Yue, J. Vegetable Recognition and Classiﬁcation Based on Improved VGG Deep Learning Network Model.
Int. J. Comput. Intell. Syst. 2020, 13, 559–564. [CrossRef]
89.
He, K.; Zhang, X.; Ren, S.; Sun, J. Deep Residual Learning for Image Recognition. In Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), Las Vegas, NV, USA, 26 June–1 July 2016. [CrossRef]
90.
Helwan, A.; Sallam Ma’aitah, M.K.; Abiyev, R.H.; Uzelaltinbulat, S.; Sonyel, B. Deep Learning Based on Residual Networks for
Automatic Sorting of Bananas. J. Food Qual. 2021, 2021, 5516368. [CrossRef]
91.
Rahnemoonfar, M.; Sheppard, C. Deep Count: Fruit Counting Based on Deep Simulated Learning. Sensors 2017, 17, 905. [CrossRef]
92.
Kang, H.; Chen, C. Fruit Detection, Segmentation and 3D Visualisation of Environments in Apple Orchards. Comput. Electron.
Agric. 2020, 171, 105302. [CrossRef]
93.
Kang, H.; Chen, C. Fruit Detection and Segmentation for Apple Harvesting Using Visual Sensor in Orchards. Sensors 2019,
19, 4599. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
94.
Girshick, R.; Donahue, J.; Darrell, T.; Malik, J. Rich Feature Hierarchies for Accurate Object Detection and Semantic Segmentation.
In Proceedings of the 2014 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), Columbus, OH, USA, 24–27
June 2014. [CrossRef]
95.
Girshick, R. Fast R-CNN. In Proceedings of the 2015 IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV), Santiago, Chile,
7–13 December 2015. [CrossRef]
96.
Ren, S.; He, K.; Girshick, R.; Sun, J. Faster R-CNN: Towards Real-Time Object Detection with Region Proposal Networks. IEEE
Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell. 2017, 39, 1137–1149. [CrossRef]
97.
Parvathi, S.; Tamil Selvi, S. Detection of Maturity Stages of Coconuts in Complex Background Using Faster R-CNN Model. Biosyst.
Eng. 2021, 202, 119–132. [CrossRef]
98.
Wan, S.; Goudos, S. Faster R-CNN for Multi-Class Fruit Detection Using a Robotic Vision System. Comput. Netw. 2020, 168, 107036.
[CrossRef]
99.
Fu, L.; Feng, Y.; Majeed, Y.; Zhang, X.; Zhang, J.; Karkee, M.; Zhang, Q. Kiwifruit Detection in Field Images Using Faster R-CNN
with ZFNet. IFAC Pap. 2018, 51, 45–50. [CrossRef]
100. Zhang, J.; Karkee, M.; Zhang, Q.; Zhang, X.; Yaqoob, M.; Fu, L.; Wang, S. Multi-Class Object Detection Using Faster R-CNN and
Estimation of Shaking Locations for Automated Shake-and-Catch Apple Harvesting. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2020, 173, 105384.
[CrossRef]
101. Cao, C.; Wang, B.; Zhang, W.; Zeng, X.; Yan, X.; Feng, Z.; Liu, Y.; Wu, Z. An Improved Faster R-CNN for Small Object Detection.
IEEE Access 2019, 7, 106838–106846. [CrossRef]
102. Long, J.; Shelhamer, E.; Darrell, T. Fully Convolutional Networks for Semantic Segmentation. In Proceedings of the 2015 IEEE
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), Boston, MA, USA, 7–12 June 2015. [CrossRef]
103. Zabawa, L.; Kicherer, A.; Klingbeil, L.; Milioto, A.; Topfer, R.; Kuhlmann, H.; Roscher, R. Detection of Single Grapevine Berries in
Images Using Fully Convolutional Neural Networks. In Proceedings of the 2019 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition Workshops (CVPRW), Long Beach, CA, USA, 16–17 June 2019. [CrossRef]
104. Li, Y.; Cao, Z.; Xiao, Y.; Cremers, A.B. DeepCotton: In-Field Cotton Segmentation Using Deep Fully Convolutional Network. J.
Electron. Imaging 2017, 26, 16. [CrossRef]

Agronomy 2023, 13, 1625
33 of 33
105. Chen, S.W.; Shivakumar, S.S.; Dcunha, S.; Das, J.; Okon, E.; Qu, C.; Taylor, C.J.; Kumar, V. Counting Apples and Oranges with
Deep Learning: A Data-Driven Approach. IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett. 2017, 2, 781–788. [CrossRef]
106. Liu, X.; Chen, S.W.; Aditya, S.; Sivakumar, N.; Dcunha, S.; Qu, C.; Taylor, C.J.; Das, J.; Kumar, V. Robust Fruit Counting Combining
Deep Learning, Tracking, and Structure from Motion. In Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent
Robots and Systems (IROS), Madrid, Spain, 1–5 October 2018. [CrossRef]
107. Badrinarayanan, V.; Kendall, A.; Cipolla, R. SegNet: A Deep Convolutional Encoder-Decoder Architecture for Image Segmentation.
IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell. 2017, 39, 2481–2495. [CrossRef]
108. Peng, H.; Xue, C.; Shao, Y.; Chen, K.; Xiong, J.; Xie, Z.; Zhang, L. Semantic Segmentation of Litchi Branches Using DeepLabV3+
Model. IEEE Access 2020, 8, 164546–164555. [CrossRef]
109. Majeed, Y.; Zhang, J.; Zhang, X.; Fu, L.; Karkee, M.; Zhang, Q.; Whiting, M.D. Apple Tree Trunk and Branch Segmentation
for Automatic Trellis Training Using Convolutional Neural Network Based Semantic Segmentation. IFAC Pap. 2018, 51, 75–80.
[CrossRef]
110. Barth, R.; Hemming, J.; Van Henten, E.J. Angle Estimation between Plant Parts for Grasp Optimisation in Harvest Robots. Biosyst.
Eng. 2019, 183, 26–46. [CrossRef]
111. He, K.; Gkioxari, G.; Dollar, P.; Girshick, R. Mask R-CNN. In Proceedings of the 2017 IEEE International Conference on Computer
Vision (ICCV), Venice, Italy, 22–29 October 2017. [CrossRef]
112. Jia, W.; Tian, Y.; Luo, R.; Zhang, Z.; Lian, J.; Zheng, Y. Detection and Segmentation of Overlapped Fruits Based on Optimized
Mask R-CNN Application in Apple Harvesting Robot. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2020, 172, 105380. [CrossRef]
113. Zu, L.; Zhao, Y.; Liu, J.; Su, F.; Zhang, Y.; Liu, P. Detection and Segmentation of Mature Green Tomatoes Based on Mask R-CNN
with Automatic Image Acquisition Approach. Sensors 2021, 21, 7842. [CrossRef]
114. Ni, X.; Li, C.; Jiang, H.; Takeda, F. Deep Learning Image Segmentation and Extraction of Blueberry Fruit Traits Associated with
Harvestability and Yield. Hortic. Res. 2020, 7, 110. [CrossRef]
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
