Towards Safe and Efficient Through-the-Canopy Autonomous Fruit
Counting with UAVs
Teaya Yang, Roman Ibrahimov and Mark W. Mueller
Abstract— We present an autonomous aerial system for safe
and efficient through-the-canopy fruit counting. Aerial robot
applications in large-scale orchards face significant challenges
due to the complexity of fine-tuning flight paths based on
orchard layouts, canopy density, and plant variability. Through-
the-canopy navigation is crucial for minimizing occlusion by
leaves and branches but is more challenging due to the complex
and dense environment compared to traditional over-the-canopy
flights. Our system addresses these challenges by integrating: i)
a high-fidelity simulation framework for global path planning,
ii) a low-cost autonomy stack for canopy-level navigation and
data collection, and iii) a robust workflow for fruit detection
and counting using RGB images. We validate our approach
through fruit counting with canopy-level aerial images and by
demonstrating the autonomous navigation capabilities of our
experimental vehicle.
I. INTRODUCTION
Fruit counting in orchards helps farmers make manage-
ment decisions, such as harvest scheduling, labor allocation,
and storage strategies [1]. With recent advances in precision
agriculture and remote sensing, robotic systems have demon-
strated great success in automating the counting process,
significantly reducing labor cost and enabling frequent crop
inspections.
In particular, fruit counting using sequences of RGB
images collected by autonomous systems through computer
vision algorithms [2] has enabled robots equipped with low-
cost sensors to perform yield estimation and prediction tasks.
For instance, [3] presents a method to reliably detect green
fruits using RGB images, in contrast to previous techniques
that relied on expensive multispectral sensors [4]. Robust
fruit detection of holly fruits, which are small and occur
in clusters, is demonstrated in [5], further highlighting the
capability of modern algorithms to extract valuable informa-
tion using only colored images. The You Only Look Once
(YOLO) algorithm [6] has become a prominent method in
fruit detection tasks [5]-[7], and its successive versions con-
tinue to lead advancements in this field. Building upon these
successes, we incorporate YOLO as the primary detection
tool for our proposed autonomous counting method.
Detection alone, however, is not sufficient for providing
reliable fruit counting results using visual data. The major
challenge in fruit counting with image sequence is the
risk of double counting, especially when the same fruit
appears multiple times across different frames. In [8], a
robust fruit counting framework that integrates detection,
The authors are with the High Performance Robotics Lab, Department
of Mechanical Engineering, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720,
USA.
Fig. 1.
Experimental vehicle flying autonomously at canopy level while
collecting visual data using a RGB camera. This figure is a composite image
showing multiple states of the vehicle during flight.
tracking, and structure from motion is outlined. Detected
fruits are used as features and tracked using the Hungarian
Algorithm [9], with the results serving as raw inputs for
the structure-from-motion step using COLMAP [10], [11].
We adopt this method in our work, tailoring it to data
collected from canopy-level flight, and incorporate up-to-date
tracking techniques. Specifically, we use ByteTrack [12] in
place of the Hungarian Algorithm to better maintain fruit
tracking, particularly in cases of low-confidence detections.
This approach is crucial when image quality is reduced due
to factors such as strong sunlight or motion blur, conditions
that are common in outdoor environments.
Despite the successes of computer vision techniques in
image processing, reliable data collection using autonomous
robotic systems remains a challenge. Previous efforts to
ensure the safety of robots include using UAVs to fly above
tree canopies [13], [14], enabling rapid data collection thanks
to their agility and maneuverability. An alternative solution
involves operating ground vehicles [15] between tree rows,
which has shown promise in counting large fruits in orchards
with wall-like canopies, where ground-level data is sufficient
to capture most fruits. Nevertheless, both methods miss
critical vantage points that are essential for detecting fruits
in trees with dense foliage. Flying at canopy level offers a
better solution, as illustrated in Figure 4, which compares
simulated fruit counting results in a walnut orchard. While
some works focusing on image processing collected data
using manually controlled canopy-level flights [16], [17]
addressed this challenge by using stereo images for obstacle
avoidance through onboard local planning. Our approach also
ensures safe autonomous navigation using minimal onboard
arXiv:2409.18293v2  [cs.RO]  16 May 2025

Fig. 2.
Block diagram of the proposed autonomous system, consisting of three main components: a simulation framework that leverages specified orchard
parameters (such as average tree height, tree spacing, and plant type) for global planning; onboard autonomy components that ensure safe and efficient
data collection; and a post-flight counting algorithm that processes the collected RGB images, producing the final fruit count.
sensors and a memoryless local planner, while providing a
more integrated solution by incorporating global planning
and a complete fruit counting workflow.
In the context of through-the-canopy flight, global plan-
ning methods are extremely limited. While [17] addresses the
challenges of safety and navigation, their approach to global
planning assumes fruit trees have wall-like properties and
applies coverage-path planning techniques commonly used in
structural inspection [18]. These methods are inadequate for
orchards with dense foliage, where fruits within the camera’s
field of view may be easily occluded by leaves and branches.
Effective path planning must account for these occlusions
to optimize fruit visibility. Previous efforts that consider
these spatial relationships, such as [19] and [20], focus on
inspecting individual fruit clusters from a close distance,
making these methods unsuitable for orchard-scale planning,
where hundreds of fruits may appear in a single image. More-
over, plant science research like [21] has shown that fruit
distribution varies across different levels of the tree canopy,
making it essential to account for both local and global fruit
distributions when planning paths at the orchard level. Our
proposed method provides a more comprehensive solution
to this planning problem by incorporating high-fidelity fruit
distribution and occlusion models, thereby optimizing flight
paths for efficient and large-scale data collection.
Our proposed system achieves autonomous fruit counting
in orchard environments through three main steps: global
planning based on high-fidelity modeling, data collection us-
ing an autonomous vehicle, and fruit detection and counting
from onboard RGB images. As illustrated in Figure 2, the
system begins with a simulation framework, described in
Section II, which uses high-fidelity tree models with realistic
architectures to compute visible fruit counts from predefined
flight paths. The next step, outlined in Section III, involves
data collection with an experimental vehicle equipped with
minimal sensors. This vehicle ensures safe, autonomous
operation through vision-based state estimation and depth-
image-based obstacle avoidance. Finally, Section IV presents
the fruit detection and counting workflow incorporating state-
of-the-art tools for detection, tracking, and structure from
motion to process collected RGB images.
Fig. 3.
Illustration of the occlusion checking process. Frustum culling
is first performed, where only the geometric primitives contained in the
camera’s field of view are considered. A ray is cast from the camera to
each contained fruit’s center, and a fruit is marked as visible only if the ray
does not intersect any surrounding mesh triangles.
II. ORCHARD SIMULATION FOR TRAJECTORY
GENERATION
In this section, we introduce the proposed simulation
framework, which provides insights into optimal global
trajectory parameters for data collection. A key element of
this framework is the realistic modeling of fruit trees and
their architectural structures, as accurate representation of
the spatial relationships between fruits and tree components
is essential for determining fruit visibility. To achieve this,
we use the Helios 3D plant modeling framework [23] and
its Weber-Penn [24] tree generation plug-in, which ensures
realistic and adaptable tree architecture generation.
Helios includes models for commonly seen fruit trees,
such as orange, walnut, almond, and apple, with built-in
parameters such as recursive branching levels, leaf angles,
and fruit occurrence that mimic real-world characteristics.
Additionally, the canopy generator plug-in allows users to
input custom parameters such as tree spacing, trunk height,
and fruit radius, which can be adjusted to match the condi-
tions of specific orchards. Since real orchards exhibit varying
tree types and spacing, these customizations are crucial

Fig. 4.
Simulation results comparing fruit counts using three distinct data collection strategies. (a)-(c) depict camera configurations for through-the-
canopy flight, over-canopy flight, and ground vehicle collection, respectively. (d) shows the lawn-mower pattern applied uniformly across all methods for
comparison. (e)-(g) present fruit counting results and the corresponding fruit distribution patterns. Data collection using the lawn-mower pattern in the
simulation captured 66%, 55%, and 34% of the total fruits for each method, respectively, highlighting the advantage of through-the-canopy data collection
using UAVs.
Algorithm 1 Visible Fruit Counting Algorithm
Require: C: Set of camera configurations
Require: T: Set of trees
Require: F: Set of fruits on tree Tj
Ensure: Detected fruits for each camera configuration Ci
1: for Ci ∈C do
2:
Compute camera frustum F(Ci)
3:
for Tj ∈T and Fk ∈F do
4:
if Fk is inside F(Ci) then
5:
Cast ray rCi→Fk
6:
for each triangle ∆∈Tj (leaves, branches,
trunks) do
7:
Check for ray-triangle intersection [22]
8:
if no intersection then
9:
V ←{Tj, Fk}
10:
end for
11:
end if
12:
end for
13: end for
14: nvisible ←|set(V )|
to creating a simulation environment tailored to specific
properties of the target orchard where autonomous fruit
counting will be performed.
In this simulation environment, all generated trunks,
branches, leaves, and fruits are constructed using triangular
meshes. Figure 3 illustrates selected details focusing on
the leaves, while Figure 5a provides examples of full tree
renderings. During this generation process, the mesh vertices
are stored, with each tree assigned a unique ID and each
fruit assigned a corresponding fruit ID. With this information
about the simulated orchard environment, we can perform
fruit visibility analysis for a given camera orientation. We
assume that branches, leaves, and trunks may obscure the
fruits. Given a path with discrete camera orientations and
parameters such as field of view and depth of view, the goal is
to determine the total number of visible fruits along the path.
This process is presented in Algorithm 1 and a visualization
of the occlusion checking process is shown in Figure 3.
The flight trajectories are defined by a set of camera
configurations, C. For each camera configuration, Ci, we
can construct a frustum F(Ci) with an associated field
of view and depth that simulates the maximum distance
at which a fruit may still be captured by the camera’s
resolution. For each tree Tj from the set of generated trees
T, there is an associated set of fruits denoted as F. Frustum
culling is first performed, ensuring that only fruits within the
camera’s view are checked for occlusion. For each Fk that
is contained, a ray rCi→Fk is cast from the camera location
toward the fruit’s center. We then iterate through the mesh
triangles of the surrounding geometric primitives, using the
M¨oller–Trumbore algorithm [22] to check for intersections.
If the ray intersects any triangle between the fruit and the
camera, the fruit is considered occluded. Figure 3 illustrates
this process with examples showing how occlusions are
determined by intersections with surrounding geometry. A
fruit that passes this occlusion check is marked as visible,
and its corresponding fruit ID, along with the associated
tree ID, is stored in a multiset V . While storing the fruit
and tree IDs is not strictly required for counting, doing so
provides additional insights into the spatial distribution of
visible fruits and their associations with specific trees. This
enriched data makes our method valuable not only for fruit
counting but also for other applications that benefit from
through-the-canopy data collection, such as identifying low-

Fig. 5.
Simulation results comparing fruit counting performance at
different through-the-canopy flight heights and camera configurations. (a)
Simulated trajectories tested at heights ranging from 1 m to 8 m, using two
configurations: a single front-facing camera and two side-facing cameras.
(b) Results showing fruit visibility at different flight heights, with optimal
heights of 6.5 m for the front-facing camera and 5 m for the side-facing
cameras. The two side-facing cameras achieve a maximum visible fruit
coverage of 45.4%, compared to 32.3% for the front-facing camera.
productivity zones or detecting diseases in trees [1].
The proposed simulation framework provides insights into
the effectiveness of different methods for collecting fruit
counting data. Figure 4 illustrates a simulated orchard with
10 walnut trees organized in 10 m by 5 m blocks, which
is used to compare three distinct data collection methods,
all following a lawn-mower pattern. The simulation includes
three camera configurations: a side-mounted camera on a
vehicle flying through the canopy, a downward-facing camera
on a UAV flying above the canopy, and an upward-facing
camera angled at 30 degrees from a 1-meter-tall ground
vehicle. The results suggest that the through-the-canopy
flight achieves the highest fruit visibility, capturing 66%
of the total fruits visible, compared to 55% for the over-
canopy flight and 36% for the ground vehicle, emphasizing
the need for canopy-level autonomous data collection for
this application. By recovering the positions of the fruits
through their recorded fruit IDs, this analysis also reveals
the distribution of visible fruits for each method, as shown in
purple in Figure 4. In practice, such insights can help users
optimize flight paths and data collection strategies before
deploying vehicles, reducing experimental costs and the need
for multiple iterations.
Building on the through-the-canopy flight strategy, we
apply the same occlusion model to optimize global trajectory
parameters and camera orientations. In Figure 5, we present
an example where a 7.6 m by 7.3 m orchard block is
repeatedly generated. In each simulation, the vehicle follows
a straight-line path down the center of the 7.6 m spacing,
and a range of flight heights from 1 m to 8 m is tested.
Two different camera configurations are also compared: one
front-facing camera and two side-facing cameras. The fruit
counting results for each trajectory and configuration are
computed and averaged across the 10 generated orchard
blocks. The results indicate that the optimal path height with
front-facing camera is 6.5 m, achieving a visual coverage
of 32.3% of all the fruits in the orchard block. In con-
trast, carrying two side-facing cameras provides significantly
greater coverage, reaching 45.4% at the optimal height of 5
m. It should be noted that the chosen straight-line trajectories
inevitably miss fruits on the opposite sides of the trees,
which are not covered by the UAV’s flight path, resulting
in lower overall percentage coverage compared to the pre-
vious example. Additionally, the two side-facing cameras
consistently result in higher fruit visibility across nearly all
through-the-canopy flight heights, making this configuration
a more effective solution for maximizing coverage. Our
proposed framework enables users to fine-tune flight paths
and camera configurations in simulation, reducing the cost
of experimental fine-tuning.
Additionally, the tools introduced in this section can be
applied to generate ground truth annotations for synthetic
visual data, facilitating the development and testing of vision
algorithms, such as those outlined in Section IV. By lever-
aging the known fruit IDs, the 3D positions of the fruits can
be accurately projected into the image frame, enabling the
creation of annotated datasets. When paired with synthetic
images generated by UAV simulators with integrated auton-
omy stacks, this approach supports comprehensive evaluation
of the entire autonomous system, from path planning to data
processing. For instance, these capabilities are supported by
our previous work on simulating autonomous flight systems
in agricultural environments [25].
III. DRONE AUTONOMY FOR DATA COLLECTION
In this section, we introduce the proposed autonomy
pipeline and the vehicle developed for through-the-canopy
data collection. The vehicle’s intelligence consists of three
key components: a low-level controller that converts thrust
and angular velocity commands into motor speeds; the
RAPPIDS planner [26], which uses depth images for obsta-
cle avoidance during flight; and a visual-inertial-odometry
(VIO)-based estimator using OpenVINS [27], which inte-
grates IMU and stereo camera inputs for accurate state
estimation. The system interfaces through the Robot Oper-
ating System (ROS), and a block diagram illustrating these
communications is shown in Figure 2.
The experimental vehicle comprises of the following com-
ponents: a RealSense D455 camera for depth and stereo
image collection, a Pixracer R15 flight controller, and a
Qualcomm RB5 computing board. Additionally, an IDS
camera for collecting RGB images is mounted on the side
of the vehicle. These hardware components, along with the
vehicle design, are depicted in Figure 6. Since both state
estimation and local planning rely solely on the outputs
from the depth camera unit, this design eliminates the need
for additional onboard sensors, ensuring cost and power
efficiency, and making the vehicle applicable to large-scale
monitoring missions. Furthermore, the reliance on vision-
based state estimation allows the vehicle to operate in diverse
environments, including indoor plant monitoring missions
where GPS signals are unavailable [28].
Visual-inertial odometry is performed using the Open-
VINS framework, which we employ for its accuracy and
compatibility, enabling seamless integration with our hard-
ware components. It is based on the Multi-State Constraint

Fig. 6.
Experimental vehicle with the proposed autonomy stack. A
RealSense D455 depth camera captures both depth and stereo images, while
an IDS camera is responsible for RGB image collection for fruit counting.
The autonomy algorithms are executed on a Qualcomm RB5 board, which
sends desired thrust and angular velocity commands to a Pixracer R15 flight
controller.
Kalman Filter (MSCKF) [29], which efficiently fuses visual
and inertial data to estimate the vehicle’s state. The MSCKF
method takes inputs from IMU measurements and visual fea-
tures extracted from stereo images, with the IMU providing
measurements at 400 Hz and the stereo images processed at
15 Hz. An example of the left stereo camera image with
feature tracking is shown in Figure 7a. As a result, the
vehicle’s 6-degrees-of-freedom pose, along with its velocities
and angular velocities, is estimated in real time.
In addition to accurate state estimation, obstacle avoidance
is crucial for ensuring the safety of the robot during through-
the-canopy flight. To achieve this, we implement the RAP-
PIDS local planner [26], which uses depth images collected
at 15 Hz from the RealSense camera to plan collision-
free trajecotries. This feature allows the vehicle to avoid
unexpected obstacles, such as tree branches, while in flight.
The RAPPIDS planner receives a goal point and conducts
local trajectory planning by collision-checking samples of
feasible trajectories. Using the simulation framework out-
lined in Section II, the planned global trajectory is first
provided to the planner, and the local planner continuously
modifies this path based on depth data during flight. The
planner samples minimum jerk trajectories, then checks each
sampled trajectory for input feasibility, speed limits, and
collisions. The detailed process for feasibility and velocity
checking is discussed in [30]. For collision checking, the
planner partitions the free space into rectangular pyramids
based on the depth image, and a trajectory remains collision-
free if it stays within the union of these pyramids. This
method efficiently reduces the computational cost while
maintaining reliable obstacle avoidance. More details about
this pyramid generation and collision checking process can
be found in [26]. The planning process is repeated with each
new depth image received to account for the latest obstacle
information, and the vehicle follows the previously planned
trajectory if no new feasible, collision-free path is found.
Finally, we demonstrate the feasibility of our proposed
Fig. 7.
Results from example data collection flight. (a) Samples of the
onboard depth image, left stereo image, and RGB image. (b) Visualization
of the experimental flight. The supplementary video showcases the same ex-
periment, where the vehicle follows the global reference trajectory (green),
and locally planned trajectories (blue) are shown at selected time steps. The
VIO-based estimator output is displayed in black, with reconstructed fruit
landmarks highlighted in red.
autonomy stack and vehicle design through an experimental
flight in an orchard. The flight is shown in the supple-
mentary video, and Figure 1 displays an action sequence
with selected states of the vehicle. In addition, Figure 7
includes samples of the onboard images and the visualization
of local planning results. Specifically, Figure 7a shows a
sample of the onboard depth image, a monochrome image
from the stereo camera for visual-inertial odometry, and a
collected RGB image with fruits detected in post processing.
Figure 7b presents the reference trajectory in green, the
planned trajectory at selected time steps in blue, and the
resulting flight path, based on the position output from the
estimator, in black. Additionally, using the collected onboard
data, we can reconstruct the locations of detected fruits, as
outlined in Section IV. This example highlights the potential
of our proposed data collection method for fruit counting
missions.
IV. AUTONOMOUS FRUIT COUNTING
While our proposed methods outlined in previous sec-
tions ensure effective data collection flights, accurate fruit
identification and counting from the onboard images remain
key to completing the autonomous fruit counting mission.
To this end, we adopt the approach proposed in [8], which
effectively mitigates double counting, where the same fruit
may appear in multiple frames. This method uses fruits as
features to reconstruct 3D landmarks, providing an accurate
fruit count while maintaining computational efficiency in the
reconstruction process. We further enhance this approach
by integrating the latest computer vision advancements for
detection and tracking. Specifically, we use YOLOv8 [6] for
fruit detection and ByteTrack [12] for tracking across image
sequences. The proposed workflow involves: i) detecting
fruits in each frame using fine-tuned YOLOv8, ii) tracking
detected fruits across the image sequence with ByteTrack,
iii) recovering 3D fruit locations via COLMAP [10], [11],
and iv) clustering the reconstructed fruit landmarks to obtain
the final count.

YOLOv8 is well suited for orchard fruit detection due to
its ability to detect multiple overlapping fruits in cluttered
natural environments while maintaining high accuracy even
for smaller, partially obscured objects. We fine-tune the
YOLOv8 model using a dataset of 100 manually labeled
images of the target fruit type, collected under good lighting
conditions. This process enables the model to adapt to the
unique visual characteristics of the fruit, ensuring robust
performance even under suboptimal conditions, such as
variations in fruit color caused by lighting changes. In the
video shown in Figure 8, the YOLOv8 model, without fine-
tuning, detects 72.7% of all fruit occurances with an average
confidence of 39.6%, while only 52.4% of the detected fruits
are correctly classified as oranges, with the rest classified
as apples. After fine-tuning with images captured in similar
conditions, the model detects 100% of the fruits with an
average confidence of 79.6% and correctly classifies them
as oranges.
While [8] uses the Hungarian Algorithm for fruit track-
ing, we adopt ByteTrack for its superior handling of low-
confidence detections, which are common under poor imag-
ing conditions. ByteTrack effectively maintains feature corre-
spondences between frames, providing robust raw inputs for
the structure-from-motion step. Figure 8a shows a sample of
the tracking output, with each tracked fruit assigned a unique
ID to distinguish it through the sequence.
COLMAP remains the state-of-the-art structure-from-
motion toolbox, and we use it to reconstruct the 3D land-
marks representing the fruits. Using the feature correspon-
dences from the tracking step, COLMAP recovers camera
intrinsics, extrinsics, and 3D landmarks, with fruits serving
as features. Since the RGB camera is integrated into the
autonomy stack, the reconstruction process may be initialized
using the camera extrinsics, improving the reliability and
accuracy of fruit landmark positioning. Finally, we apply
density-based spatial clustering [31] to group the recon-
structed landmarks by individual fruits, yielding the final fruit
count.
Figure 8 illustrates an example of autonomous fruit count-
ing using the proposed workflow. A video captured during a
low-altitude flight near a small orange tree with 12 fruits
is processed, and the method accurately recovers all 12
fruits along with their estimated positions. The fruits are
first detected and tracked in the image frames, as shown in
Figure 8a. During the structure from motion step, the camera
extrinsics and 33 landmarks are reconstructed, as depicted in
Figure 8b. Finally, after applying the clustering algorithm, the
landmarks are grouped into 12 distinct clusters, as shown
in different colors, revealing the total fruit count. This
example with orange counting demonstrates the effectiveness
of the proposed approach. However, in larger orchards with
smaller fruits, increased occlusions may impact detection
accuracy, as discussed in Section II. With further refinement,
the pipeline is expected to handle these more challenging
scenarios effectively.
Fig. 8.
Example results for the proposed autonomous counting workflow.
(a) Tracking output where an ID is assigned to each detected and tracked
fruit. (b) Counting results after the structure from motion step for a tree with
12 fruits. The 33 reconstructed 3D landmarks are grouped into 12 distinct
clusters, denoted by different colors. The reconstructed camera extrinsics
are marked in black at selected time steps.
V. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
In this work, we have developed an autonomous aerial
system designed for efficient and safe through-the-canopy
fruit counting in large-scale orchards. Our approach leverages
a high-fidelity simulation framework to optimize global flight
trajectories, a cost-effective autonomy stack for canopy-level
navigation and data collection, and state-of-the-art computer
vision tools for fruit counting. The system’s performance
was validated through successful fruit counting using aerial
images captured at canopy level, along with demonstrations
of the autonomous navigation capabilities of the experimental
vehicle. These results demonstrate the system’s potential to
enhance data collection efficiency and fruit yield estimation
in complex orchard environments, offering a promising so-
lution for large-scale agricultural applications.
For future work, several improvements can be made to
further enhance the system’s capabilities. First, global plan-
ning could be improved by considering the flight speed
of the vehicle, as it significantly impacts both power con-
sumption and orchard coverage. Second, incorporating real-
time feedback on the quality of the collected images could
further ensure the reliability of data collection. While the
integration of the RGB camera into the autonomy stack
provides the potential for this enhancement, it has not yet
been implemented in the current system. Finally, closer
integration of the autonomy stack and fruit counting pipeline
would enable real-time, onboard fruit counting, which is
achievable given the computational efficiency of our method.
Addressing these factors would help further optimize the
system for large-scale, continuous agricultural monitoring.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This work was supported by the Agriculture and Food
Research Initiative (AFRI) Competitive Grant no. 2020-
67021-32855/project accession no. 1024262 from the USDA
National Institute of Food and Agriculture. The authors
would like to thank Dylan Lee and Ting-Hao Wang for their
contributions to the development of the autonomous vehicle,
and Brian Bailey along with the members of the UC Davis
Plant Simulation Laboratory for their valuable advice on
plant modeling and fruit detection.

REFERENCES
[1] C. Zhang, J. Valente, L. Kooistra, L. Guo, and W. Wang, “Orchard
management with small unmanned aerial vehicles: A survey of sensing
and analysis approaches,” Precision Agriculture, vol. 22, no. 6, pp.
2007–2052, 2021.
[2] G. Farjon, L. Huijun, and Y. Edan, “Deep-learning-based counting
methods, datasets, and applications in agriculture: a review,” Precision
Agriculture, pp. 1–29, 2023.
[3] W. Maldonado Jr and J. C. Barbosa, “Automatic green fruit counting
in orange trees using digital images,” Computers and Electronics in
Agriculture, vol. 127, pp. 572–581, 2016.
[4] N. Aleixos, J. Blasco, F. Navarron, and E. Molt´o, “Multispectral
inspection of citrus in real-time using machine vision and digital signal
processors,” Computers and electronics in agriculture, vol. 33, no. 2,
pp. 121–137, 2002.
[5] Y. Zhang, W. Zhang, J. Yu, L. He, J. Chen, and Y. He, “Complete and
accurate holly fruits counting using yolox object detection,” Computers
and Electronics in Agriculture, vol. 198, p. 107062, 2022.
[6] J. Redmon, S. Divvala, R. Girshick, and A. Farhadi, “You only look
once: Unified, real-time object detection,” in Proceedings of the IEEE
conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, 2016, pp. 779–
788.
[7] A. I. B. Parico and T. Ahamed, “Real time pear fruit detection and
counting using yolov4 models and deep sort,” Sensors, vol. 21, no. 14,
p. 4803, 2021.
[8] X. Liu, S. W. Chen, C. Liu, S. S. Shivakumar, J. Das, C. J. Taylor,
J. Underwood, and V. Kumar, “Monocular camera based fruit counting
and mapping with semantic data association,” IEEE Robotics and
Automation Letters, vol. 4, no. 3, pp. 2296–2303, 2019.
[9] H. W. Kuhn, “The hungarian method for the assignment problem,”
Naval research logistics quarterly, vol. 2, no. 1-2, pp. 83–97, 1955.
[10] J. L. Sch¨onberger and J.-M. Frahm, “Structure-from-motion revisited,”
in Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR),
2016.
[11] J. L. Sch¨onberger, E. Zheng, M. Pollefeys, and J.-M. Frahm, “Pixel-
wise view selection for unstructured multi-view stereo,” in European
Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV), 2016.
[12] Y. Zhang, P. Sun, Y. Jiang, D. Yu, F. Weng, Z. Yuan, P. Luo, W. Liu,
and X. Wang, “Bytetrack: Multi-object tracking by associating every
detection box,” in European conference on computer vision. Springer,
2022, pp. 1–21.
[13] A. Mokrane, A. C. Braham, and B. Cherki, “Uav coverage path
planning for supporting autonomous fruit counting systems,” in 2019
International Conference on Applied Automation and Industrial Diag-
nostics (ICAAID), vol. 1.
IEEE, 2019, pp. 1–5.
[14] O. E. Apolo-Apolo, J. Mart´ınez-Guanter, G. Egea, P. Raja, and
M. P´erez-Ruiz, “Deep learning techniques for estimation of the yield
and size of citrus fruits using a uav,” European Journal of Agronomy,
vol. 115, p. 126030, 2020.
[15] A. Mokrane, A. Choukchou-Braham, and B. Cherki, “Coverage
path planning of autonomous marsupial systems for supporting fruit
counting process,” in 2020 International Conference on Electrical
Engineering (ICEE).
IEEE, 2020, pp. 1–6.
[16] Z. Zheng, J. Xiong, X. Wang, Z. Li, Q. Huang, H. Chen, and Y. Han,
“An efficient online citrus counting system for large-scale unstructured
orchards based on the unmanned aerial vehicle,” Journal of Field
Robotics, vol. 40, no. 3, pp. 552–573, 2023.
[17] N. Stefas, H. Bayram, and V. Isler, “Vision-based monitoring of
orchards with uavs,” Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, vol.
163, p. 104814, 2019.
[18] E. Galceran and M. Carreras, “A survey on coverage path planning
for robotics,” Robotics and Autonomous systems, vol. 61, no. 12, pp.
1258–1276, 2013.
[19] P. Roy and V. Isler, “Active view planning for counting apples in
orchards,” in 2017 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent
Robots and Systems (IROS).
IEEE, 2017, pp. 6027–6032.
[20] S. Marangoz, T. Zaenker, R. Menon, and M. Bennewitz, “Fruit
mapping with shape completion for autonomous crop monitoring,”
in 2022 IEEE 18th International Conference on Automation Science
and Engineering (CASE).
IEEE, 2022, pp. 471–476.
[21] Y.-T. Wang, B. N. Bailey, K. Fu, and K. Shackel, “Topological and
spatial analysis of within-tree fruiting characteristics for walnut trees,”
Scientia Horticulturae, vol. 318, p. 112127, 2023.
[22] T. M¨oller and B. Trumbore, “Fast, minimum storage ray/triangle
intersection,” in ACM SIGGRAPH 2005 Courses, 2005, pp. 7–es.
[23] B. N. Bailey, “Helios: A scalable 3d plant and environmental bio-
physical modeling framework,” Frontiers in Plant Science, vol. 10, p.
1185, 2019.
[24] J. Weber and J. Penn, “Creation and rendering of realistic trees,” in
Proceedings of the 22nd annual conference on Computer graphics and
interactive techniques, 1995, pp. 119–128.
[25] J. Zha, T. Yang, and M. W. Mueller, “Agri-fly: Simulator for uncrewed
aerial vehicle flight in agricultural environments,” 2024, submitted for
publication.
[26] N. Bucki, J. Lee, and M. W. Mueller, “Rectangular pyramid parti-
tioning using integrated depth sensors (rappids): A fast planner for
multicopter navigation,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, vol. 5,
no. 3, pp. 4626–4633, 2020.
[27] P. Geneva, K. Eckenhoff, W. Lee, Y. Yang, and G. Huang, “Openvins:
A research platform for visual-inertial estimation,” in 2020 IEEE
International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA). IEEE,
2020, pp. 4666–4672.
[28] M. F. Aslan, A. Durdu, K. Sabanci, E. Ropelewska, and S. S. G¨ultekin,
“A comprehensive survey of the recent studies with uav for precision
agriculture in open fields and greenhouses,” Applied Sciences, vol. 12,
no. 3, p. 1047, 2022.
[29] A. I. Mourikis and S. I. Roumeliotis, “A multi-state constraint kalman
filter for vision-aided inertial navigation,” in Proceedings 2007 IEEE
international conference on robotics and automation.
IEEE, 2007,
pp. 3565–3572.
[30] M. W. Mueller, M. Hehn, and R. D’Andrea, “A computationally
efficient motion primitive for quadrocopter trajectory generation,”
IEEE transactions on robotics, vol. 31, no. 6, pp. 1294–1310, 2015.
[31] M. Ester, H.-P. Kriegel, J. Sander, X. Xu et al., “A density-based
algorithm for discovering clusters in large spatial databases with
noise,” in kdd, vol. 96, no. 34, 1996, pp. 226–231.
