IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 12, NO. 23, 1 DECEMBER 2025
49071
Hierarchical 3-D Scene-Graph-Based
Semantic-Metric SLAM for Plant Inspection and
Fruit Counting in Intelligent Hydroponics System
Wenyu Yang
, Graduate Student Member, IEEE, Kang Liu
, Member, IEEE, Zheng Tan
,
Li-Yu Lo
, Associate Member, IEEE, Yinglun Wang, Ka-Hing Wong
, and Chih-Yung Wen
Abstract—The synergistic development of Internet of Things
(IoT), robotics, and artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) is reshaping
the technological paradigms of interdisciplinary laboratories
and industrial ecosystems. IoT-enabled vertical farming systems
demonstrate signiﬁcant advantages, achieving yield enhancement
while reducing carbon emissions compared to traditional agri-
culture, thereby providing innovative solutions for sustainable
food production. The advancement of robotic technologies further
expands the application dimensions of mobile intelligent sensors
in vertical farm IoT networks. Based on an autonomous farming
system that integrates uncrewed aerial vehicle (UAV), sensors,
and modular vertical farming units, this study proposes a 3-
D scene graph (3DSG)-based hierarchical mapping method for
the dynamic monitoring of plant and fruit growth. Through
feedback mechanisms, the system optimizes growth conditions
by adjusting lighting and nutrient delivery, while the hier-
archical mapping architecture reduces detection errors and
enables comprehensive 3-D visualization. The main contribu-
tions of this research include: 1) Pioneering application of
3DSG technology to establish a multidimensional spatiotemporal
representation model for plant growth processes, supporting
interpretable analysis and traceable monitoring; 2) Establishing
an uncertainty model through error propagation by system-
atically analyzing sensor models (covering various common
sensor combinations) and integrating these models into 3-D
object pose estimation algorithms. This highlights the neces-
sity of hierarchical abstraction levels. The system is validated
through simulations and real-world experiments, providing a
quantitative evaluation of object pose estimation; and 3) An
IoT-driven intelligent vertical farming architecture that inte-
grating mobile robotic perception networks and environmental
regulation devices, enabling dynamic acquisition and closed-
loop control of plant growth parameters. Open-source code
is available at https://github.com/allenthreee/scene_graph, video
link: https://youtu.be/dhc8RLmX7hc.
Received 18 June 2025; revised 6 August 2025; accepted 12 August
2025. Date of publication 19 August 2025; date of current version
20 November 2025. This work was supported in part by the Research Centre
for Unmanned Autonomous Systems, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University,
Hong Kong, SAR, China under Grant P0046487, and in part by the Research
Centre for Low Altitude Economy, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University
under Grant 4-CE3P. (Corresponding author: Kang Liu.)
Wenyu Yang, Kang Liu, Zheng Tan, Li-Yu Lo, and Chih-Yung Wen are
with the Department of Aeronautical and Aviation Engineering, The Hong
Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong, SAR, China (e-mail: wenyu.
yang@connect.polyu.edu.hk;
kang1.liu@polyu.edu.hk;
zheng-uav.tan@
connect.polyu.hk; patty.lo@connect.polyu.hk; chihyung.wen@polyu.edu.hk).
Yinglun Wang and Ka-Hing Wong are with the Research Institute for Future
Food, Department of Food Science and Nutrition, The Hong Kong Polytechnic
University, Hong Kong, SAR, China (e-mail: leo33.wang@polyu.edu.hk;
kahing.wong@polyu.edu.hk).
Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/JIOT.2025.3600531
Index Terms—Hierarchical scene graph, hydroponics platform,
Internet of Things (IoT), metric-semantic SLAM, sustainable
agriculture robots.
I. INTRODUCTION
U
NDER the dual pressures of current population growth
and climate change, food security has become an espe-
cially critical challenge for high-density areas like Hong Kong
and Singapore. Smart agriculture, empowered by a multimodal
technology cluster integrating large language model (LLM),
robotics, and the Internet of Things (IoT), is fundamentally
reshaping agricultural production systems. Through the 4-D
synergy of perception, analysis, decision-making, and execu-
tion, a closed-loop system is established, encompassing data
collection, intelligent decision-making, precise execution, and
feedback evaluation. This innovation not only overcomes the
resource efﬁciency bottlenecks inherent in traditional agricul-
ture but also establishes a scientiﬁc paradigm that supports
sustainable development. Driven by this new ecosystem of
scientiﬁc instrumentation, this transformation aligns agricul-
tural and food industries with the United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals [1], offering a technological pathway
to resolve food security dilemmas in land and resource-
constrained regions.
To address these imperatives, we have initiated research
on autonomous intelligent vertical farming. Vertical farming
addresses critical challenges in densely populated regions
(e.g., Hong Kong, Singapore), where arable land is scarce but
high-rise buildings and vacant industrial facilities are abun-
dant. Researchers have developed an integrated autonomous
intelligent vertical farm system combining uncrewed aerial
vehicles (UAVs) with vertical farming infrastructure [2]. These
systems autonomously regulate light environment parameters
and nutrient delivery strategies through perceptual feedback
data, thereby forming an optimized closed-loop for plant
growth. Our work aims to overcome the inherent limitations of
traditional agriculture in terms of resource efﬁciency and envi-
ronmental adaptability, while simultaneously constructing a
closed-loop scientiﬁc discovery framework for next-generation
smart agriculture.
In recent years, UAV technology has profoundly pene-
trated various sectors, including surveillance patrols, logistics
transportation [3], and
geospatial
mapping
[4]. At the
intersection of IoT and smart agriculture, UAVs are evolving
2327-4662 c⃝2025 IEEE. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining, and training of artiﬁcial intelligence
and similar technologies. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:46:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

49072
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 12, NO. 23, 1 DECEMBER 2025
Fig. 1.
System architecture of the proposed framework. Functional blocks are grouped into front-end (low-level perception) and back-end (high-level
perception) layers, organized by increasing computational complexity and abstraction level. Data ﬂows are indicated by: green for raw sensor data, red for
semantic information, and blue for system-level communication.
from conventional operational tools into intelligent agricul-
tural hubs. Current agricultural scenarios often suffer from
widespread infrastructure deﬁciencies [5], where insufﬁcient
Wi-Fi router and base station coverage hinders real-time data
transmission. As dynamic aerial nodes, UAVs can establish
a “device-edge-cloud” three-tier data transmission architec-
ture [6], effectively bridging the connectivity gap between
farmland and digital systems [7]. Drone swarms can execute
diversiﬁed tasks, such as seeding, plant protection, and 3-
D mapping, acquiring ﬁeld data through multimodal sensors.
After edge computing preprocessing, agricultural knowledge
graphs are constructed to provide structured data support
for artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) decision-making systems [8].
Their operational paradigm has transcended passive monitor-
ing and evolved into an active agricultural intervention system
that integrates precision pesticide application and intelligent
harvesting.
Intelligent environmental perception forms the technolog-
ical foundation for autonomous drone decision-making [9].
However, current mainstream perception solutions exhibit
signiﬁcant limitations: First, simultaneous localization and
mapping (SLAM) technology generates only semantically
deﬁcient point cloud maps (including visual-SLAM and light
detection and ranging (LiDAR)-SLAM), which are inadequate
for agricultural knowledge representation. Second, object
detection and image segmentation algorithms, predominantly
developed on idealized 2-D datasets, fail to construct ecologi-
cally correlated 3-D growth models. Third, a deeper issue lies
in existing technologies deconstructing plant organs (leaves,
branches, ﬂowers/fruits) into discrete spatial elements [10],
neglecting their dynamic coupling with biological attributes
and light conditions. Meanwhile, orchard environments exhibit
complex textures, microscale targets, and chaotic spatial dis-
tributions, causing mainstream 3-D object estimation methods
(e.g., bounding box regression from autonomous driving [11])
to maintain high error rates in fruit counting and pose
estimation tasks. These challenges highlight the necessity of
developing agricultural-speciﬁc perception frameworks.
To
address
these
challenges,
this
article
proposes
a
metric-semantic SLAM framework as shown in Fig. 1 for
3DSG-based plant inspection.1 By leveraging the hierarchical
structure of scene graphs, our approach signiﬁcantly enhances
fruit counting accuracy through error propagation control in
object pose estimation. The systematic analysis of multisensor
1Simulation environment adapted from ICUAS’2024 competition, June 4-7,
2024 in Chania, Greece. Where the authors’ team achieved second place.
error sources and hierarchical abstraction mechanisms repre-
sents a critical advancement in metric-semantic SLAM. The
principal contributions are summarized as follows.
1) A 3DSG is introduced to construct a multidimensional
spatiotemporal representation of plant development,
facilitating interpretable growth analysis and traceable,
time-series monitoring of agricultural processes.
2) A systematic analysis of object estimation uncertain-
ties is conducted based on different sensor models,
sensor combinations (including stereo camera, RGB-D
camera, and camera-LiDAR combinations), and error
propagation modeling, highlighting the critical role of
hierarchical abstraction layers in enabling precision
agriculture. The effectiveness of the proposed system
is validated through both simulated and real-world
experiments.
3) IoT-based smart vertical farming framework that com-
bines mobile robotic perception systems and automated
environmental control mechanisms to enable real-time
data collection and closed-loop feedback regulation of
crop growth metrics is proposed.
II. RELATED WORK
The research on smart and sustainable agriculture faces
a dual mission: it should address the limitations of tradi-
tional agricultural production models in terms of resource
efﬁciency and environmental adaptability, while simultane-
ously establishing a closed-loop scientiﬁc system to address
resource-population conﬂicts [12]. Its technical framework
comprises four core modules: 1) perception; 2) analysis;
3) decision-making; and 4) execution. The perception module,
implemented through IoT networks, enables data acquisition
and execution feedback, serving as the data foundation of the
closed-loop system that directly determines its performance
ceiling.
Despite rapid advancements in robotic perception technolo-
gies, a signiﬁcant cognitive gap persists between computer
algorithm paradigms and human cognition [13]: low-level
perception focuses on geometric localization (e.g., spatial XYZ
coordinates), while computer vision (CV)-based high-level
abstract perception, despite breakthroughs in object detection,
still suffers from fragmented multilevel representations in
algorithms like robotic SLAM. The inherent incompatibility
between heterogeneous information, such as geometric point
clouds and semantic objects leads to fragmented environmental
representations,
ultimately
constraining
downstream
task
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:46:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

YANG et al.: HIERARCHICAL 3-D SCENE-GRAPH-BASED SEMANTIC-METRIC SLAM
49073
effectiveness like precise manipulation. To address these chal-
lenges, this article systematically reviews research progress
through three dimensions: 1) sensor fusion (Section II-A)
for multimodal data synergy enabling 3-D object detection;
2)
metric-semantic
mapping
(Section
II-B)
bridging
geometric-semantic divides; and 3) hierarchical scene graphs
(Section II-C) constructing logically connected structured
environmental representations.
A. Sensor Fusion for Accurate 3-D Object Detection
To establish a comprehensive environmental perception
system, multiple core CV technologies, including object
detection and object tracking, have been widely integrated
into perception systems. Among these, 3-D object detection
technology plays a foundational role by intelligently predicting
the spatial coordinates, dimensional parameters, and cate-
gory attributes of critical objects (e.g., crops or machinery)
surrounding agricultural vehicles. This provides object-level
information support for downstream tasks, such as branch
pruning [14], fruit picking [15], and other labor-intensive
operations. Current mainstream methodologies in this ﬁeld can
be categorized into three sensor-driven technical approaches:
vision camera-based, LiDAR-based, and multisensor fusion
solutions [16].
While current research on 3-D object detection pre-
dominantly focuses on autonomous driving and domestic
service robots [11], exploration in agricultural scenarios
remains in its infancy. Compared to highly structured urban
environments [17], agricultural settings present three core
challenges [18]: 1) complex spatial topologies formed by inter-
twined foliage; 2) high-density information distribution; and 3)
dynamic lighting variations, which render generic perception
algorithms and datasets inadequate for precision agriculture
demands [19]. Existing agricultural semantic datasets exhibit
signiﬁcant limitations: early datasets [20] provided only 2-
D RGB images lacking depth information; recent efforts like
BUP20 [21] (which includes RGB-D data for greenhouse
sweet pepper instance segmentation [22]) still suffer from nar-
row scene coverage and insufﬁcient sample diversity. Although
the Cyrill team’s multimodal apple orchard dataset achieves
tree-level instance segmentation [23], it fails to overcome
the technical barrier of fruit-level ﬁne-grained detection. To
address these gaps, this study innovatively proposes a fruit-
level object detection algorithm based on multimodal data
fusion. By establishing a cross-scale feature correlation mech-
anism, the proposed method achieves the ﬁrst synergistic
optimization of spatial localization and semantic recognition
for fruits in agricultural environments, effectively bridging
the research void in ﬁne-grained perception models for this
domain.
B. Metric and Semantic SLAM
Through 3-D object detection algorithms, we can obtain
an object’s coordinates in the body frame (i.e., its position
relative to the robot). However, to derive the object’s world
coordinates, knowledge of the robot’s position relative to
the world frame is required, which necessitates SLAM tech-
nology. Metric SLAM has evolved over decades [9], driven
by advancements in both hardware and software [24] [25].
Hardware innovations have spanned sensors, such as inertial
measurement unit (IMU) [26], LiDAR [27], global posi-
tioning system (GPS), and multisensor fusion systems [28],
[29]. Software advancements are typically divided into front-
end [30] and back-end [31] components. The front-end
processes raw sensor data, progressing from traditional feature
detection techniques to deep learning-based feature extrac-
tion [32]. The back-end optimizes front-end outputs at lower
frequencies, evolving from Kalman ﬁlters [33] to factor
graph optimization [31]. Collectively, these developments have
enhanced positioning accuracy and enabled metric SLAM’s
broad adoption across domains.
Although metric SLAM has achieved signiﬁcant progress,
the world, for us, is not merely a collection of geometric
primitives (points [34], lines [35], surfaces [36]) or isolated
pixels/LiDAR point clouds. These map elements inherently
carry higher-level semantic information, motivating extensive
research on integrating semantics into SLAM systems. In
semantic perception, transformative progress has been made
over the past decade, beginning with the ImageNet dataset
and AlexNet [37]. Technologies, such as object detection
and semantic segmentation [38] have matured signiﬁcantly.
Recently, the rise of foundation models [39] has ushered in
a new era for AI, further expanding the horizons of semantic
understanding.
C. 3-D Scene Graph for Hierarchical SLAM
Semantic SLAM, as an intersection of SLAM and CV,
includes a wide range of studies that integrate higher-level
semantic information into purely metric SLAM maps [40].
We categorize this body of work as metric-semantic SLAM,
which includes various approaches [41]. However, most of
these works maintain ﬂat metric-semantic maps, where ele-
ments of different abstraction levels, such as basic landmark
points and objects, are indiscriminately stored in the same
map database [42]. Typically, attributes distinguish whether
a point is a landmark or other object (e.g., a bottle) [43].
This fragmented combination fails to reﬂect the relationships
between elements in the map and does not provide the robot
with a holistic view of its surroundings.
To achieve a more complete and holistic perception,
Armeni et al. [44] ﬁrst proposed the hierarchical 3DSG
to organize semantic-metric elements at different levels of
abstraction. A 3DSG is a layered graph where nodes represent
spatial concepts at multiple levels of abstraction (from low-
level geometry to objects, places, rooms, buildings, etc.)
and edges represent relations between these concepts. In
this direction, Kimera [10] and Hydra et al. [13] proposed
3DSG, which is a multiresolution hierarchical graph structure
to organize these semantic elements at different levels of
abstraction. However, these works primarily focus on an ideal
simulation setting that produces precise semantic segmentation
outcomes. As reported in Hydra [13], even the ground truth
(GT)-Trajectory conﬁguration does not achieve 100% accuracy
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:46:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

49074
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 12, NO. 23, 1 DECEMBER 2025
for “% Found” and “% Correct.” Achieving entirely ﬂawless
and all-encompassing semantic segmentation results in real-
world scenarios is impractical, highlighting the necessity for
further improvements in object mapping accuracy under noise
interference.
This article addresses the limitations of existing metric-
semantic SLAM systems, which primarily focus on calculating
the coordinates of objects without considering their orientation
or the hierarchical relationships between different levels of
abstraction. These simpliﬁcations may be acceptable in an
ideal simulation environment, but are not feasible in the
real world, which is characterized by noise and bias. To
address these issues, this article presents a metric-semantic
SLAM framework, as shown in Fig. 1, for fruit inspection
based on 3DSG. By leveraging the top-down structure of the
scene graph, our work signiﬁcantly improves the accuracy
of fruit counting by reducing the impact of various errors
on object pose estimation. The systematic analysis of error
sources and the hierarchical approach proposed in this article
represent important advancements in the ﬁeld of metric-
semantic SLAM.
III. ERROR PROPAGATION ANALYSIS IN FRUIT
DETECTION AND 3-D SEMANTIC MAPPING
This
section
systematically
investigates
error
sources
throughout the fruit perception pipeline, spanning from 2-D
detection to 3-D semantic mapping in Section III-A. Then,
we present error analysis of two prevalent depth sensing
conﬁgurations: 1) stereo vision systems in Section III-B and
2) LiDAR-camera fusion architectures in Section III-C, with
particular emphasis on systematic errors introduced during
depth estimation processes.
A. Projection Model and Noise Propagation
In this part, we detail the process of recovering 3-D
coordinates from 2-D image detections, propagating errors in
the camera coordinate system, and transforming these errors
into the world coordinate system. We use R ∈R3×3 to denote
3-D rotation matrix, t ∈R3 to denote 3-D translation vector
and T =
R
t
0
1

∈R4×4 to denote 3-D transformation
matrix.
The camera intrinsic matrix K is given by
K =
⎛
⎝
fx
0
cx
0
fy
cy
0
0
1
⎞
⎠.
(1)
1) Recover 3-D Object From Image Plane: Given a 2-D
detection (u, v) and depth d, the coordinates in the world frame
(xw, yw, zw) can be recovered using the camera intrinsic matrix
K, and the transformation matrix Twc
⎡
⎣
xw
yw
zw
⎤
⎦= Twc ∗K−1
⎡
⎣
(u + nu) · (d + nd)
(v + nv) · (d + nd)
d + nd
⎤
⎦+ npose
(2)
where nu, nv represent the 2-D detection noise, nd is the depth
noise, and npose is the camera pose error.
The errors in the recovered 3-D coordinates can be calcu-
lated using the following formulas:
σ 2
xcam =
 d
fx
2
σ 2
u +
 u
fx
2
σ 2
d ,
σ 2
zcam = σ 2
d
σ 2
ycam =
 d
fy
2
σ 2
v +
 v
fy
2
σ 2
d .
(3)
The covariance matrix of the object position in the world
coordinates can be calculated as
world = RcamRT + Twc
(4)
where cam is the covariance matrix of the object position in
the camera coordinates, and Twc is the covariance matrix of
the transformation Twc.
2) 2-D Detection Accuracy: Common detection or segmen-
tation algorithms require objects to occupy similar pixel areas
in the image; otherwise, errors are likely to occur. Taking
YOLO [45] as an example, the difﬁculties in detecting small
objects at a distance are as follows.
1) Resolution Limitation: YOLO divides the input image
into a grid, with each grid cell responsible for detecting
one object. If the object is too small, it may fall within
a single grid cell, making it difﬁcult for the detector to
accurately locate and classify it.
2) Feature Extraction: YOLO uses convolutional neural
network (CNN) to extract image features. The features of
small objects may be lost or become less prominent during
downsampling, leading to decreased detection accuracy.
Therefore, when objects are at a greater distance, larger objects
are detected with higher accuracy, while smaller objects are
more prone to errors.
According to the law of large numbers, the average of a
large number of independent random samples converges to
the true expected value (mean) if it exists. In the context of
depth estimation: Consider a bounding box containing pixels
from the same object with similar depth. Each pixel’s depth
estimate can be viewed as an independent random sample.
If we average the depth estimates from all these pixels, we
can think of it as an approximation of the true depth. As
the number of pixels (samples) increases, the average depth
estimate tends to converge to the actual depth (if other factors
are controlled). While for small objects, fewer pixels mean less
reliable statistical sampling. Individual measurement errors
have a larger impact on the overall depth estimate. The law
of large numbers still applies, but with fewer samples, the
convergence may be slower or less reliable.
As the number of pixels (samples) increases, the average
depth estimate tends to converge to the actual depth. For small
objects with fewer pixels, the individual measurement errors
have a larger impact on the overall depth estimate. Assume
a bounding box contains n pixels, where the depth estimate
for each pixel i is Zi, and the standard deviation of the depth
estimate is σZi. The average depth estimate over the n pixels
is: ¯Z = (1/n) n
i=1 Zi. According to the law of large numbers,
as n increases, ¯Z converges to the true depth Z. This is because
the standard deviation of the average depth estimate decreases
as (1/√n), we have
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:46:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

YANG et al.: HIERARCHICAL 3-D SCENE-GRAPH-BASED SEMANTIC-METRIC SLAM
49075
σ¯Z =
1
√n




1
n −1
n

i=1
σ 2
Zi.
(5)
For the case of small objects with fewer pixels, we have a
smaller n. Moreover, since Z is larger for distant objects, the
depth standard deviation σZ will be higher. With fewer pixels
(n smaller), the average depth estimate ¯Z will have a larger
variance σ¯Z, and thus the individual measurement errors have
a more signiﬁcant impact on the overall depth estimate.
B. Depth Estimation Accuracy for Stereo Camera
There are many factors that affect depth error, includ-
ing object distance, surface/medium characteristics, sensor
technology [46], and other parameters. When the sensor
combination is ﬁxed, and both the detected object and the
working environment are determined, the main inﬂuencing
factor is the distance between the camera and the target. Under
such situations, errors are more likely to occur when the object
is either too far from the camera or too small in size. For
distant targets or small objects with a small number of pixels,
the main reasons for inaccurate depth estimation include detail
loss, matching difﬁculty, and the impact of noise.
1) Detail Loss: Fewer pixels mean lower image resolution,
resulting in the loss of detailed information in the
image. This reduction makes it difﬁcult for algorithms
to capture the edges and textures of objects, thereby
affecting the accuracy of depth estimation.
2) Matching Difﬁculty: Depth estimation usually relies on
feature point matching in the image. Fewer pixels lead to
a reduced number of feature points, thereby increasing
the difﬁculty of matching and subsequently affecting the
accuracy of depth estimation.
3) Noise Impact: As pixel-per-meter decreases, meaning
each pixel corresponds to a larger actual spatial range,
the noise accumulated within that space also increases,
resulting in a lower signal-to-noise ratio. Low-resolution
images are more susceptible to noise, which can interfere
with the normal operation of depth estimation algo-
rithms, leading to inaccurate estimation results.
Taking the stereo camera as an example, based on the
disparity-depth model, Mallick et al. [46] calculated the depth
from disparity and determined the accuracy and resolution of
depth. Using similar triangles, the depth Z(ρ) of an object can
be described by
Z(ρ) =
m
fbρ +
 1
Zr
+ n
fb
−1
(6)
where m and n are the parameters of linear normalization, f
is camera focal length, b is the stereo baseline length, and
ρ is the normalized disparity [46]. To determine the standard
deviation σZ, the derivative of Z(ρ) is initially computed with
respect to ρ
dZ
dρ = d
dρ
m
fb

ρ +
 1
Zr
+ n
fb
−1
= −
m
fb
m
fb

ρ +
 1
Zr
+ n
fb
−2
.
(7)
Upon substituting Z(ρ) into (7), we obtain (dZ/dρ)
=
−(m/[fb])Z−2. The standard deviation σZ is related to the
standard deviation of the normalized disparity σρ can be
given by
σZ =

dZ
dρ
σρ =

−

m
fb

Z2

σρ =
m
fb
σρ
Z2 .
(8)
From the above expression, the error of depth measurement
is proportional to the square of the depth. This has been
experimentally veriﬁed in [46].
Assuming the errors in the estimation of X and Y coordi-
nates are independent, one has
σX =
 mx
f 2b

Z2σρ
and
σY =
 my
f 2b

Z2σρ
(9)
where x and y are the coordinates of the pixel in the depth
image, and σX and σY are the errors in X and Y, respectively.
Both the depth accuracy and resolution decrease quadratically
with increasing depth from the sensor.
C. Depth Estimation Accuracy for LiDAR Camera Fusion
The LiDAR measures a point in 3-D space using a bearing
direction ωi ∈S2 and depth di. The bearing direction in terms
of azimuth θ and elevation φ angles, the bearing direction ωi
is parameterized as
ωi =
cos θ cos φ
sin θ cos φ
sin φ
.
(10)
The measured point in the LiDAR frame is denoted as Pi =
diωi. The uncertainty in the LiDAR measurement arises from
the following two sources.
1) Bearing Direction Noise: δωi
∼
N(0, ωi) in the
tangent plane of ωi.
2) Depth Noise: δdi ∼N(0, di) in the depth measure-
ment.
The true point Pgt
i relates to the measured point as
Pgt
i =

di + δdi

ωi ⊕S2 δωi

≈diωi + ωiδdi −diω∧
i N(ωi)δωi
(11)
where N(ωi) is an orthonormal basis for the tangent plane,
and ω∧
i is the skew-symmetric matrix of ωi.
The total noise in Pi is calculated as
wi = ωiδdi −diω∧
i N(ωi)δωi ∼N

0, Pi

(12)
with covariance
Pi = ωidiωT
i + d2
i ω∧
i N(ωi)ωiN(ωi)Tω∧⊤
i
.
(13)
The LiDAR point Pi is transformed to the camera frame using
extrinsic calibration T = (R, t)
Pc
i = RPi + t.
(14)
The uncertainty in Pc
i is calculated by
Pc
i = RPiRT.
(15)
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:46:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

49076
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 12, NO. 23, 1 DECEMBER 2025
Then, the point Pc
i = (Xc
i , Yc
i , Zc
i ) in the camera frame is
projected onto the image plane via the following formula:
pi =

fx
Xc
i
Zc
i
+ cx, fy
Yc
i
Zc
i
+ cy

(16)
where fx, and fy are focal lengths and (cx, cy) is the principal
point.
The Jacobian of Zc
i with respect to Pi is computed by
∂Zc
i
∂Pi
= R3
(17)
where R3 is the third row of R. The variance of Zc
i is
σ 2
Zc
i = R3PiRT
3 .
(18)
Assuming isotropic bearing noise (ωi = σ 2
ωI2×2)
Pi = σ 2
diωiωT
i + d2
i σ 2
ω

I3×3 −ωiωT
i

.
(19)
The depth uncertainty becomes
σ 2
Zc
i = σ 2
di(R3ωi)2 + d2
i σ 2
ω

∥R3∥2 −(R3ωi)2
.
(20)
Note
the
term
σ 2
di(R3ωi)2
is generally
negligible
in
magnitude, while the dominant contribution comes from
d2
i σ 2
ω(∥R3∥2 −(R3ωi)2). This predominant term exhibits
quadratic growth trend with respect to the distance di, which
makes the second term in (20) becoming increasingly signiﬁ-
cant as di increases. This observation is well aligned with the
depth uncertainty analysis results in Section III-B, and we will
introduce hierarchical scene graph to alleviate the uncertainty
introduced by small or distant objects in Section IV.
IV. SCENE GRAPH
Hierarchical abstraction intrinsically mitigates uncertainty
through two key mechanisms.
1) Error Propagation Mitigation: Noisy detections (e.g.,
small fruits) are conﬁned to lower abstraction levels,
preventing error propagation to the plant/orchard.
2) Redundancy Exploitation: Higher-level objects (e.g.,
plants) aggregate observations from multiple child
nodes, suppressing outliers through statistical averaging.
In this section, we ﬁrst analyze absolute/relative errors
and abstraction-level implications to justify our hierarchical
semantic mapping approach in Section IV-A, then we formal-
ize our 3DSG framework in Section IV-B.
A. Absolute and Relative Errors in Hierarchical Structures
In semantic SLAM, objects are typically simpliﬁed to only
retain their category, size, and pose information. Thus, each
object carries information in the form of [class, size, T ∈
R4×4], which is the information we need to extract in metric-
SLAM. However, the number of pixels generated by each
object in the image is different, as shown in Fig. 2, meaning
that the amount of information in the image (the source of
information) will also be different. We are mainly concerned
with the uncertainty of object position and size.
According to (3), the accuracy of the position is signiﬁcantly
affected by the uv and depth errors. The uncertainty of uv and
Fig. 2.
Projection model and uncertainty propagation.
depth accuracy is inﬂuenced by the size of the object in the
image, which is affected by the size and distance of the object.
This relationship can be expressed by the following formula:
obj_image_size = obj_size · f
distance
(21)
where f is the camera focal length, which can be obtained
from the camera intrinsic matrix K. Regarding uv and depth
errors, they are affected by the size of the object in the image.
In particular, it is necessary to ensure that the object image
size reaches a suitable size. In the following, we analyze the
relationship between 2-D detection errors, depth errors, and
object image size.
The localization error of an object can be divided into
absolute error and relative error. The absolute error xyz_error
is measured in a uniﬁed length unit (m). The relative error
is given by (xyzerror/sizeobj). A natural assumption in object
association is that two objects of the same class cannot overlap
in 3-D space, so the distance threshold between objects is
usually set to the size of the object itself, and the size values
are determined through statistical evaluation of object distri-
butions. Large objects have larger distance thresholds, while
small objects have smaller distance thresholds. Therefore, it
is more reasonable and accurate to ﬁrst associate the larger
objects and then the smaller objects within them.
From another perspective, in the real world, larger objects
logically contain (or correspond to) multiple smaller objects
(for example, a tree has multiple fruits, and a building has
multiple rooms). Smaller objects are less likely to corre-
spond to multiple larger objects (for example, a fruit is not
on multiple trees, or a room does not belong to multiple
buildings). Therefore, a hierarchical scene graph is a natural
organizational structure, allowing the metric-semantic SLAM
framework to organize semantic elements at different levels of
abstraction. This approach also reduces the memory required
for large-scale mapping. More importantly, larger objects are
associated with more depth pixels, making the depth values
less susceptible to outliers and more robust.
B. Hierarchical Scene Graph for Fruit Inspection
We use a 3DSG to organize objects at different levels of
abstraction. A 3DSG is a layered graph with nodes represent-
ing spatial concepts at multiple levels of abstraction (from
low-level geometric point clouds to objects, places, and rooms
for indoor service robots).
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:46:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

YANG et al.: HIERARCHICAL 3-D SCENE-GRAPH-BASED SEMANTIC-METRIC SLAM
49077
1) Scene Graph Deﬁnition for Plant Inspection: In our
case, to achieve the goal of managing the orchard, the
abstraction levels rise from purely geometric points without
semantic information to fruits and so on, with the highest level
being the orchard. The stems and leaves of the plants should
be included in the hierarchy. To simplify the problem, this
study only considers point clouds, fruits, plants, and orchards.
The relationships between nodes include subordination and
adjacency. The formal deﬁnition of our 3DSG is shown as
follows.
Deﬁnition 1 (Hierarchical Graph): A graph G = (V, E) is
said to be hierarchical if the set of nodes V can be partitioned
into l layers, i.e., V = l
i=1 Vi, such that:
1) Single Parent: Each node v ∈Vi at layer i shares an
edge with at most one node in the layer Vi+1;
2) Inherent Position Attributes: Each node v ∈Vi at layer
i pertains the position attributes from its parent node in
the layer Vi+1;
3) Locality: Each node v ∈Vi can only share edges with
nodes in the same or adjacent layers, i.e., Vi−1, Vi, or
Vi+1;
4) Disjoint Children: For any u, v ∈Vi, the children of
u and v, namely C(u) and C(v), are disjoint (i.e., they
share no nodes or edges), where
C(u) = {w ∈Vi−1 | (w, u) ∈E}
(22)
denotes the children of u, i.e., the set of nodes in layer
Vi−1 sharing an edge with u. We refer to G as an
L-layered hierarchical graph and denote with Vl the set
of nodes in layer l. Moreover, we conventionally order
the layers from the bottom to the top, i.e., the lowest
layer is V1, while the top layer is VL.
For example, in the case of fruits, the highest layer of the
hierarchical scene graph is the orchard, the next layer is the
plants, the third layer is the fruits, and the lowest layer is
purely geometric landmarks without semantic meaning. Each
fruit belongs to a plant, and each plant belongs to an orchard.
2) Pose Estimation and Pose Update With Parent: This
study develops an updated strategy that allows child nodes
and parent nodes to update their poses together. First, the 2-D
detection algorithm detects objects at lower abstraction levels
only within the bounding box of objects at higher abstraction
levels. For example, fruits are detected only within the bound-
ing box of a plant, and the fruit node is directly added under
the plant node by Algorithm 1: add_node(fruit). In this logic,
larger objects are associated with more depth pixels, making
the corresponding depth estimation less susceptible to outliers
and more robust. These objects have higher abstraction levels
in the scene graph. The algorithm queries objects at higher
abstraction levels ﬁrst, then queries objects at lower abstraction
levels sequentially. When the position of an object is updated,
the positions of its child nodes are also updated, which helps
reduce matching errors during loop closure.
Algorithm 1 sets different distance thresholds based on the
abstraction level and actual size of the object. This algorithm
checks the list of child nodes: if the current node has no child
nodes, the new child node is directly added. If the current
node has child nodes, the algorithm iterates through each
Algorithm 1 Add Child to Scene Graph
1: if self.children is empty then
2:
add_child()
3: else
4:
for each old_child in self.children do
5:
node_dist = calc_node_dist(old_child, child)
6:
if node_dist < dist_threshold then
7:
merge_existing_child_with_child()
8:
return existing_child
9:
else
10:
pass
11:
end if
12:
end for
13:
add_child()
14: end if
15: update_node_attributes()
16: return child
child node and calculates the distance (node_dist) between
the new child node and the existing child nodes. If the
calculated distance is less than the threshold, the new child
node is merged with the corresponding existing child node
using the inﬁnite impulse response (IIR) ﬁlter. Subsequently,
the system updates the pose of all children of this merged
node. If no mergeable child node is found, the new child
node is appended to the list of child nodes. By querying and
updating layer by layer, the algorithm effectively manages and
maintains the relationships between objects in the scene graph.
The framework is inherently extensible. Adding abstraction
levels would require: 1) modifying the 3-DSG class hierarchy
to include new semantic levels and 2) retraining detection
models with annotated plant-bed data to enable recursive graph
construction.
V. EXPERIMENT
As analyzed in Section III, we conducted experiments
using two different sensor conﬁgurations: 1) RGB-D and
2) camera-LiDAR fusion. Four different datasets collected
in different experimental scenarios were tested. The detailed
conﬁgurations and parameters for each scenario are presented
in Table I. The quantitative evaluation in this section com-
pares algorithmic fruit counts against GT across multiple
fruit varieties. To provide an intuitive measure of counting
accuracy, we include bracketed percentages indicating each
algorithm’s closeness to GT, where 100% represents perfect
alignment with GT. Deviations above or below this value
reﬂect performance degradation, with greater differences indi-
cating lower accuracy.
For RGB-D datasets, the state-of-art metri-semantic SLAM,
OA-SLAM [41], Quadric-SLAM [40], VOOM [47], and 3DSG
SLAM, Kimera [10], and Hydra [13] are selected as the
main baseline. OA-SLAM, Quadric-SLAM and VOOM use
dual quadric as landmarks in SLAM with constraints of
detected bounding boxes or instance segmentations, while
all three above methods apply ﬂat metric-semantic maps for
point cloud landmarks and objects (represented by quadrics)
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:46:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

49078
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 12, NO. 23, 1 DECEMBER 2025
TABLE I
EXPERIMENT DATASETS CONFIGURATION
storage, i.e., they are not concerned with estimating higher-
level semantics and store all mapping elements at the same
level of abstraction. Kimera and Hydra applied 3DSG to
organize semantic elements at different levels of abstraction.
Their studies, however, mainly considered an ideal simulation
environment with accurate semantic segmentation results. It
is unrealistic to obtain completely correct and comprehensive
semantic segmentation in the real world. Therefore, it remains
crucial to improve object mapping accuracy under the inﬂu-
ence of noise.
For LiDAR-camera fusion datasets, Kang et al. [48] and
Liu et al. [49] methods are selected as the main benchmarks.
Among them, Kang’s method is only camera-LiDAR fusion
without odometry information, so it can only estimate the
fruit position statically in the local frame (the vehicle cannot
move, only the manipulator can move to grasp fruits), and
cannot calculate the fruit position in the global frame. Liu’s
method extends Kang’s method, but with worse positioning
accuracy. Both methods project the LiDAR point cloud onto
the image plane to obtain the depth of pixels in the image,
and then estimate the 3-D position of the fruit based on
the depth. In contrast, our sensor fusion method adopts the
3-D object detection paradigm commonly used in autonomous
driving. We project the object detection bounding box from
the image into 3-D space, and subsequently ﬁlter the point
clusters in the 3-D space to avoid the inﬂuence of noisy
point clouds. To address potential calibration challenges from
variable extrinsic settings, we employ a map-based fusion
strategy where we ﬁrst prebuild a reference point cloud map
using LiDAR odometry, then perform camera-LiDAR fusion
exclusively on this prebuilt map. This approach enables higher
positioning accuracy and more robust performance.
A. Gazebo Simulation for Fruit Counting
In the Gazebo environment as depicted in Fig. 1, various
fruits are placed on the vertical plant bed in the garden. Each
bed contains one of the three species of plants. Each type of
plant has different colors and sizes, namely purple eggplants,
red tomatoes, and yellow peppers. A UAV ﬂies in the green-
house to conduct fruit counting, a depth camera, an IMU are
installed on the simulated UAV. The GT odometry information
is used to provide the pose information of the UAV.
We conducted a comparative analysis of fruit counting accu-
racy with Kimera and Hydra frameworks, given their shared
experimental conﬁguration utilizing RGB-D camera inputs and
ground-truth semantic segmentation annotations. Within an
idealized simulation framework, precise semantic segmenta-
tion labels can be systematically generated through HSV-based
thresholding techniques, effectively bypassing sensor noise
TABLE II
FRUIT COUNTING ACCURACY IN GAZEBO SIMULATION SETUP
PROVIDED BY ICUAS’24 SIMULATION PHASE
Fig. 3.
Plant and fruit reconstruction position error comparison in
centimeters.
artifacts. As shown in Table II, our Gazebo simulation results
demonstrate exceptional counting precision: the proposed
methodology achieves exact 100% alignment with GT in most
test cases, with a single instance at 102% - still well within
near-perfect range. This signiﬁcant performance improvement
over comparative methods validates our approach’s effective-
ness in fruit counting applications.
It is notable that even with the GT-Trajectory conﬁguration,
achieving 100% accuracy for %Found and %Correct in the
simulation scenes using ground-truth semantics is not realized.
There are centimeter-level fruit and plant localization errors
in all three methods as shown in Fig. 3. Two primary factors
contribute to the imperfect performance of the GT-Trajectory
setup. First, Hydra’s object extraction method tends to under-
segment nearby objects of the same class, resulting in the
predicted object centroid deviating further from the individual
GT object instances. Second, the underlying metric-semantic
reconstruction within the active window (such as Kimera and
Voxblox) can occasionally cause object labels to be projected
onto surfaces behind objects, leading to the generation of
hallucinated objects. To address these issues, the algorithm
design has been reﬁned to be more robust to noise and
uncertainty, following the analysis outlined in Section III.
B. TUM RGB-D Dataset
Since benchmark methods are designed for service robotic
applications rather than being speciﬁcally targeted toward fruit
mapping and counting, we validate the generalizability of
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:46:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

YANG et al.: HIERARCHICAL 3-D SCENE-GRAPH-BASED SEMANTIC-METRIC SLAM
49079
TABLE III
OBJECT COUNTING ACCURACY IN TUM RGB-D
DATASET AND DIAMOND DATASET
our proposed approach beyond agricultural scenarios through
testing on the TUM RGB-D dataset, which primarily contains
indoor environments. As discussed in OA-SLAM [41], the
mere incorporation of bounding boxes or quadric surface mod-
els as map landmarks may not substantially enhance SLAM’s
localization accuracy. Consequently, rather than prioritizing
localization precision comparisons, our evaluation framework
emphasizes assessing and comparing the quantitative recon-
struction completeness of objects through semantic-aware
metrics in SLAM implementations.
This evaluation by counting object numbers reﬂects the
accuracy of object-level mapping. The closer the number of
reconstructions is to the GT, the better the performance of data
association. Since the TUM RGB-D dataset does not provide
GT 3-D reconstruction or the GT counts and labels of objects,
we obtain the GT object counts by manual labeling and visual
inspection.
Table III summarizes the results. We compare our algorithm
with three object data association methods: 1) OA-SLAM;
2) QISO-SLAM; and 3) VOOM. Among them, OA-SLAM
and QISO-SLAM, IoU serves as the primary metric for object
association. OA-SLAM restricts associations to objects of the
same category, whereas QISO-SLAM associates objects based
solely on IoU values, without considering their categories, and
VOOM applies Wasserstein distance [47] for object association.
Comparatively, our method outperforms other algorithms
on all sequences by scrutinizing the object’s class, size, and
3-D position in the scene graph, allowing for the updating
of object poses. Therefore, our method performs well even
when dealing with sequences like Fr2_person, where moving
persons are present, while VOOM tends to yield a higher
number of incorrect counts. The sparse 3DSG reconstruction
result of the TUM RGB-D dataset is shown in Fig. 4.
The results for OA-SLAM and QISO-SLAM are consistent
with those reported in [47], as the source code for QISO-
SLAM remains unavailable. Other results represent the best
performance achieved. It can be observed that OA-SLAM
exhibits the highest number of redundant objects among all
the methods. This outcome is attributed to its utilization of
2-D IoU alone for object association, which leads to erro-
neous object detection, misclassiﬁcation, and consequently,
erroneous generation of 3-D objects. And VOOM outperforms
QISO-SLAM by incorporating additional criteria for object
data association.
C. ICUAS’24 Competition Dataset
The ICUAS’24 competition is organized by LARICS from
the University of Zagreb. Inspired by the scenario of robots
Fig. 4.
TUM RGB-D dataset test results. (a) 2-D object detection in
fr2_ofﬁce. (b) 2-D object detection in fr3_ofﬁce. (c) 3DSG in fr2_ofﬁce.
(d) 3DSG in fr3_ofﬁce.
Fig. 5.
ICUAS’24 dataset collection scenario. (a) Dataset collection orchard
environment. (b) UAV conﬁguration.
in agriculture, the ﬁnal stage of the competition takes place
in an orchard shown in Fig. 5(a). There are two different
types of plants in the orchard, with differently colored fruits
(yellow and red). A UAV is deployed and ﬂown manually,
both in position and attitude modes, to collect data (including
LiDAR point cloud, camera image, GPS signal, and IMU data)
for fruit counting. The UAV is equipped with a front-facing
camera, slightly pitched-down 3-D lidar, GPS receiver, IMU,
and Pixhawk controller as shown in Fig. 5(b).
Kang’s method and Liu’s method primarily focus on
fruit localization. However, the ICUAS’24 competition did
not provide GT 3-D fruit locations (in fact, obtaining GT
object localization in outdoor, unstructured, and cluttered
environments like orchards is very challenging). Therefore, we
only compared our method with Liu’s method for fruit counting
accuracy. Kang’s method uses a Livox LiDAR (a solid-state
LiDAR with a nonrepetitive scan pattern) to accumulate point
clouds from one static pose and project them onto the image
plane to estimate pixel depth. This method is only suitable for
static platforms or robots that need to stay in the same position
for a long time, which signiﬁcantly reduces the robot’s efﬁciency
(both in detection and fruit harvesting). Consequently, it is
not suitable for mobile robots, especially UAVs. Liu’s method
builds on Kang’s method by adopting a sliding window to
accumulate point clouds from the LiDAR and then projecting
the LiDAR point clouds onto the image plane.
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:46:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

49080
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 12, NO. 23, 1 DECEMBER 2025
Fig. 6.
Tree Segmentation in the Orchard.
Fig. 7.
ICUAS’24 orchard mapping results with fruit landmarks and point
cloud mapping.
TABLE IV
OBJECT COUNTING ACCURACY IN ICUAS’24 DATASET
However, due to parallax and occlusion, in an actual
orchard, the background depth may be projected onto the
same pixels as the foreground depth, which introduces sig-
niﬁcant errors. Our method directly selects candidate point
cloud clusters in 3-D space and then probabilistically selects
the fruit depth. By using IIR ﬁlters and hierarchical scene
graphs to select and update the fruit candidate poses, our
approach effectively avoids a large number of erroneous
estimates. The tree segmentation in the point cloud map is
carried out by using the DB-Scan algorithm, as shown in
Fig. 6.
Since Liu’s algorithm is not open-source, we reimplemented
their methods based on the descriptions provided in their
article and tested them on the ICUAS’24 dataset. In this
dataset, the UAV ﬂies over two rows of orchards, and the fruit
mapping results can be seen in Fig. 7. In our method, all fruits
are well aligned with the trees, while in Liu’s method, due to
background depth noise, many fruits erroneously fall into the
empty area between the two rows of orchards. Quantitative
results are shown in Table IV, where it can be seen that our
method achieves higher accuracy compared to Liu’s method.
However, some errors persist, primarily due to the cluttered
environment and the inherent challenges associated with fruit
counting in complex agricultural scenes.
D. Hydroponic Laboratory Test for Strawberry Mapping
We also conducted indoor strawberry hydroponic cultivation
at the Hong Kong Polytechnic University and performed
UAV ﬂight tests in the vertical hydroponics farm lab to
collect data and test our fruit counting system. As shown
in Fig. 8, our hydroponic laboratory is an indoor controlled
environment, capable of adjusting growth conditions through
various equipment (including temperature, humidity, nutrient
supply, CO2 concentration, and lighting), thereby providing
a tailored and stable growth environment for crops. On one
hand, indoor cultivation is not limited by climate, allowing
crops that are typically grown in winter to be cultivated
in summer, thus ensuring continuous and stable year-round
production. On the other hand, due to the scarcity of arable
land in Hong Kong, indoor controlled hydroponics offers
more ﬂexible site selection compared to traditional outdoor
greenhouse hydroponics, since they can be set up in factory
premises, containers, and other locations, thereby minimizing
environmental impact.
Our indoor controlled hydroponic platform (maintained at
a temperature of 22±1◦C and relative humidity of 50%–60%)
currently has 32 intelligent hydroponic units that can control
light intensity, spectrum, and water circulation for research
purposes. The hydroponic platform already has many sensors
to monitor the plant growth environment, but most of them
are for monitoring temperature, humidity, and nutrient com-
position, lacking sensors for monitoring plant growth status.
This limitation is partly due to the structural complexity of the
hydroponic platform, which makes the installation of cameras
and other sensors challenging, and partly because densely
installing cameras on a large-scale hydroponic platform would
signiﬁcantly increase costs. By equipping a UAV with an
RGB-D camera and a Livox MID-360 LiDAR, a mobile
data collection platform for crop monitoring is established,
substantially reducing sensor installation costs. The sensor
setup of the UAV could be found at [16]. In the future,
manipulators can be installed on UAVs for active operations,
such as pollination, pruning, and harvesting.
First, we collected over 1200 images for strawberry anno-
tation and classiﬁcation, only annotating strawberries with
fully fallen petals. Based on color (green and red), the
strawberries were classiﬁed into two categories: 1) ripe and
2) unripe. Unripe strawberries are difﬁcult to be accurately
identiﬁed, and the training process may incorrectly identify
ripe strawberries as unripe. In contrast, fully ripe strawberries
are relatively easier to be identiﬁed correctly. Additionally,
manual selections may result in different classiﬁcations due to
varying levels of experience, posing further challenges for data
labeling. In this study, strawberries exhibiting more than 60%
red surface area were classiﬁed as ripe, while those with less
than 60% red area were classiﬁed as unripe. The annotated
dataset was subsequently used to train a YOLOv8 network
for real-time strawberry detection. The detection results are
shown in Fig. 9. The detected bounding boxes are ﬁltered and
then input into the hierarchical scene graph for 3-D semantic
mapping.
The ﬁnal mapping of strawberries in the indoor hydroponic
platform is presented in Fig. 10. It can be seen in the
ﬁgure that most ripe strawberries were detected and correctly
mapped in 3-D space. Since unripe strawberry detection is
more challenging, only ripe strawberries are counted for ﬁnal
comparison. The strawberry counting results are shown in
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:46:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

YANG et al.: HIERARCHICAL 3-D SCENE-GRAPH-BASED SEMANTIC-METRIC SLAM
49081
Fig. 8.
System architecture of the intelligent hydroponic laboratory with embedded sensors and UAV.
Fig. 9.
Ripe and unripe strawberry detection by YOLOv8. (a) Scene 1. (b)
Scene 2.
Fig. 10.
3-D strawberry mapping in the hydroponic platform.
TABLE V
STRAWBERRY COUNTING ACCURACY IN HYDROPONIC PLATFORM
Table V. Accurately detecting unripe strawberries will be our
future work direction. For quantitative assessment, ground-
truth positions of strawberries were manually measured, with
the hydroponic shelf designated as the coordinate origin. In
dynamic scenarios, our method achieves 2 cm localization
error, which is better than Liu’s method as shown in Fig. 11.
Based on the above analysis,is, the proposed algorithm helps
to achieve superior accuracy, clearly demonstrating the effec-
tiveness of our approach.
Fig. 11.
Hydroponic platform strawberry 3-D mapping accuracy comparison.
(a) Static mapping accuracy. (b) Dynamic mapping accuracy.
VI. CONCLUSION
This article, grounded in fruit counting, introduces a hier-
archical metric-semantic SLAM system based on 3DSG for
object mapping and counting. By leveraging a hierarchical
scene-graph structure, the system mitigates mapping errors
and signiﬁcantly enhances fruit counting accuracy. Our work
focuses on two key aspects: 1) reducing errors in each stage
(2-D detection, depth estimation, robot odometry) and 2) lever-
aging a hierarchical structure in the real world to minimize
object mapping errors through a top-down data association
paradigm. Experimental results across four different scenarios
demonstrate both the mapping accuracy of 3-D objects and the
generality of the proposed algorithm. Experimental evaluations
reveal context-dependent performance:
1) In Outdoor Orchards (Section V-C): Our method
reduced fruit localization errors by 40% compared to
Liu’s [49] method through 3-D clustering, but remained
sensitive to extreme foliage density.
2) In Indoor Vertical Farms (Section V-D): Our method
achieved 92% strawberry counting accuracy (dynamic
ﬂights) by leveraging hierarchical constraints to over-
come occlusion.
Fundamental
limitations
include:
1)
degraded
RGB-D
performance under challenging
scenarios (addressed via
LiDAR fusion) and 2) heavy computational load on embedded
hardware. In the future, we will optimize real-time inference
via lightweight graph pruning.
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:46:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

49082
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 12, NO. 23, 1 DECEMBER 2025
REFERENCES
[1] (UN Secretary-Gener., New York, NY, USA). Progress Towards the
Sustainable Development Goals: Report of the Secretary-General. 2024.
[Online]. Available: https://un.org/sdgs/reports
[2] H. Ibraiwish, M. W. Eltokhey, and M.-S. Alouini, “UAV-assisted VLC
using LED-based grow lights in precision agriculture systems,” IEEE
Internet Things Mag., vol. 7, no. 3, pp. 100–105, May 2024.
[3] W. Shang, J. Fu, J. Ma, J. Lin, J. Tian, and M. Yu, “Internet-of-Things-
based low-carbon distribution route optimization for logistics,” IEEE
Internet Things J., vol. 12, no. 4, pp. 3577–3588, Feb. 2025.
[4] C. Friess, V. Niculescu, T. Polonelli, M. Magno, and L. Benini, “Fully
onboard slam for distributed mapping with a swarm of nano-drones,”
IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 11, no. 20, pp. 32363–32380, Oct. 2024.
[5] M. Raj et al., “A survey on the role of Internet of Things for adopting and
promoting agriculture 4.0,” J. Netw. Comput. Appl., vol. 187, Aug. 2021,
Art. no. 103107.
[6] K. Yu, Z. Feng, J. Yu, T. Chen, J. Peng, and D. Li, “Secure ultra-
reliable and low latency communication in UAV-enabled noma wireless
networks,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 73, no. 10, pp. 14908–14922,
Oct. 2024.
[7] F. Pan, Z. Pang, M. Luvisotto, M. Xiao, and H. Wen, “Physical-
layer security for industrial wireless control systems: Basics and future
directions,” IEEE Ind. Electron. Mag., vol. 12, no. 4, pp. 18–27,
Dec. 2018.
[8] R. Lu et al., “A novel sequence-to-sequence-based deep learning model
for multistep load forecasting,” IEEE Trans. Neural Netw. Learn. Syst.,
vol. 36, no. 1, pp. 638–652, Jan. 2025.
[9] C. Cadena et al., “Past, present, and future of simultaneous localization
and mapping: Toward the robust-perception age,” IEEE Trans. Robot.,
vol. 32, no. 6, pp. 1309–1332, Dec. 2016.
[10] A. Rosinol et al., “Kimera: From SLAM to spatial perception with
3D dynamic scene graphs,” Int. J. Robot. Res., vol. 40, nos. 12–14,
pp. 1510–1546, 2021.
[11] K. Wang, T. Zhou, X. Li, and F. Ren, “Performance and challenges of 3D
object detection methods in complex scenes for autonomous driving,”
IEEE Trans. Intell. Veh., vol. 8, no. 2, pp. 1699–1716, Feb. 2023.
[12] G.-Z. Yang et al., “The grand challenges of science robotics,” Sci. Robot.,
vol. 3, no. 14, 2018, Art. no. eaar7650.
[13] N. Hughes et al., “Foundations of spatial perception for robotics:
Hierarchical representations and real-time systems,” Int. J. Robot. Res.,
vol. 43, no. 10, 2024, Art. no. 2783649241229725.
[14] J. Wang, B. Li, and M. Q.-H. Meng, “Kinematic constrained bi-
directional RRT with efﬁcient branch pruning for robot path planning,”
Expert Syst. Appl., vol. 170, May 2021, Art. no. 114541.
[15] T. Li, Q. Feng, Q. Qiu, F. Xie, and C. Zhao, “Occluded apple fruit
detection and localization with a frustum-based point-cloud-processing
approach for robotic harvesting,” Remote Sens., vol. 14, no. 3, p. 482,
2022.
[16] W. Yang et al., “Autonomous–targetless extrinsic calibration of thermal,
RGB, and LiDAR sensors,” IEEE Trans. Instrum. Meas., vol. 73,
pp. 1–11, Oct. 2024.
[17] A. Geiger, P. Lenz, C. Stiller, and R. Urtasun, “Vision meets robotics:
The KITTI dataset,” Int. J. Robot. Res., vol. 32, no. 11, pp. 1231–1237,
2013.
[18] Y. Tang et al., “Optimization strategies of fruit detection to overcome
the challenge of unstructured background in ﬁeld orchard environment:
A review,” Precis. Agricult., vol. 24, no. 4, pp. 1183–1219, 2023.
[19] M. Suresh Kumar and S. Mohan, “Selective fruit harvesting: Research,
trends and developments towards fruit detection and localization–a
review,” Proc. Inst. Mech. Eng. C, vol. 237, no. 6, pp. 1405–1444, 2023.
[20] Y. Lu and S. Young, “A survey of public datasets for computer vision
tasks in precision agriculture,” Comput. Electron. Agricult., vol. 178,
Nov. 2020, Art. no. 105760.
[21] C. Smitt et al., “PAg-NeRF: Towards fast and efﬁcient end-to-end
panoptic 3D representations for agricultural robotics,” IEEE Robot.
Autom. Lett., vol. 9, no. 1, pp. 907–914, Jan. 2024.
[22] C. Smitt, M. Halstead, T. Zaenker, M. Bennewitz, and C. McCool,
“Pathobot: A robot for glasshouse crop phenotyping and intervention,”
in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Robot. Autom. (ICRA), 2021, pp. 2324–2330.
[23] G. Roggiolani, M. Sodano, T. Guadagnino, F. Magistri, J. Behley, and
C. Stachniss, “Hierarchical approach for joint semantic, plant instance,
and leaf instance segmentation in the agricultural domain,” in Proc. IEEE
Int. Conf. Robot. Autom. (ICRA), 2023, pp. 9601–9607.
[24] R. Mur-Artal and J. D. Tardós, “ORB-SLAM2: An open-source slam
system for monocular, stereo, and RGB-D cameras,” IEEE Trans. Robot.,
vol. 33, no. 5, pp. 1255–1262, Oct. 2017.
[25] S. Thrun, “Probabilistic robotics,” Commun. ACM, vol. 45, no. 3,
pp. 52–57, 2002.
[26] T. Qin, P. Li, and S. Shen, “VINS-mono: A robust and versatile
monocular visual-inertial state estimator,” IEEE Trans. Robot., vol. 34,
no. 4, pp. 1004–1020, Aug. 2018.
[27] W. Xu, Y. Cai, D. He, J. Lin, and F. Zhang, “FAST-LIO2: Fast
direct LiDAR-inertial odometry,” IEEE Trans. Robot., vol. 38, no. 4,
pp. 2053–2073, Aug. 2022.
[28] Y. Zhang, W. Liang, M. Yuan, H. He, J. Tan, and Z. Pang, “Monocular
visual-inertial and robotic-arm calibration in a unifying framework,”
IEEE/CAA J. Automatica Sinica, vol. 9, no. 1, pp. 146–159, Jan. 2022.
[29] W. Yang, H. Hu, K.-w. Tse, S. Chen, W. Wen, and C.-y. Wen,
“LiDAR stereo visual inertial pose estimation based on feedforward and
feedbacks,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Unmanned Aircr. Syst. (ICUAS), 2024,
pp. 1042–1049.
[30] S. Chen, Y. Feng, C.-Y. Wen, Y. Zou, and W. Chen, “Stereo visual iner-
tial pose estimation based on feedforward and feedbacks,” IEEE/ASME
Trans. Mechatronics, vol. 28, no. 6, pp. 3562–3572, Dec. 2023.
[31] M. Kaess, H. Johannsson, R. Roberts, V. Ila, J. J. Leonard, and
F. Dellaert, “iSAM2: Incremental smoothing and mapping using the
Bayes tree,” Int. J. Robot. Res., vol. 31, no. 2, pp. 216–235, 2012.
[32] T.-M. Nguyen, S. Yuan, M. Cao, Y. Lyu, T. H. Nguyen, and L. Xie,
“NTU viral: A visual-inertial-ranging-LiDAR dataset, from an aerial
vehicle viewpoint,” Int. J. Robot. Res., vol. 41, no. 3, pp. 270–280, 2022.
[33] G. P. Huang, A. I. Mourikis, and S. I. Roumeliotis, “Observability-based
rules for designing consistent EKF SLAM estimators,” Int. J. Robot.
Res., vol. 29, no. 5, pp. 502–528, 2010.
[34] C. Campos, R. Elvira, J. J. G. Rodríguez, J. M. Montiel, and J. D. Tardós,
“ORB-SLAM3: An accurate open-source library for visual, visual–
inertial, and multimap slam,” IEEE Trans. Robot., vol. 37, no. 6,
pp. 1874–1890, Dec. 2021.
[35] A.
Pumarola,
A.
Vakhitov,
A.
Agudo,
A.
Sanfeliu,
and
F. Moreno-Noguer, “PL-SLAM: Real-time monocular visual SLAM
with points and lines,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Robot. Autom. (ICRA),
2017, pp. 4503–4508.
[36] Z. Liu and F. Zhang, “BALM: Bundle adjustment for LiDAR mapping,”
IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett., vol. 6, no. 2, pp. 3184–3191, Apr. 2021.
[37] A. Krizhevsky, I. Sutskever, and G. E. Hinton, “ImageNet classiﬁcation
with deep convolutional neural networks,” in Proc. Adv. Neural Inf.
Process. Syst., vol. 25, 2012, pp. 1–9.
[38] K.-W. Tse, R. Pi, W. Yang, X. Yu, and C.-Y. Wen, “Advancing UAV-
based inspection system: The USSA-net segmentation approach to
crack quantiﬁcation,” IEEE Trans. Instrum. Meas., vol. 73, pp. 1–14,
Jun. 2024.
[39] A. Kirillov et al., “Segment anything,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Int. Conf.
Comput. Vis., 2023, pp. 4015–4026.
[40] L. Nicholson, M. Milford, and N. Sünderhauf, “QuadricSLAM: Dual
quadrics from object detections as landmarks in object-oriented SLAM,”
IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett., vol. 4, no. 1, pp. 1–8, Jan. 2019.
[41] M. Zins, G. Simon, and M.-O. Berger, “OA-SLAM: Leveraging objects
for camera relocalization in visual SLAM,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Symp.
Mix. Augment. Real. (ISMAR), 2022, pp. 720–728.
[42] K.-W. Tse, R. Pi, Y. Sun, C.-Y. Wen, and Y. Feng, “A novel real-
time autonomous crack inspection system based on unmanned aerial
vehicles,” Sensors, vol. 23, no. 7, p. 3418, 2023.
[43] Y. Wang, B. Xu, W. Fan, and C. Xiang, “QISO-SLAM: Object-
oriented SLAM using dual quadrics as landmarks based on instance
segmentation,” IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett., vol. 8, no. 4, pp. 2253–2260,
Apr. 2023.
[44] I. Armeni et al., “3D scene graph: A structure for uniﬁed semantics, 3D
space, and camera,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Int. Conf. Comput. Vis., 2019,
pp. 5664–5673.
[45] M. P. Mathew and T. Y. Mahesh, “Leaf-based disease detection in bell
pepper plant using YOLO v5,” Signal, Image Video Process., vol. 16,
pp. 841–847, Apr. 2022.
[46] T. Mallick, P. P. Das, and A. K. Majumdar, “Characterizations of noise
in Kinect depth images: A review,” IEEE Sens. J., vol. 14, no. 6,
pp. 1731–1740, Jun. 2014.
[47] Y. Wang, C. Jiang, and X. Chen, “VOOM: Robust visual object odometry
and mapping using hierarchical landmarks,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf.
Robot. Autom. (ICRA), 2024, pp. 10298–10304.
[48] H. Kang, X. Wang, and C. Chen, “Accurate fruit localisation using high
resolution LiDAR-camera fusion and instance segmentation,” Comput.
Electron. Agricult., vol. 203, Dec. 2022, Art. no. 107450.
[49] T. Liu, H. Kang, and C. Chen, “ORB-Livox: A real-time dynamic
system for fruit detection and localization,” Comput. Electron. Agricult.,
vol. 209, Jun. 2023, Art. no. 107834.
Authorized licensed use limited to: INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING & MANAGEMENT TRUST. Downloaded on October 05,2026 at 02:46:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
