Counting of Grapevine Berries in Images via Semantic Segmentation using Convolutional
Neural Networks
Laura Zabawaa, Anna Kichererc, Lasse Klingbeila, Reinhard T¨opferc, Heiner Kuhlmanna, Ribana Roscherb
aBonn University, Department of Geodesy, Institute for Geodesy and Geoinformation
bBonn University, Remote Sensing Group, Institute for Geodesy and Geoinformation
cJulius K¨uhn-Institut, Federal Research Centre of Cultivated Plants, Institute for Grapevine Breeding Geilweilerhof
Abstract
The extraction of phenotypic traits is often very time and labour intensive. Especially the investigation in viticulture is restricted
to an on-site analysis due to the perennial nature of grapevine. Traditionally skilled experts examine small samples and extrapolate
the results to a whole plot. Thereby diﬀerent grapevine varieties and training systems, e.g. vertical shoot positioning (VSP) and
semi minimal pruned hedges (SMPH) pose diﬀerent challenges.
In this paper we present an objective framework based on automatic image analysis which works on two diﬀerent training
systems. The images are collected semi automatic by a camera system which is installed in a modiﬁed grape harvester. The system
produces overlapping images from the sides of the plants. Our framework uses a convolutional neural network to detect single
berries in images by performing a semantic segmentation. Each berry is then counted with a connected component algorithm. We
compare our results with the Mask-RCNN, a state-of-the-art network for instance segmentation and with a regression approach
for counting. The experiments presented in this paper show that we are able to detect green berries in images despite of diﬀerent
training systems. We achieve an accuracy for the berry detection of 94.0% in the VSP and 85.6% in the SMPH.
Keywords: Deep Learning, Semantic Segmentation, Geoinformation, High-throughput Analysis, Plant Phenotyping, Vitis
1. Introduction
Grapevine is an important crop, historically and economi-
cally. In contrast to many other crops, the recent development
in breeding is not faced towards yield enhancement, the goal
is to breed robust varieties which satisfy the same quality stan-
dards as the traditional ones [1]. To improve wine quality it
is not desirable to grow as many grapes as possible, because a
higher yield leads to a decrease in quality. Therefore thinning
procedures are applied to produce high quality grapes.
Grapevine is a perennial crop which means that the moni-
toring of the vines needs to be carried out in the ﬁeld. Tradi-
tional phenotyping is performed by skilled experts who apply
labour intensive and subjective methods (OIV[2], BBCH[3]).
The methods range from visual screening to counting manually
or weighting. The experts only sample small regions of large
grapevine plots and extrapolate the results for the whole ﬁeld
which leads to an error prone estimation.
The development of high-throughput phenotyping, the acqui-
sition of large amounts of phenotypic data and the automatic
analysis and extraction of phenotypic traits, was driven by the
development of sensors and new image analysis techniques.
RGB-, RGBD- or multi-spectral cameras can be used as well
as laser scanners. Gongal et al. [4] did a review about diﬀerent
sensors and algorithms which were used to detect and local-
ize fruits with a robotic background. Other authors use high-
throughput phenotyping for crop breeding [5], precision agri-
culture [6], the detection of diseases (e.g. [7], [8]) or anomalies
Figure 1: Prediction after application of the neural network. The image shows a
Riesling plant in the semi minimal pruned hedges training system. The resulting
berry mask is put over the original image to give a visual impression of the
result.
[9] or the classiﬁcation between diﬀerent plant types to identify
weeds (e.g., [10], [11]). Some of the main advantages of auto-
matic procedures are objectivity, repeatability and high quality
results.
Early approaches for high-throughput phenotyping for
grapevine aimed at detecting grapes in images which were
taken by handheld consumer cameras. The main focus lay in
the recognition of geometrical structures. This gives informa-
tion about the spatial arrangement of the objects and in some
Preprint submitted to Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing
March 30, 2020
arXiv:2004.14010v1  [cs.CV]  29 Apr 2020

cases even about the object size. For example, the approaches
used in [12] and [13] deﬁne berries as circular objects and use
Hough transform or radial symmetry transform to detect them.
In [14], convex surfaces are identiﬁed and used for fruit recog-
nition.
Later Nuske et al. [15] presented a large scale experiment
for berry detection with a moving platform and semi automatic
image acquisition with illumination in a realistic environment.
They apply a circular Hough transform to detect berry can-
didates and classify them with texture, colour and shape fea-
tures. Afterwards they cluster neighbouring berries into clus-
ters. Other approaches investigate the 3D structure of berries.
Rose et al. [16] used a stereo camera system to reconstruct point
clouds from image sequences. They used colour and shape fea-
tures to distinguish between canopy and berries. [17] used a
handheld laser scanner to produce high resolutions scans from
bunches under laboratory conditions. They extract several pa-
rameters regarding single bunches.
Since 2012, with the work of Krizhevsky et al. [18], neural
networks (NN) became state-of-the-art for image classiﬁcation
tasks. Moreover, by introducing convolutions to capture the
spatial characteristics of objects in images and extending NN to
convolutional neural networks (CNNs) [19], applications such
as pixel-wise semantic segmentation were advancing. How-
ever, solving the task as semantic segmentation does not allow
for a distinction of single instances in image regions, which
is most obvious for neighbored image objects of the same se-
mantic class. A distinction between single objects is realized
extending a semantic segmentation task to instance segmenta-
tion, which outputs bounding boxes and several segmentation
masks for single objects. One of the most famous approaches
is called Mask-RCNN [20] where a major disadvantage is that
the algorithms needs a predeﬁned number of object proposals.
In contrast to the detection approaches, several other ideas
how to count objects in images exist.
One possibility is to
count in an image without detecting their exact location. This
is realized, for example, by regression methods as presented in
[21] and [22]. The areas of application are diverse, from count-
ing penguins in colonies [23], cells in microscopy images (e.g.,
[24], [25]), buildings in high-resolution over head images [26]
or nearly class agnostic approaches [27]. These works focus on
avoiding explicit detection to count objects in images. Instead
they output either a single number for each image or in some
cases oﬀer the possibility to retrieve spatial information while
counting with the estimation of density maps.
In the ﬁeld of remote sensing with images the automatic de-
tection of buildings is often realized with the classical detection
approach. Yang et al. [28] proposed the combination of SegNet
with signed-distance labels to improve the detection of building
from images. Marmanis et al. [29] on the other hand reﬁne their
buildings by adding information from an edge detector network.
An overview about the usage of neural networks and deep
learning in agricultural applications was done by Kamilaris et
al. [30]. Similar techniques were used by several researcher re-
garding the problem of yield estimation of grapevine. Aquino
et al.
ﬁrst proposed a smartphone application where single
bunches had to be surrounded by a black background [31].They
detected circular light reﬂection and classiﬁed the results with
a neural network. Later they disregarded the need for a back-
ground box [32]. Another approach aimed at detecting regions
containing grapevine inﬂorescences in images with neural net-
works [33] and applying a circular Hough transform in a second
step. An adaptive network for semantic segmentation which
was evaluated on diﬀerent growth stages and data sets was pro-
posed by [34]. They either detect regions containing berries or
dotwise berry positions. An example for instance segmentation
via Mask-RCNN for grapevine was done by [35]. They applied
the Mask-RCNN to images which were simultaneously used for
a 3D reconstruction.
We present a novel and objective approach to determine the
number of berries as a decision base for thinning methods by
providing berry numbers for whole rows. The data collection
is performed with a modiﬁed grapevine harvester called Pheno-
liner [36]. The harvesting equipment is replaced by a camera
system which continuously records images laterally from the
canopy while the harvester drives along the rows.
To avoid a computationally intensive instance segmentation
we reformulate a semantic segmentation task in a way that
results in single object instances without object proposals. We
deﬁne three classes, ’berry’, ’edge’ and ’background’ so that
every single berry is separated from neighbouring berries by
an edge and can therefore be identiﬁed as a single instance.
There is no need to explicitly perform an instance segmentation.
The contributions of this paper are the following:
• we present a novel, accurate and eﬃcient way of counting
by reformulating an instance segmentation into a semantic
segmentation by introducing an additional class ’edge’
• we evaluate our algorithm thoroughly for two diﬀerent
pruning systems and show that our algorithm handles both
convincingly
• we compare our algorithm with two diﬀerent methods.
First a state-of-the-art instance segmentation with Mask-
RCNN. Secondly regression of a density map with U-Net.
2. Materials and Methods
2.1. Data
Our data set is part of a big campaign which was carried out
in 2018 in an experimental vineyard at the JKI Geilweilerhof
located in Siebeldingen, Germany. Data were acquired on three
diﬀerent dates in 2018. The ﬁrst images were taken before the
application of a thinning procedure, the second set of images
was taken shortly after the thinning. Further images were taken
shortly before harvest.
We observed two diﬀerent training systems, the vertical
shoot positioned (VSP) and the semi minimal pruned hedges
(SMPH). The two training systems feature diverse diﬃculties.
The VSP is the traditional training system (see Fig. 3). It
features one main branch with several thinner shoots branching
oﬀ(see Fig. 3a). Small branches and leafs are drastically re-
duced at the end of each season. Grape bunches mainly occur
2

(a) Phenoliner
(b) Camera System
Figure 2: 2a shows the phenotyping platform ”Phenoliner”, which was ﬁrst introduced by Kicherer et al. [36]. It is based on a grapevine harvester
where the harvesting equipment is replaced by a camera system. The system can be seen in 2b and consist of 5 cameras which deliver overlapping
images of the canopy. The vertical cameras are positioned with 35 cm between each camera resulting in a maximum distance between the outer
two cameras of approximately 70 cm. 1.2 m of the canopy are covered vertically.
in the bottom part of the canopy, are seldom covered by leafs
and feature a compact and homogeneous berry structure.
The SMPH has a thick canopy which occludes many bunches
(see Fig. 3b) . Due to the minimal pruning more than one
main branch exists. The grape bunches are spread through the
whole canopy although they mainly occur in the upper part of
the plant. The bunches itself have a loose structure and the
berries have inhomogeneous sizes.
In each training system three diﬀerent wine varieties were
observed, namely Riesling, Felicia and Regent. The ﬁrst two
are white varieties while Regent is a red one. All varieties are
part of the training set but for the evaluation we focus on the
variety Riesling (see Fig. 1).
2.2. Sensor System
We acquired images of grapevine with a ﬁeld phenotyping
platform called Phenoliner [36] which is shown in Fig. 2a. The
Phenoliner is a modiﬁed grapevine harvester. The harvesting
equipment is removed and replaced by a camera and illumi-
nation system. The system consists of 5 cameras which can
be seen in Fig. 2b. 3 RGB cameras are vertically aligned to
cover the canopy of each vine. 2 Additional cameras are in-
stalled in alignment with the bottom camera, building an L-
Shape. A near-infrared camera is positioned in the middle of the
horizontal cameras while the surrounding ones are RGB cam-
eras. The vertical cameras allow a 3D reconstruction, but this is
not in the scope of this paper. Further equipment of the Phe-
noliner consists of a real-time-kinematic (RTK)-GPS system
which enables the geo-referencing of each image. The cam-
eras are triggered simultaneously since they are synchronized
with the GPS clock. The geo-reference allows the identiﬁca-
tion objects which occur more than once in overlapping images,
though this is out of scope for this paper.
The cameras have a distance of approximately 75 cm to the
canopy which results in a coverage of 1.2 m of the canopy in
vertical direction. Each image has dimensions of 2592 × 2048
pixels and has a spatial resolution in the real world of 0.3 mm.
For further information about the camera system we refer the
reader to [36].
We observed 10 plants in both training systems with the three
vertical cameras, each plant was covered with 3 overlapping
images. Each image is processed individually. Images featuring
the VSP show on average 329 and a maximum of 890 berries
per image. The number of berries per image is higher for the
SMPH with 556 berries on average and a maximum of more
than 1100 per image.
2.3. Algorithms
The main contribution of this paper is the reformulation
of an instance segmentation.
More speciﬁcally we tackle a
counting task with a semantic segmentation.
We evade the
detection and segmentation of every berry instance in an image
by turning it into a pixel-wise classiﬁcation with the classes
’berry’, ’edge’ and ’background’. Fig. 4 shows an inferred
mask on the right side.
The cameras mounted on the Phenoliner record images in
DSLR-quality. They have a high resolution which makes them
expensive to work with in terms of memory consumption. Two
ways exist to handle high resolution images with convolutional
neural networks (CNNs), namely down sampling or cutting the
image into patches. Due to the ﬁne structure and small size
of the berries, down sampling leads to performance losses re-
sulting in missing berries or wrong classiﬁcations. Therefore
we crop each image into overlapping patches. The overlap is
3

(a) Vertical Shoot Positioned
(VSP)
(b) Semi Minimal Pruned Hedge
(SMPH)
Figure 3: Depiction of the two diﬀerent training systems. Fig. 3a shows an example for the vertical shoot positioned (VSP) system. It features one
main branch which grows over multiple years while the others are removed annually. The grape bunches mainly grow in the bottom part of the
canopy and feature a compact and homogeneous structure. In contrast Fig. 3b shows the semi minimal pruned hedges (SMPH). More branches
are allowed to grow and the canopy is thicker. The grape bunches are positioned all over the canopy but often grow in the top part. The bunches
itself are smaller, looser in structure and the berry size is inhomogeneous.
important to minimize edge artifacts. We use a majority vote
over each overlapping image region. The result is a full seg-
mentation mask with the same size and resolution as the orig-
inal image without hurting the performance. This means we
have to run the CNN multiple times per image which calls for
a lightweight yet powerful network architecture to eﬃciently
process each patch.
2.3.1. Network Structure
We use a traditional U-shaped decoder-encoder architecture
for pixel-wise semantic segmentation. The encoder backbone
is a MobileNetV2 [37] which introduced the inverted resid-
ual concept.
The network has mobile applications in mind
and poses an eﬃcient and lightweight feature extraction that
produces close to state-of-the-art results for tasks like classiﬁ-
cation, detection, and segmentation. The decoder used is the
DeepLabV3+ [38]. It reﬁnes the segmentation results with spe-
cial focus on object boundaries. The combination of encoder
and decoder results in a fully convolutional semantic segmen-
tation network. The framework is based on an open source im-
plementation by Milioto et al. [39]. We did not change the ar-
chitecture of the model, but made adaptations to the data input,
because we wanted to achieve the detection of single object in-
stances with a semantic segmentation network. Our dataset def-
inition is the focus of this work. The network segments berries,
edges and background accurately and performs fast on a mov-
ing platform. Keeping in mind that our application includes
large amounts of data, we decide on a lightweight architecture
which allows fast processing and decision processes.
2.3.2. Loss Function
As a loss function we use an Intersection over Union (IoU)
loss as proposed by Yu et al. [40]. The IoU depicts the similar-
ity between the prediction and the reference labels and can be
deﬁned as followed:
IoU = |A ∩B|
|A ∪B| =
TP
FP + TP + FN
(1)
A ∩B denotes the intersection and A ∪B the union of two
data sets, in our case the prediction and the reference masks.
The second formulation is an intuitive representation with clas-
sical image analysis measures. TP means true positive, FP false
positive and FN false negative.
We formulate the IoU as a loss as followed:
LIoU = −ln |A ∩B|
|A ∪B|
(2)
2.3.3. Image Annotation
We have two diﬀerent sets of annotated data. On the one
hand we have a set of pixel wise annotated images which are
used to train and evaluate the CNN. On the other hand we have
a second set of dot annotated images to evaluate the counting
of berries in a more extended fashion.
Pixel wise Annotation
The detection of single berries in images is formulated as a
semantic segmentation task with three classes: ’berry’, edge’
and ’background’. The labeling procedure consisted of colour-
ing every berry in an image individually. Adjacent berries are
labeled in diﬀerent colours. From each berry component we
compute the outer edge and label an edge with a ﬁxed width
(in our case 2 or 3 pixels). The edge width is a crucial parame-
ter to distinguish between single elements. We use a ﬁxed size
due to simplicity reasons. In a single image scenario we don’t
have access to the depth information and can therefore not use
4

Figure 4: Berry Segmentation Framework. For computational reasons each image is cut into overlapping image patches. Each image patch is classiﬁed by an
encoder-decoder network. The encoder backbone consists of an MobilenetV2 [37] and the decoder head of a DeepLabV3+ [38]. The patches are reconstructed into
an image mask. Due to the overlap we avoid border fragmentation by applying a majority vote on regions containing more than one patch.
an edge thickness which is depending on the distance to the
camera. Furthermore the variation of berry sizes in diﬀerent
training systems has a higher impact than the size variation due
to the distance from the camera. The remaining inner parts of
each berry are uniformly labeled into the class ’berry’. Every-
thing else is denoted with the class ’background’. An example
of the labeling and how the resulting mask with the berry edge
formulation looks can be seen in Fig. 5c and 5d.
We manually labeled 38 images showing diﬀerent grapevine
varieties and training systems to ensure a robust algorithm.
The labeled data set features 61 % images showing the SMPH
and 30 % show the VSP. This choice was done because the
SMPH features more variety in the berry size and distribution.
The occurrence of the diﬀerent varieties is as followed: 55 %
Riesling, 23 % Felicia and 23 % Regent. The included images
are from the two ﬁrst recording times to show a variety of
diﬀerent grape sizes. The images show the plants before the
veraison which means that all berries are green.
Dot wise Annotation
For evaluation purposes regarding the counting we created
a set of dot wise annotated images. Each berry is manually
marked with a dot. We annotated the images of 20 Riesling
vines, 10 in the VSP and 10 in the SMPH. Each plant is
covered by 3 overlapping images which leads to a total number
of 60 dot annotated images. In Fig. 5b we can see an example
for the dot annotations. In contrast to the pixel wise annotation
for training this is a time eﬃcient procedure and allows an
extended evaluation of the counting.
2.3.4. Post Processing
To reduce the number of misclassiﬁcations we utilize prior
knowledge about the geometry of berries. The main geomet-
ric property of berries is roundness although we investigate the
quality of the prediction as well. We explore two possibilities
to remove components which do not satisfy the deﬁnition of
roundness.
The initial steps of our post processing investigates the geo-
metric properties via the minor and major axis of every compo-
nent. This poses an intuitive deﬁnition of roundness. First we
discard components which have a relation between minor axis
amin and major axis ama j of less than 0.3. This leads to a reduc-
tion of arbitrary shaped objects. This post processing stage is
later called ”Axis”:
amin
ama j
> 0.3
(3)
The second step focuses on the area of each component. We
determine the radius of each component ¯r by computing the
mean between the minor and major axis. This radius is used
to compute the theoretical area A of a circle and compare it
with the actual area Acomp of the component. If the actual area
Acomp is more than 30 % smaller than the computed circle area
we discard the component. This leads to a reduction of leaf
edges which are wrongly classiﬁed as berries, because of their
crescent shape. This stage is later referred to as ”Area”:
A < 0.3 · Acomp = 0.3 · ¯r2 · π = 0.3 ·
amin + ama j
2
2
· π (4)
5

(a) Original image
(b) Dot wise annotation
(c) Original annotation
(d) Berry-edge-format
Figure 5: Diﬀerent stages of the annotation process. The ﬁrst picture shows the original image without annotations. Fig. 5b shows an example of
the dot annotated berries while Fig. 5c demonstrates how the berries are originally marked with diﬀerent colours. Later for each component an
edge is computed (pixel width of edge is adjustable).
A further visual investigation of the predictions shows, that
correctly identiﬁed berries are often well surrounded by an
edge. Misclassiﬁcations on the other hand are often insuﬃ-
ciently enclosed. Therefore we remove components which are
surrounded by less than 40 % and call the stage ”Edge”.
All parameters in the post processing step are chosen man-
ually after performing several experiment with diﬀerent val-
ues. We tried to achieve a suitable trade-oﬀbetween remov-
ing misclassiﬁcations and not removing too many correct ones.
Nonetheless all parameters allow an intuitive understanding of
the eﬀects.
3. Results
We thoroughly investigate our framework regarding diﬀerent
criteria and perform the following experiments:
• analysis of intersection over union (IoU) as a classical er-
ror analysis for a semantic segmentation
• variation of edge thickness and its inﬂuence on the detec-
tion of berries
• analysis of post-processing steps and their inﬂuence on the
detection of berries
• investigation of berry counting with R2-plots
• comparison of the berry count with a classical instance
segmentation approach, the Mask-RCNN
• comparison with U-Net which produces a density map.
• Qualitative evaluation of inference under diﬀerent condi-
tions
3.1. Experimental Setup
The network is trained on overlapping image patches. The
patches are extracted from the 38 pixel wise annotated images
(see ﬁrst part of section 2.3.3). Each patch has 432 × 256 pixels
and a 50 % overlap in vertical and horizontal dimension. We
6

chose an overlap of 50 % to cover each image region at least
twice (at the edges of the image) and otherwise up to 4 times.
This reduces the edge eﬀects of the inferred masks. A higher
overlap would be possible but results in a higher inference time
due to the higher number of image pixels. This results in a
drastic reduction of training time in comparison to training on
the full resolution of the images (2592 × 2048 pixels).
The data set contains 38 images, 90% are used in the training
set while 10% are used for testing. This means that 4 images
are chosen for testing, before we extract patches. Furthermore
we augment our whole data set to enhance the robustness of
our network. We perform three diﬀerent kinds of augmenta-
tions: ﬂipping, blurring and gamma shifting. We ﬂip the im-
ages only horizontally to preserve the characteristic that grape
bunches get smaller in the lower part. The blurring is applied
with random kernel sizes between 3 and 7 and the gamma shift
is randomly chosen in between 0.8 and 1.2. Including data aug-
mentations we end up with 5700 patches from 38 images.
We retrained a network which was pretrained on the ima-
genet dataset [41]. The learning rate of the network is 0.001
and the momentum is 0.9. The learning rate is decreased by
0.99 after 5 epochs.
3.2. Intersection over Union (IoU)
Furthermore we investigate the intersection over union (IoU)
for every class. The IoU, also referred to as the Jaccard coeﬃ-
cient, is a similarity measure between two sample sets A and B.
The deﬁnition is the same as for our loss. In our case one set
is the reference mask and the other one is the prediction mask
which is produced by the network. The evaluation is done for
each class separately. It is the most common measure to evalu-
ate a semantic segmentation.
Tab. 1 shows that we achieve an IoU for the class ’berry’ of
more than 75 % for both training systems. For the class ’edge’
the IoU is more than 10 % worse for 2 pixel edges compared
to 3 pixels. The result is still reasonable because a thin edge is
very hard to reproduce.
Edge [3 pix]
Edge [2 pix]
Average IoU [%]
76.0
73.0
IoU Background [%]
99.0
99.1
IoU Berry [%]
75.3
76.8
IoU Egde [%]
53.7
42.0
Table 1: Investigation of the intersection over union (IoU). The IoU is better
for berry than edge which can be explained with the nature of the classes. The
overlay of thin edges is unlikely.
To further validate our model we also performed a cross val-
idation on 30 images with an edge thickness of 2 pixels. For
each batch we selected 3 images as validation images and the
other 27 images as training images. We chose 30 images to
evenly split our data. We chose the 30 images to be still rep-
resentative for the whole network. The average IoU is slightly
worse than the above mentioned results with 69.96 ± 1.19 %.
The IoU for the background is 98.72 ± 0.45 %, for the class
’berry’ 72.03 ± 2.23 % and for the class ’edge’ 39.17 ± 2.41 %.
These values match the results from the fully trained network
and indicate that our model ﬁts well.
3.3. Inﬂuence of Edge Thickness and Training System
The class ’edge’ has a major impact on the correct detec-
tion of single berries. The whole evaluation is done without
the application of post processing steps. We aim for an explicit
diﬀerentiation between berries and examine two diﬀerent edge
thicknesses with this criterion in mind. We apply two diﬀerent
edge thicknesses, 2 and 3 pixels, on the two diﬀerent training
systems namely VSP and SMPH and evaluate the results in re-
lation to the dot annotated images. The precision P describes
the ratio between correctly predicted berries and all predicted
berries. Correctly predicted means that a predicted berry region
contains at least one manually annotated berry. The overall pre-
dicted berries contain the incorrectly detected berries as well,
where no manual annotation lies within a component.
P =
TP
TP + FP
(5)
The recall R describes the ratio between correctly predicted
berries and all manually annotated berries. We have to keep
in mind that one berry region can contain more than one man-
ually annotated berry. The F1-Score is a measure for the test
accuracy and contains the precision and the recall.
R =
TP
TP + FN
(6)
Tab. 2 shows that we recognize more berries in the VSP than
in the SMPH. The improvement over diﬀerent edge thicknesses
can mainly be seen in the increased number of correct detec-
tions for the SMPH and in the decrease of the wrong classiﬁca-
tions for both training systems. This means that the inﬂuence
of the edge thickness on the number of correct classiﬁcations is
smaller for the VSP than for the SMPH.
The SMPH is characterized by an inhomogeneous berry size
with a higher number of small berries compared to the VSP. Al-
though we trained with an edge thicknesses of 2 or 3 pixels, the
predictions feature thicker edges than the ground truth images.
Due to the small berry size some of the smaller berries only
consist of edge pixels if the thickness is too high. Our proposed
method is then not able to recognize these small berries with a
radius below 2 - 3 pixels.
3.4. Inﬂuence of Post Processing
The three post processing steps are applied to reduce the
number of misclassiﬁcations, regions where a berry is detected,
but no manually annotated berry is present. Fig. 6 shows an
example of possible misclassiﬁcations and how the post pro-
cessing steps reduces them.
Fig. 6a shows the original prediction of the classes ’berry’
and ’edge’ overlayed with the original image. Artifacts at leaf
edges can be seen as well as two berries which are fused into
one component. The initial post processing step reduces com-
ponents which have a major-minor-axis relation of less than 30
7

Training
System
Edge [pix]
Precision [%]
Recall [%]
F1-Score
VSP
2
85.41
93.90
89.46
VSP
3
81.21
92.59
86.53
SMPH
2
80.54
89.00
84.56
SMPH
3
78.65
85.26
81.82
Table 2: Comparison of various edge thickness values on diﬀerent training systems. We show Precision, Recall and F1-score.
(a) Original
(b) Axis
(c) Area
(d) Edge
Figure 6: Results of the diﬀerent ﬁlter stages. First we check the relation between major an minor axis. This removes objects which are not round.
The second stage checks the relation between actual pixel area and the computed area of a circle with the diameter of the mean from the main
axes. This stage removes objects which are round according to their main axes, but are not ﬁlled in. The last stage removes all components which
are not suﬃciently surrounded by an edge. We perform this computational intensive step as the last stage because we want to ﬁlter out as many
objects as possible.
%. The component which is removed is a small fragment in the
left lower edge. On the right side a component remains which
has a correct axis relation but is not ﬁlled in. In Fig. 6c this
component is removed because its actual area is smaller than
the computed area of a circle with a radius computed from the
mean of the main axis. The last and computational most inten-
sive step is the removal of all components which are not suﬃ-
ciently surrounded by an edge. Fig. 6d shows that the lowest
component is removed due to this criteria.
In table 3 we can see that for every ﬁlter stage the precision
is increased while the recall decreases. Our ﬁlter removes a lot
of misclassiﬁed berries but in some cases correctly classiﬁed
berries are removed as well. Since the increase of the preci-
sion is stronger than the decrease of the recall, we remove more
misclassiﬁed berries than correctly classiﬁed berries.
3.5. Evaluation of Berry Counting
The proposed processing chain has the goal to count berries
in the ﬁeld. We therefore evaluate the complete chain by com-
paring its output, the predicted berry masks with the ground
truth, our manually dot annotated berries. Especially in the
agricultural science community this is often done by correla-
tion plots. The evaluation of the berry count is done on the dot
annotated data set. It contains images of 10 plants in the VSP
and 10 plants in the SMPH. Each plant is covered by 3 images
which results in a total of 60 dot annotated images. We inves-
tigate the counting of berries by computing the coeﬃcient of
determination (R2). Fig. 7 shows the correlation plots for the
VSP and the SMPH. The x-axis shows the number of manually
counted berries while the y-axis shows the number of detected
berries. Each point of the plots depicts the numbers for one non
overlapping image patch cut from the images. The lines show
the correlation between the number of reference and detected
berries. The dashed line depicts a perfect correlation if we’d
always detected the correct number of berries for each image.
The continuous line is the actual correlation. We tend to under-
estimate the number of berries. The VSP shows with a R2 of
98.79 % a slightly better correlation than the SMPH with R2 of
97.15 %.
3.6. Comparison with other approaches
The task of object counting can be tackled with many diﬀer-
ent approaches. We want to show a comprehensive evaluation
that compares our approach to both an instance segmentation
and a regression approach where all approaches can be used to
solve the same problem. We compare our method against two
well established methods. The ﬁrst one is an instance segmen-
tation network called Mask-RCNN. The second one is a den-
sity map estimation with a U-Net. Each network has a diﬀerent
structure, number of parameters and inference time (see Tab.
4). Since our approach is very ﬂexible in the sense that other
segmentation networks can be used, for example U-Net, we still
wanted to show that our method can be used successfully with a
lightweight network architecture like the one proposed in Bon-
net [39].
8

Training
System
Axis
Area
Edge
Precision [%]
Recall [%]
F1-Score
VSP
-
-
-
85.41
93.90
89.46
VSP
0.3
-
-
88.32
93.67
90.92
VSP
0.3
0.3
-
88.92
93.65
91.22
VSP
0.3
0.3
0.4
91.63
92.46
92.04
SMPH
-
-
-
80.54
89.00
84.56
SMPH
0.3
-
-
82.80
88.88
85.73
SMPH
0.3
0.3
-
83.49
88.81
86.07
SMPH
0.3
0.3
0.4
87.79
86.90
87.34
Table 3: Comparison of diﬀerent ﬁlter strategies. Axis means that the relation between the minor and major axis of each component is not allowed to be smaller
than 0.3. For the computation of a circle area we compute the radius of each component as the mean of the minor and major axis. We then compare the computed
area with the actual area of each component. The actual area is not allowed to be smaller than 0.3 times the circle area. Edge means that every component needs to
be surrounded by at least 40% of edge.
(a) R2-Plot for VSP (R2 = 98.79%)
(b) R2-Plot for SMPH (R2 = 97.15%)
Figure 7: R2-Plots for the two diﬀerent training systems VSP and SMPH. The red circles depict the berry count for an image patch. The x-axis
shows the manual reference count, the y-axis the result of the connected component analysis of the predicted mask. The dashed line represents the
optimal mapping between ground truth and prediction (R2 = 100%). The continuous line is the estimated mapping, showing a good correlation in
both cases.
The two networks are trained and tested on the same data as
our approach.
3.6.1. Comparison with Mask-R CNN
One of the most well known approaches for instance seg-
mentation is the Mask-RCNN which was presented by He et al.
[20]. Mask-RCNN is an extension of Faster-RCNN [42] which
adds a third branch to the two already existing ones which pro-
vide a class label and a bounding box oﬀset. The new branch
outputs an object mask. The Mask-RCNN is therefore able to
detect single objects in images by providing a mask for each
one.
For training purposes we customize our already annotated
data set in which every berry is individually coloured. In con-
trast to our ’edge’ and ’berry’ annotation we now consider each
berry as a whole. Each berry object presented by an own mask
layer. In this layer only the classes ’berry’ and ’background’
exist. This means if we have 50 berries in an image we have 50
masks, one for each berry. These masks are stacked together to
build a label matrix with the depth corresponding to the number
of objects.
We use the Mask-RCNN implementation which is provided
by Abdulla et al. [43]. We train the network on image patches
with the dimensions 320 × 256 pixels. The maximum number
of objects is 80. Due to the small object sizes we use anchors
of the sizes 8, 16, 32, 64 and 128 pixels with anchor ratios of
0.5, 1 and 2.
To ensure a fair comparison between our algorithm and the
Mask-RCNN we don’t apply our post processing steps to the
network outputs. Furthermore we train the network with the
same patch size and number of images as the Mask-RCNN.
Fig. 8 shows a visual comparison between our algorithm and
the results of the Mask-RCNN. For both training systems, the
Mask-RCNN tends to overestimate the number of objects.
We further investigate and compare the counting of berries
in images with the coeﬃcient of determination R2 for our al-
gorithm and the Mask-RCNN for both training systems. Fig.
9d and Fig. 9a show the R2-plots for the Mask-RCNN. In both
9

Network
Parameters Mio
Inference time
Spatial
Size
Mask-RCNN
64.159
high
√
√
U-Net
7.769
low
√
×
Ours
3.188
low
√
√
Table 4: Comparison of diﬀerent counting approaches. Mask-RCNN is a classical deep learning instance segmentation approach. It’s a complex network with a
high number of parameters and is able to detect object locations and the spatial extend of single objects. The U-Net is used to estimate density maps which give a
count after integration. The spatial position of objects can be extracted but no information regarding their size. Our architecture with a MobileNetV2 encoder and a
DeepLab3V+ decoder has the smallest number of parameter but is able to extract the spatial position and extend of single berries.
(a) Manual Count
(b) Own
(c) Mask-RCNN
(d) Manual Count
(e) Own
(f) Mask-RCNN
Figure 8: Visual comparison of our own algorithm and the Mask-RCNN for an exemplary image patch for plant types SMPH (upper row) and VSP
(lower row). In the ﬁrst picture we can see the manual annotation for the counting reference. In the middle picture the mask which is outputed
by our proposed algorithm is shown, while the last picture shows the result of the Mask-RCNN. The Mask-RCNN features more falsely detected
berries in image regions where no berries should be detected.
cases the data points are very scattered. For our algorithm the
data points are closer together and are approximated well by
a straight line. The Mask-RCNN achieves R2 between 74 and
81 % while our implementation shows a better correlation be-
tween the manually counted berries and the detected ones with
R2 > 95 %.
There are several reasons which could be responsible for the
bad performance of the Mask-RCNN. We only have a limited
data set. We train our network on 5700 patches with a maxi-
mum number of 80 objects per patch or less. Since the Mask-
RCNN has to train more than 64 Mio. parameters this might be
not suﬃcient.
Another important aspect is the inference time. While we can
infer our network on nearly 2000 images in roughly a minute, it
takes the Mask-RCNN nearly an hour to process the same im-
ages. This diﬀers by a factor of 60. Although we are mainly in-
terested in the absolute inference time we have to keep in mind
that the network architectures are highly disparate. The number
of network parameters diﬀers by a factor of 20, the number of
parameters for the Mask-RCNN is approx. 64 Mio. while our
network only has 3 Mio. The inference time decreases more
than the parameter number increases.
3.6.2. Comparison with U-Net density map estimation
Besides the detection of objects, the problem of counting can
be addressed by regression approaches as well. The idea is to
estimate a density map from an input image and to integrate
over the map to retrieve the maxima in the density map. The
goal of the procedure is to provide a count of the objects present
in the image. We use a U-Net [44], an image segmentation
network which is often applied for biomedical data.
The annotation process for regression networks is simpler
than for detection network.
Instead of pixel wise masks or
bounding boxes a dot wise annotation is suﬃcient. We mod-
ify our data set of pixel wise annotated berries by providing the
centers of each component as the dot annotation for each object.
Around each dot a Gaussian Kernel with a deviation of one in
both directions is applied. We train the network1 on the same
image patches as the Mask-RCNN and our own network. The
patch dimensions are again 320×256 with a maximum number
of 80 objects in each image.
The regression with the U-Net performs slightly worse than
our approach. The R2 for the VSP is 97.19% compared to R2 =
1https://github.com/NeuroSYS-pl/objects counting dmap
10

(a) Mask-RCNN
(b) Regression
(c) Own
(d) Mask-RCNN
(e) Regression
(f) Own
Figure 9: Comparison of the berry count between Mask-RCNN, regression with U-Net and our approach. The Mask-RCNN overestimates the
number of berries drastically for the SMPH as can be seen in Fig. 9d. The R2 is with 74.33 % signiﬁcantly worse than for our algorithms. The
same is applicable for the VSP. The regression approach is only slightly worse than our approach.
97.74% from our approach. For the SMPH the diﬀerence is
slightly larger with R2 = 92.20% from the U-Net and R2 =
95.84% from our approach. The inference time is similar to our
approach and U-Net has only two times as many parameters as
our network (7.7 Mio).
The main advantage of our masks is the extraction of further
phenotypic traits like the berry size. The regression approach
yields density maps which could be used to extract the spatial
positions of the single objects but not their whole extent.
4. Qualitative investigation for diﬃcult conditions
As an outlook, we show the ability of our network to adapt to
diﬀerent conditions with two qualitative examples. First we in-
fer an image which was taken with the Phenoliner in 2017 (see
Fig. 10a). The illumination system and the background diﬀer
considerably from the setup in 2018. Furthermore the image
shows a red variety after the veraison and features dark berries.
The network is able to correctly detect most of the berries al-
though it never saw dark berries during training (see Fig. 10b).
As a second experiment we infer an image taken by a hand-
held SLR camera under natural sun light (see Fig. 10c). The
distance between camera and canopy is diﬀerent from the oth-
erwise nearly constant 0.75 m which are recorded by the Phe-
noliner. The observed variety shows green berries similar to the
berries from the training set. The network is able to correctly
detect most of the berries as well (see Fig. 10d).
Both examples show that our network has the potential to be
used in diﬀerent surroundings.
5. Conclusion and Outlook
In this paper, we presented a novel berry counting approach.
We are able to detect and mask single berry objects with a se-
mantic segmentation network by using a class ’edge’ to sep-
arate single objects from each other.
This enables the eva-
sion of the time and computationally intensive use of an in-
stance segmentation network like the Mask-RCNN. Although
we trained only one network we are able to handle two train-
ing systems with diﬀerent characteristics and challenges. We
achieve R2 = 98.79 % for the VSP and 97.15 % for the chal-
lenging SMPH.
We compared our approach with a state-of-the-art instance
segmentation approach, the Mask-RCNN. We achieve visually
as well as quantitative better results (R2 = 81.52 % for the VSP
and R2 = 74.33 % for the SMPH). Furthermore we outper-
form the inference time of the Mask-RCNN, which takes nearly
an hour while our approach can be inferred in minutes. The
comparison with a classical regression approach yields results
which are just slightly worse than our approach (R2 = 97.19 %
for the VSP and R2 = 92.20 % for the SMPH). But the ad-
vantage of our method is the potential extraction of additional
phenotypic traits like the berry size.
Despite these encouraging results, there is further space for
improvements. For example, we want to investigate in detail the
11

(a) Phenoliner Image
(b) Prediction
(c) SLR Image
(d) Prediction
Figure 10: Inference of our network on unrelated data. Fig. 10a and 10b show images which were taken in 2017 with the Phenoliner. The
illumination system and the background are diﬀerent from the current setup. Furthermore the images show Regent, a red variety. Although the
network never saw red wine berries it is able to detect them correctly. Fig. 10c and Fig. 10d show a picture which was taken with a handheld
camera under natural illumination. The network is nonetheless able to identify most of the berries.
application to other grapevine varieties. Furthermore, we want
to tackle the problem of counting berries in overlapping images
multiple times. The goal is to oﬀer the joint investigation of a
whole row of plants.
There is still a gap between counting berries and estimation
of yield such as correcting for counts in overlapping images, es-
timation of the number of ’invisible berries’ and a proper eval-
uation of these steps. These steps are part of current research
and beyond the scope of the paper.
Acknowledgment
This work was funded by German Federal Ministry of Edu-
cation and Research (BMBF, Bonn, Germany) in the framework
of the project novisys (FKZ 031A349) and partially funded
by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG, German Re-
search Foundation) under Germanys Excellence Strategy - EXC
2070 - 390732324.
References
References
[1] R. T¨opfer, L. Hausmann, M. Harst, E. Maul, E. Zyprian, R. Eibach, New
Horizons for Grapvine Breeding, Global Science Books, pp. 79–100.
[2] A. Alercia, R. Becher, J.-M. Boursiquot, R. Carara, P. C. amd
A. Costacurta, et al., 2nd edition of the oiv descriptor list for grape va-
rieties and vitis species, 2009.
[3] D. Lorenz, L. Eichhorn, H. Bleiholder, R. Klose, U. Meier, E. Weber,
Growth stages of the grapevine: Phenological growth stages of grapevine
(vitis vinifera l. ssp. vinifera) - codes and descriptions according to the
extended bbch scale, Australian Journal of Grape and Wine Research 1
(1995) 133–103.
12

[4] A. Gongal, A. Amatya, M. Karkee, Q. Zhang, K. Lewis, Sensors and
systems for fruit detection and localization: A review, Computers and
Electronics in Agriculture 116 (2015) 8–19.
[5] J. L. Araus, J. E. Cairns, Field high-throughput phenotyping: the new
crop breeding frontier, Trends in Plant Science 19 (2014) 52 – 61.
[6] S. Kipp, B. Mistele, P. Baresel, U. Schmidhalter, High-throughput pheno-
typing early plant vigour of winter wheat, European Journal of Agronomy
52 (2014) 271 – 278.
[7] J. Behmann, A.-K. Mahlein, T. Rumpf, C. R¨omer, L. Pl¨umer, A review
of advanced machine learning methods for the detection of biotic stress
in precision crop protection, Precision Agriculture 16 (2015) 239–260.
[8] A. Foerster, J. Behley, J. Behmann, R. Roscher, Hyperspectral plant dis-
ease forecasting using generative adversarial networks, in: International
Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium.
[9] L. Strothmann, U. Rascher, R. Roscher,
Detection of anomalous
grapevine berries using all-convolutional autoencoders, in: International
Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium.
[10] A. Milioto, P. Lottes, C. Stachniss, Real-time semantic segmentation of
crop and weed for precision agriculture robots leveraging background
knowledge in cnns, Proceedings of the IEEE Int. Conf. on Robotics &
Automation (ICRA) (2018).
[11] P. Lottes, J. Behley, N. Chebrolu, A. Milioto, C. Stachniss, Robust joint
stem detection and cropweed classiﬁcation using image sequences for
plantspeciﬁc treatment in precision farming, Journal of Field Robotics
(2019).
[12] R. Roscher, K. Herzog, A. Kunkel, A. Kicherer, R. T¨opfer, W. F¨orstner,
Automated image analysis framework for high throughput determination
of grapevine berry size using conditional random ﬁelds, Computers and
Electronics in Agriculture 100 (2014) 148–158.
[13] S. Nuske, S. Achar, T. Bates, S. Narasimhan, S. Singh, Yield estimation in
vineyards by visual grape detection, IEEE/RSJ International Conference
on Intelligent Robots and Systems (2011) 2352–2358.
[14] E. K. Nyarko, I. Vidovi´c, K. Rado˘caj, R. Cupec, A nearest neighbor ap-
proach for fruit recognition in rgb-d images based on detection of convex
surfaces, Expert Systems with Applications 114 (2018) 454–466.
[15] S. Nuske, K. Wilshusen, S. Achar, L. Yoder, S. Narasimhan, S. Singh,
Automated visual yield estimation in vineyards, Journal of Field Robotics
31 (2014) 837 – 860.
[16] J. Rose, A. Kicherer, M. Wieland, L. Klingbeil, R. T¨opfer, H. Kuhlmann,
Towards automated large-scale 3d phenotyping of vineyards under ﬁeld
conditions, Sensors 16 (2016).
[17] F. Rist, K. Herzog, J. Mack, R. Richter, V. Steinhage, R. T¨opfer, High-
precision phenotyping of grape bunch architecture using fast 3d sensor
and automation, Sensors 18 (2018) 763.
[18] A. Krizhevsky, I. Sutskever, G. E. Hinton, Imagenet classiﬁcation with
deep convolutional neural networks, Advances in neural information pro-
cessing systems (2012) 1097 – 1105.
[19] J. Long, E. Shelhamer, T.Darell, Fully convolutional networks for se-
mantic segmentation, Proceedings in the IEEE Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition (2015) 3431 – 3440.
[20] K. He, G. Gkioxari, P. Doll´ar, R. B. Girshick, Mask r-cnn, 2017 IEEE
International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV) (2017) 2980–2988.
[21] V. Lempitsky, A. Zisserman, Learning to count objects in images., NIPS
(2010) 1324–1332.
[22] J. P. Cohen, G. Boucher, C. A. Glastonbury, H. Z. Lo, Y. Bengio, Count-
ception: Counting by fully convolutional redundant counting,
CoRR
abs/1703.08710 (2017).
[23] C. Arteta, V. Lempitsky, A. Zisserman, Counting in the wild, in: Euro-
pean Conference on Computer Vision.
[24] W. Xie, J. A. Noble, A. Zisserman, Microscopy cell counting with fully
convolutional regression networks,
MICCAI 1st Workshop on Deepl
Learning in Medical Image Analysis (2015).
[25] Y. Guo, J. Stein, G. Wu, A. Krishnamurthy, Sau-net: A universal deep
network for cell counting, in: Proceedings of the 10th ACM International
Conference on Bioinformatics, Computational Biology and Health Infor-
matics, BCB ’19, pp. 299–306.
[26] S. Lobry, D. Tuia,
Deep learning models to count buildings in high-
resolution overhead images, in: 2019 Joint Urban Remote Sensing Event
(JURSE), pp. 1–4.
[27] E. Lu, W. Xie, A. Zisserman,
Class-agnostic counting,
CoRR
abs/1811.00472 (2018).
[28] H. L. Yang, J. Yuan, D. Lunga, M. Laverdiere, A. Rose, B. Bhaduri,
Building extraction at scale using convolutional neural network: Map-
ping of the united states, IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Applied
Earth Observations and Remote Sensing 11 (2018) 2600–2614.
[29] D. Marmanis, K. Schindler, J. Wegner, S. Galliani, M. Datcu, U. Stilla,
Classiﬁcation with an edge: Improving semantic image segmentation
with boundary detection, ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote
Sensing 135 (2018) 158 – 172.
[30] A. Kamilaris, F. X. Prenafeta-Boldu,
Deep learning in agriculture: A
survey, Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 147 (2018) 70–90.
[31] A. Aquino, M. P. Diago, B. Millan, J. Tardaguila, A new methodology for
estimating the grapevine-berry number per cluster using image analysis,
Biosystem Engineering 159 (2016) 80 – 95.
[32] A. Aquino, B. Millan, M.-P. Diago, J. Tardaguila, Automated early yield
prediction in vineyards from on-the-go image acquisition, Computers and
Electronics in Agriculture 144 (2018) 26 – 36.
[33] R. Rudolph, K. Herzog, R. T¨opfer, V. Steinhage, Eﬃcient identiﬁcation,
localization and quantiﬁcation of grapevine inﬂorescences in unprepared
ﬁeld images using fully convolutional networks, CoRR (2018).
[34] J. Grimm, K. Herzog, F. Rist, A. Kicherer, R. T¨opfer, V. Steinhage, An
adaptable approach to automated visual detection of plant organs with
applications in grapevine breeding, Biosystems Engineering 183 (2019)
170 – 183.
[35] A. K. Nellithimaru, G. A. Kantor, Rols : Robust object-level slam for
grape counting, in: The IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pat-
tern Recognition (CVPR) Workshops.
[36] A. Kicherer,
K. Herzog,
N. Bendel,
H.-C. Klck,
A. Backhaus,
M. Wieland, J. C. Rose, L. Klingbeil, T. L¨abe, C. Hohl, W. Petry,
H. Kuhlmann, U. Seiﬀert, R. T¨opfer, Phenoliner: A new ﬁeld pheno-
typing platform for grapevine research, Sensors (2017).
[37] M. Sandler, A. G. Howard, M. Zhu, A. Zhmoginov, L. Chen, Inverted
residuals and linear bottlenecks: Mobile networks for classiﬁcation, de-
tection and segmentation, CoRR abs/1801.04381 (2018).
[38] L. Chen, Y. Zhu, G. Papandreou, F. Schroﬀ, H. Adam,
Encoder-
decoder with atrous separable convolution for semantic image segmen-
tation, CoRR abs/1802.02611 (2018).
[39] A. Milioto, C. Stachniss, Bonnet: An open-source training and deploy-
ment framework for semantic segmentation in robotics using cnns, CoRR
(2018).
[40] J. Yu, Y. Jiang, Z. Wang, Z. Cao, T. Huang,
Unitbox: An advanced
object detection network, in: MM 2016 - Proceedings of the 2016 ACM
Multimedia Conference, volume 10072, pp. 516–520.
[41] J. Deng, W. Dong, R. Socher, L.-J. Li, K. Li, L. Fei-Fei, ImageNet: A
Large-Scale Hierarchical Image Database, in: CVPR09.
[42] S. Ren, K. He, R. Girshick, J. Sun, Faster r-cnn: Towards real-time object
detection with region proposal networks, NIPS (2015).
[43] W. Abdulla, Mask r-cnn for object detection and instance segmentation
on keras and tensorﬂow, https://github.com/matterport/Mask_
RCNN, 2017.
[44] O. Ronneberger, P. Fischer, T. Brox,
U-net: Convolutional networks
for biomedical image segmentation,
Medical Image Computing and
Computer-Assisted Intervention (MICCAI) 9351 (2015) 234–241.
13
