Graph-based View Motion Planning for Fruit Detection
Tobias Zaenker
Julius R¨uckin
Rohit Menon
Marija Popovi´c
Maren Bennewitz
Abstract— Crop monitoring is crucial for maximizing agri-
cultural productivity and efficiency. However, monitoring large
and complex structures such as sweet pepper plants presents
significant challenges, especially due to frequent occlusions of
the fruits. Traditional next-best view planning can lead to
unstructured and inefficient coverage of the crops. To address
this, we propose a novel view motion planner that builds a
graph network of viable view poses and trajectories between
nearby poses, thereby considering robot motion constraints. The
planner searches the graphs for view sequences with the highest
accumulated information gain, allowing for efficient pepper
plant monitoring while minimizing occlusions. The generated
view poses aim at both sufficiently covering already detected
and discovering new fruits. The graph and the corresponding
best view pose sequence are computed with a limited horizon
and are adaptively updated in fixed time intervals as the system
gathers new information. We demonstrate the effectiveness of
our approach through simulated and real-world experiments
using a robotic arm equipped with an RGB-D camera and
mounted on a trolley. As the experimental results show, our
planner produces view pose sequences to systematically cover
the crops and leads to increased fruit coverage when given a
limited time in comparison to a state-of-the-art single next-best
view planner.
I. INTRODUCTION
Advances in robotic automation enable highly flexible and
low-cost operation and intervention, such as in precision
agriculture [1] and human-aware service robots [2]. Endow-
ing these robots with recent progress in deep learning for
automated semantic interpretation of scene observations [3],
[4] is a promising avenue towards deployment in challenging
applications. To bridge the gap between environment per-
ception and intervention, a key robotic skill is to acquire
informative observations about the environment to solve
complex tasks, such as fruit harvesting [5]. Particularly,
the robot has to plan where to measure next to maximize
information about the environment while reasoning about
incomplete or uncertain observations, e.g., due to occlusion
of fruits by leaves.
This work examines the problem of view pose planning
under partial observability in 3D environments using a robot
arm equipped with an RGB-D camera in a restricted 3D
workspace. We aim at mapping initially unknown plant rows
This work has partially been funded by the Deutsche Forschungsgemein-
schaft (DFG, German Research Foundation) under Germany’s Excellence
Strategy – EXC-2070 – 390732324 – Phenorob and under the grant number
BE 4420/4-1 (FOR 5351: KI-FOR Automation and Artificial Intelligence
for Monitoring and Decision Making in Horticultural Crops, AID4Crops).
Tobias Zaenker, Rohit Menon, and Maren Bennewitz are with the Humanoid
Robots Lab, Julius R¨uckin and Marija Popovi´c are with the Institute
of Geodesy and Geoinformation, University of Bonn, Germany. Maren
Bennewitz is additionally with the Lamarr Institute for Machine Learning
and Artificial Intelligence, Germany.
Fig. 1: Our system deployed in the glasshouse. On the left, the
system setup is captured by an external camera. The top right shows
the current view of the arm camera. On the bottom right, the internal
map of the environment can be seen, as well as the view pose
graph generated by our planning algorithm. Connected view poses
are visualized with gray lines, while the light blue line shows the
currently predicted best view pose sequence to cover the current
section.
in a glasshouse with an arm mounted to a trolley maximizing
the number of covered fruits given limited mission time.
Traditional approaches naively explore the unknown scene
either randomly or cover it in a homogeneous non-targeted
fashion [6]. Such non-adaptive methods fail to focus on
informative regions as they are discovered online and can-
not reason about partially observed fruits or adapt to the
robot arm’s motion capabilities. Adaptive approaches have
achieved promising results optimizing a single next-best view
pose given the current environment map [7]–[9]. However,
these approaches rely on myopic greedy optimization of
single next-best view poses, which is prone to result in
suboptimal paths under partial observability. Furthermore,
none of the previous works integrate the robot arm’s motion
planning into the view pose optimization procedure. Thus,
these methods tend to plan paths that are inefficient to
execute in restricted workspaces, such as in glasshouses.
Therefore, we present a graph-based planner that generates
information-rich paths, i.e., sequences of view poses, to max-
imize the number of newly discovered fruit clusters while
considering the arm’s motion constraints. Our approach
replans the view pose sequence online as new observations
arrive to adaptively target fruits not yet sensed or not yet suf-
ficiently covered. To achieve this, we propose a new planning
procedure combining view pose information estimation and
the robot arm’s motion planning to ensure both information-
rich and efficiently executable paths. The key benefit of our
arXiv:2303.03048v2  [cs.RO]  15 Aug 2023

approach is its high data collection efficiency in restricted
robot arm workspaces.
In sum, (i) we show that our view pose planner increases
the number of detected fruit clusters in restricted robot arm
workspaces with a limited mission time budget compared to
a state-of-the-art next-best view planner; (ii) we verify that
our system can be readily deployed in real-world scenarios
accounting for the robot arm’s motion constraints where
the previous method is prone to fail to plan collision-
free paths; (iii) to support reproducibility, we open-source
our modular and easy-to-integrate ROS implementation of
the complete system: https://github.com/Eruvae/
view_motion_planner.
II. RELATED WORK
View pose planning has been widely studied in robotic ap-
plications, e.g., precision agriculture [8]–[10], environmental
exploration and monitoring [1], [11], [12], and household
robotics [13]. Traditional non-adaptive methods, e.g., cov-
erage path planning [6], compute a fixed path uniformly
covering the environment not focusing on regions of interest.
These methods assume a known static environment rendering
them impractical for autonomous exploration in initially
unknown environments.
In contrast, adaptive methods, such as our proposed ap-
proach, support online replanning based on incoming sensor
data. We distinguish between (i) mapless methods, which
plan based only on sensor data, and (ii) map-based methods,
which consider a global environment representation subse-
quently leveraged for planning. In the former category, Lehn-
ert et al. [14] proposed an approach for guiding a camera
array in a direction to improve target visibility in occluded
environments. Zhan et al. [15] introduced an object-centric
next-best view learning framework exploiting implicit neural
representations to improve 3D scene reconstruction. Lauri et
al. [16] developed a greedy planner minimizing the predicted
overlap between multiple depth cameras. In general, mapless
methods improve scalability for online planning in larger
environments. However, as they rely on locally greedy next-
best view pose optimization instead of non-myopic planning
of view pose sequences, they are susceptible to local minima
in geometrically complex environments.
For map-based planning, we focus on methods leveraging
volumetric maps [17], [18] to estimate expected information
gain as in our approach. Various works study myopic map-
based next-best view planning, i.e., greedily planning only
one step using sampling [8], [9], [14] or heuristic motion
primitives [13], [19] to generate candidate view poses. In a
similar problem setup to ours, Zaenker et al. [7] combined
global map-based sampling and local image-based occlusion
avoidance to greedily find the next-best views maximizing
coverage. For manipulator planning, Wang et al. [20] pro-
posed combining a hand-crafted map entropy metric with
an information gain learned directly from depth images.
However, such myopic approaches share the disadvantages
of mapless methods since they rely on a one-step lookahead.
Recent works show that non-myopic graph-based planning
methods yield promising performance across various tasks
and domains [11], [12], [21]. Amiri et al. [21] proposed
a graph-based planner for task completion under partial
observability in indoor environments. Choudhury et al. [11]
introduced an adaptive informative path planning method
leveraging partially observable Monte Carlo planning [22]
over graphs encoding a UAV’s workspace. Dang et al. [12]
developed a system for autonomous graph-based exploration
in subterranean environments combining locally bounded
rapidly exploring random graphs and global planning to
foster exploration of unknown space. Despite the widespread
applications of graph-based non-myopic planning, to the best
of our knowledge, our work is the first to consider graph-
based planning in view pose optimization for targeted fruit
monitoring. We propose a two-step planning approach. First,
we build a graph of candidate view poses. Then, we apply
a non-myopic best-first graph search to maximize detected
fruit clusters. In contrast to previous works in other domains,
our graph-based planner combines both information gain
optimization and motion planning to guarantee dynamically
feasible and efficiently reachable paths.
A large body of research tackles view pose planning
for crop or fruit monitoring to support selective harvesting
and yield estimation tasks. Sukkar et al. [10] proposed an
approach for observing apples with multiple robot arms using
Monte Carlo tree search. Similar to us, they plan in a non-
myopic fashion and evaluate candidate view poses based
on the predicted visibility of the fruit. A key difference
is that their approach does not utilize the global map to
sample targeted view poses, whereas we adaptively guide the
sampling procedure towards regions of interest. Van Essen et
al. [23] use an attention-driven approach to determine the
next-best views for 3D plant reconstruction. However, their
problem setup is different from ours since they consider
a plant-centric environment while we consider a moving
trolley in a cluttered glasshouse. Most similar to our work,
Zaenker et al. [8] introduced an adaptive sampling-based
planner for sweet pepper reconstruction. We build upon their
approach by incorporating graph-based non-myopic planning
catering to the robot’s motion constraints. This allows us
to achieve more informative and efficiently executable view
pose sequences in restricted workspaces.
III. SYSTEM OVERVIEW
We present a novel graph-based view pose planning ap-
proach maximizing the information gained over regions of
interest in initially unknown 3D environments. We consider
a robot arm mounted to a trolley moving along plant rows
in a glasshouse. Our goal is to maximize fruit coverage
with limited mission time in constrained workspaces. Fig. 2
overviews our proposed view pose planning system. Similar
to our previous work [8], we utilize OctoMap [24] to fuse
point cloud observations from the camera into a probabilis-
tic 3D map capturing unknown, occupied, free space, and
regions of interest, i.e., fruit clusters. Based on the current
map state, we sample target positions with potentially high

Mapping
View Pose
Sampling
Point clouds
Graph
Construction
Path Search
Targets
Poses
Camera
Trajectories
Visible cells
Graph
Fig. 2: Overview of our system. We use OctoMap, a probabilistic
3D map, to fuse point clouds updating the map state of unknown,
occupied, free space, and regions of interest (fruits). Based on
the map state, we sample potentially informative target positions
subsequently used in our novel view pose planner. The planner
constructs a graph of efficiently reachable view poses around target
positions and performs a best-first graph search in parallel to find
informative and quick-to-execute view pose sequences.
information value, e.g., fruits or frontiers of known space.
Our new view motion planner samples efficiently reachable
view pose candidates around these target positions account-
ing for the robot arm’s motion constraints. This way, we
achieve fast path execution in restricted workspaces, such as
glasshouses. Reachable nearby view poses are connected to
a view pose candidate graph. A key feature of our approach
is the non-myopic graph-based best-first path search. The
planned path is executed for a fixed time interval before we
replan a new path to adaptively target fruit clusters as they
are discovered. To improve computation time, we execute
graph construction and path search in parallel. Section IV
overviews our path planning approach.
IV. PLANNING APPROACH
Our key idea is to disentangle path planning into two
highly parallelizable procedures. First, we construct a view
pose candidate graph. We sample view poses facing poten-
tially informative target positions, e.g., detected fruits, given
the current map state. To achieve high path execution speed
in restricted workspaces, we account for the robot arm’s
motion constraints while sampling view pose candidates.
Second, we plan view pose sequences utilizing a best-first
path search over the view pose candidate graph to maximize
fruit coverage. To ensure informative and quick-to-execute
paths, our new planning objective combines view pose utility
estimation and motion planning. To adaptively target newly
discovered fruits, we replan paths after a fixed time has
elapsed. This way, our planning approach enables efficiently
executable paths in workspace-constrained glasshouses and
maximizes monitored fruit clusters under limited mission
time. The following subsections describe our graph construc-
tion and path search.
A. Sampling-Based Graph Construction
An important basis for our view pose planning approach is
a constantly evolving graph generated by sampling view pose
candidates facing potentially informative target positions,
e.g., detected fruits. The extraction of target positions is
updated based on the current map state, i.e., as new point
cloud observations arrive. We adapt OctoMap [24] to our
Fig. 3: View pose candidate graph illustrating view poses facing
three different target position types. First, we sample view poses
facing regions of interest (ROIs), i.e., fruits (red arrows). Second,
we sample view poses targeting occupied space, i.e., plants with
potentially new fruits (green arrows). Third, we sample view poses
in direction of frontiers of unknown space to foster exploration (blue
arrows). The gray edges connect nearest-neighbor view poses. Light
blue depicts the most informative planned path.
fruit mapping task and sequentially fuse point cloud obser-
vations and their associated fruit detections into a global
probabilistic 3D map maintaining our current belief about
unknown, occupied, free space, and regions of interest,
i.e., fruit clusters. The following subsections describe the
sampling-based target position generation, sampling of view
pose candidates around a given target position, and the graph
construction based on the view pose candidates.
1) Target Position Sampling: We sample three differ-
ent types of target positions with user-defined probabilities
specifying the trade-off between exploring the scene and
exploiting detected regions of interest. First, we sample target
positions at the frontiers between regions of interest and
unknown space to complete potentially not yet monitored
fruit parts. Second, we sample target positions at the frontiers
between occupied and unknown space to foster exploration of
plants potentially carrying new fruits. Third, we sample target
positions at the frontiers between free and unknown space
to foster exploration of the whole scene. We re-sample the
set of target positions after each new point cloud observation
is fused into the map. Then, we repeatedly choose a target
position uniformly at random from all sampled targets.
Around the chosen target position, we sample a view pose
candidate that is efficiently reachable by the robot arm.
2) View Pose Candidate Sampling: In our previous work
[8], we sample view pose candidates from targets by casting
rays in random directions within a user-defined range from
the targets, and checking the rays for occlusions to obtain
views with visibility of the target. This works well in
open, relatively unconstrained setups, where the robot arm’s
workspace is large and sampled view poses can be reached
with high probability.

Algorithm 1: Path search
OctoMap state M;
View pose candidate graph G;
Priority queue P; // sorted by utility
P.insert(G.camNode());
C(G.camNode()) = {}; // visible cell set
while not P.isEmpty() do
view pose = P.pop();
for nb pose : G.neighbors(view pose) do
if nb pose.isExpanded() then
continue;
end
nb pose.addPredecessor(view pose);
nb pose.setAsExpanded();
visible cells = M.castRays(nb pose);
C(nb pose) = C(view pose) + visible cells;
nb pose.computeUtility(C);
P.push(nb pose);
end
end
However, in more restricted setups, there is a high likeli-
hood of the sampled view being unreachable or lying outside
of the arm’s workspace. This case is most common in real-
world glasshouses, like our setup where the robot arm is
mounted on a trolley following plant rows. Therefore, we
changed the approach to sample view poses at random from
the robot arm’s predefined workspace, looking towards a
given target. Ray-casting is applied afterwards to check for
potential occlusions and discard views where the target is
not visible. Collision-free reachable view pose candidates are
stored for subsequent graph construction.
3) Graph Construction: We utilize previously sampled
view pose candidates to construct a graph subsequently
used to search the view pose sequence maximizing fruit
coverage. Fig. 3 exemplarily shows sampled view pose
candidates for the three target position types connected to
a nearest-neighbor pose graph. Each view pose candidate
is inserted as a node into the graph together with its robot
arm configuration. Then, we insert edges from each node
to its k nearest-neighbor nodes with minimal robot arm
joint angle configuration difference and point-wise collision-
free arm trajectory. For each collision-free trajectory from
one view pose to another, we compute its execution time
using MoveIt [25] and store it as additional edge information
exploited during the path search to find efficiently executable
view pose sequences. Similarly, we add the camera pose as
a node and connect it to its nearest-neighbor view poses.
By construction, the graph consists of view poses that are
efficiently reachable in glasshouses and provide potentially
informative observations balancing exploration and fruit cov-
erage. The following subsection introduces our path search
over the view pose candidate graph.
B. Graph-Based Path Search
Algorithm 1 summarizes our approach to search a path in
the view pose candidate graph introduced in section IV-A.
We start the path search procedure from the camera pose
node. We recursively expand nodes along the graph, similar
to the classical depth-first search. At each expanded view
pose node, we compute the visible unknown, free, occupied,
and region of interest cells by casting rays into the current
map state. As we traverse the graph, map cells are visible
from multiple view poses along the path ψt = (n1, . . . , nt)
of length t, as illustrated in Fig. 4. Thus, in each node
expansion step t, we insert the visible map cells into a set of
unique map cells C(nt) visited while traversing the graph up
to the current node nt. Based on the set of visible map cells
C(nt), we estimate the node’s utility U(nt) proposing a new
planning objective combining information gain estimation
and the path’s execution time:
U(nt) = C(nt)unk
L(ψt)
(ROI (ψt) + 1)
(t + 1)
,
(1)
where C(nt)unk is the number of uniquely visible unknown
cells while traversing ψt, ROI (ψt) is the number of view
poses in ψt facing towards detected fruits and L(ψt) is
the path execution time summed along edges of ψt. This
way, we guide our planner towards regions of interest,
i.e., fruit clusters, and at the same time foster exploration.
Normalizing the information gain estimate by the path’s
execution time ensures efficient arm trajectories, especially
in strongly restricted robot arm workspaces.
The expanded node nt is inserted into a priority queue
with priority U(nt). In the next iteration, the node with
the highest utility is extracted, and its not yet expanded
neighbors are expanded in a best-first fashion. For each
expanded view pose, we store its predecessor with the highest
utility up to this node. To find the to-be-executed view pose
sequence maximizing the utility, we backtrack these stored
predecessors starting at the view pose with the highest utility
so far until the camera pose is reached.
n1
n2
l2
n0
l1
n3'
n3
l3
Camera
Pose
n1, n2, n3- Graph Nodes (Viewposes)
l1, l2, l3- Graph Edges (Execution Time) 
n3'- Discarded
due to collision
in path between
n2 and n3'
Unknown Cell
Occupied Cell
ROI Cell
Fig. 4: View motion graph with view poses as the nodes and
execution times as the edges of the graph with an illustrative
representation of the occupancy information.

(a) Scenario 1
(b) Scenario 2
Fig. 5: Glasshouse simulation scenarios. Left: 12 plants arranged in
two rows with a total of 47 sweet pepper fruits. Right: 24 plants
over two levels with two rows each and 94 sweet pepper fruits in
total. A robot arm equipped with an RGB-D camera is mounted to
the trolley platform moving between the two rows. In Scenario 2,
the trolley vertically lifts and lowers the robot arm.
The planned path is executed for a maximum look-ahead
distance. During path execution, we fuse observations ob-
tained at planned view poses into the map. Before executing
the next view pose, we check for collisions based on the
updated map state. In case of collisions, we abort the
path execution, remove the corresponding edge from the
graph, and replan a new path based on the updated graph
as illustrated in Fig. 4. In case the reached camera pose
differs from the planned view pose, we insert a collision-
free edge from the camera pose to the planned view pose.
If no collision-free edge can be inserted, we replan the path
starting from the current camera pose.
V. EXPERIMENTS
We compare our view motion planning (VMP) approach to
our previously developed single next-best region of interest
(ROI) view planner (RVP) [8] in a simulated scenario to
evaluate the generated view poses and the corresponding
fruit discovery capabilities. Furthermore, we conducted ex-
periments in a commercial glasshouse environment to qual-
itatively compare the resulting paths.
A. Experimental Setup
We design two glasshouse simulation scenarios resembling
real-world deployment conditions as illustrated in Fig. 5. The
simulation contains a robot arm mounted to a trolley platform
moving horizontally along plant rows and vertically lifting
the robot arm if needed. We simulate an RGB-D camera
attached to the robot arm providing realistic point cloud
observations. The first simulation scenario consists of two
plant rows on one vertical level with 12 plants and 47 fruits in
total. The second scenario consists of two vertical levels with
two plant rows and 12 plants each and 94 fruits in total. This
scenario mimics deployment with tall sweet pepper plants.
Each plant row is partitioned into four equidistant horizontal
segments, 1 m apart from each other. This way, Scenario 1
and Scenario 2 contain 8 and 16 segments, respectively. The
trolley is positioned accordingly in each segment, and the
arm’s sampling and workspace are adjusted to each segment.
To evaluate our view motion planner’s fruit monitoring
performance in restricted workspaces, we compare it against
(a) Scenario 1
(b) Scenario 2
Fig. 6: Simulated experimental results. RVP (blue line) represents
our old view pose planner which plans only the next-best view [8].
VMP (red line) is our newly developed graph-based view motion
planner. Black vertical lines mark segment changes after 60 s
exploration. Note that they are further apart since they include the
transition to the next segment.
our previously developed state-of-the-art next-best region of
interest planner [8]. In contrast to our non-myopic graph-
based path search, the RVP approach samples view pose
candidates based on the current map state and greedily
chooses the single next-best view pose using a utility func-
tion not accounting for the robot arm’s motion constraints.
To assess the fruit monitoring performance under limited
mission time, each planner is assigned 60 s to process a
segment. We quantify the planning performance by counting
detected fruits over the mission time including the planner’s
computation time and path execution time. As both planning
approaches utilize stochastic view pose sampling, we conduct
five experiment runs per planner in each scenario and report
the mean and standard deviation of the performance metric.
B. Fruit Detection
We aim to show the fruit detection performance of our
VMP approach compared to the state-of-the-art RVP method
after a fixed mission time. To evaluate the fruit detection
performance of the two planners, we used our previously de-
veloped sweet pepper shape estimator (Marangoz et al. [26]).
The shape estimator runs Voxblox [17] on the extracted fruit
point clouds to obtain an accurate fruit map, then clusters the
obtained surface point cloud and matches superellipsoids to
estimate the fruit shapes and positions. The estimated fruit
positions are compared with the ground truth fruits extracted
from the plant models of the simulation to verify that only
correctly detected peppers are counted.
Fig. 6 shows how the two planners vary in their approach
to detecting fruit clusters over time. In Scenario 1, VMP
detects fruits at a steady rate, overcoming its deficit vis-a-
vis RVP in the initial segments and thereby improving its
performance towards the end of the mission, thanks to its
systematic path search. RVP, on the other hand, finds distant
view poses that cover parts of the neighboring plant segments
as well, explaining the early advantage. At the end of the
mission, both planners achieve a similar fruit count (38.2 ±
3.9 for RVP and 39.2±1.9 for VMP out of the 47 detectable
fruits). In Scenario 2, VMP outperforms RVP in detecting

fruits. VMP detects on average 87.4±2.9 compared to RVP’s
detection of 72.2±1.9 fruits out of a total of 94 fruits, in the
end. The performance of VMP in Scenario 2 is similar to that
in Scenario 1, with a steady rate of fruit detection. Similar
to Scenario 1, RVP detects greater number of clusters in the
initial phase. However, it is not able to take advantage of its
initial lead, and flattens out towards the end as it is unable
to find sufficient view poses to detect new fruits within the
limited mission time.
C. View pose Execution Time
In this section, we verify that our VMP reduces the time
elapsed between two consecutive view poses crucial for
monitoring efficiency. The measured time elapsed between
two consecutive view poses includes both the planner’s
computation time and the motion execution time.
Fig. 7 shows the average time between reaching new view
poses within the segments. It is noticeable that VMP can
execute more view poses within the same time budget. It
can be seen that VMP reaches new poses more quickly.
Especially in Scenario 2, where the workspace is more
restricted, the number of outliers that need greater planning
time increases for RVP leading to the execution of fewer
informative view poses, as compared to VMP. While the
required time for VMP also increases, the outliers are fewer.
This could be due to the challenge of finding collision-free
motion plans in such highly restricted environments. Due to
the myopic nature of next-best view planning, RVP greedily
finds view poses that may have high information gain but not
necessarily in the immediate vicinity of its current pose. This
can lead to either repeated global motion planning failures,
longer computation time, or motion execution time due to
convoluted trajectories. All factors can lead to inefficient
reachability of consecutive view poses. VMP, on the other
hand, connects only nearby view poses. Even if the next view
pose needs to be discarded due to detection of a potential
collision, the path lengths are smaller and the sequence is
planned for a shorter horizon. This also explains why the
advantage is especially obvious in Scenario 2: due to the
second vertical level, the environment is more constrained
and VMP’s limited sequence of nearby view poses helps it
to shorten the time interval. Also, since graph construction
and path search can run in parallel, VMP can move to new
view poses continuously while RVP replans at each pose.
D. Real-World Glasshouse Experiments
We demonstrate the performance of our approach in
a real-world indoor glasshouse mission mapping a sweet
pepper plant row with a robot arm mounted on a trolley
platform [27]. Details on the used hardware can be found in
the referenced paper.
Similar to our simulation setup described in section V-A,
we partitioned the row into equidistant segments monitoring
the row segment by segment at a fixed platform height. Fig. 8
illustrates a planned view pose enabling the arm to observe
a pepper fruit from below to avoid occlusions from the leaf
Fig. 7: Time between reaching new view poses. Left: Comparison
in Scenario 1 between the old (RVP) and our new planner (VMP).
Right: Scenario 2. In both cases, our new system finds new view
poses in less time, which enables it to integrate more views within
the given time budget to obtain a more complete map.
Fig. 8: Trolley in an indoor glasshouse. The main image shows the
arm recorded with an external camera. In the top right, the view of
the arm camera is shown. The white circles mark the same pepper
in both views. The fruit that is hidden behind the leaf in the camera
is not visible from the external view.
in front of it verifying the benefit of our proposed view pose
utility function.
Fig. 9 shows the obtained fruit clusters along a plant row.
While no fruit ground truth is available, we qualitatively
validate that our approach plans view poses monitoring the
majority of fruit clusters. Utilizing our clustering and fruit
shape estimation approach [26], the resulting fruit map could
be leveraged in downstream tasks, e.g. yield estimation.
Fig. 10 showcases paths planned with our VMP approach
compared to paths planned with the RVP method. Our VMP
approach generates shorter, straighter trajectories, whereas
Fig. 9: Fruit clusters obtained using our view motion planner
deployed on a platform in an indoor glasshouse. Our planning
approach enables monitoring the majority of fruit clusters.

(a) VMP path
(b) RVP path
Fig. 10: Left: Example path obtained from the new view motion
planner. Right: Path resulting from our old next-best view plan-
ner [8]. In comparison, the new view pose sequence planner planned
smaller segments that are more easily executed.
RVP plans more complicated and inefficient to execute paths
to distant view poses. These results verify the general appli-
cability of our approach in real-world glasshouse missions
while previous methods fail to plan feasible paths or degrade
in efficiency.
VI. CONCLUSIONS
We presented a novel graph-based view motion planning
approach for fruit monitoring using a robot arm in glasshouse
environments. Our planner constructs a graph of viable
view pose candidates and connects neighboring, efficiently
reachable poses. It then non-myopically searches the graph
for the view pose sequence that maximizes fruit cluster
detections under consideration of limited motion capabilities
in constrained workspaces. The experimental results demon-
strated that our new graph-based planner detects more fruit
clusters in restricted robot arm workspaces given a limited
time budget when compared against state-of-the-art single
next-best view planning. Moreover, we showed the real-
world applicability of our approach for efficiently monitoring
sweet peppers in an indoor glasshouse, where the small
motion segments of our approach are essential for reliable
execution. In the future, we plan to integrate our system with
more accurate mapping systems to improve the quality of
the fruit reconstruction and enable a better estimation of the
information gain along the view pose sequences.
REFERENCES
[1] A. C. Rodr´ıguez, S. D’Aronco, K. Schindler, and J. D. Wegner,
“Mapping oil palm density at country scale: An active learning
approach,” Remote Sensing of Environment, vol. 261, p. 112479, 2021.
[2] T. Carlson and Y. Demiris, “Human-wheelchair collaboration through
prediction of intention and adaptive assistance,” in 2008 IEEE Inter-
national Conference on Robotics and Automation.
IEEE, 2008, pp.
3926–3931.
[3] J. Long, E. Shelhamer, and T. Darrell, “Fully convolutional networks
for semantic segmentation,” in Proc. of the IEEE Conf. on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2015, pp. 3431–3440.
[4] V. Badrinarayanan, A. Kendall, and R. Cipolla, “Segnet: A deep
convolutional encoder-decoder architecture for image segmentation,”
IEEE transactions on pattern analysis and machine intelligence,
vol. 39, no. 12, pp. 2481–2495, 2017.
[5] H. Zhou, X. Wang, W. Au, H. Kang, and C. Chen, “Intelligent robots
for fruit harvesting: Recent developments and future challenges,”
Precision Agriculture, vol. 23, no. 5, pp. 1856–1907, 2022.
[6] E. Galceran and M. Carreras, “A Survey on Coverage Path Planning
for Robotics,” Journal on Robotics and Autonomous Systems (RAS),
vol. 61, no. 12, pp. 1258–1276, 2013.
[7] T. Zaenker, C. Lehnert, C. McCool, and M. Bennewitz, “Combining
local and global viewpoint planning for fruit coverage,” in Proc. of
the Europ. Conf. on Mobile Robotics (ECMR), 2021.
[8] T. Zaenker, C. Smitt, C. McCool, and M. Bennewitz, “Viewpoint
planning for fruit size and position estimation,” in Proc. of the
IEEE/RSJ Intl. Conf. on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), 2021.
[9] R. Menon, T. Zaenker, and M. Bennewitz, “NBV-SC: Next best
view planning based on shape completion for fruit mapping and
reconstruction,” Proc. of the IEEE/RSJ Intl. Conf. on Intelligent Robots
and Systems (IROS), 2023.
[10] F. Sukkar, G. Best, C. Yoo, and R. Fitch, “Multi-robot region-
of-interest reconstruction with Dec-MCTS,” in Proc. of the IEEE
Intl. Conf. on Robotics & Automation (ICRA), 2019.
[11] S. Choudhury, N. Gruver, and M. J. Kochenderfer, “Adaptive infor-
mative path planning with multimodal sensing,” in Proceedings of
the International Conference on Automated Planning and Scheduling,
vol. 30, 2020, pp. 57–65.
[12] T. Dang, F. Mascarich, S. Khattak, C. Papachristos, and K. Alexis,
“Graph-based path planning for autonomous robotic exploration in
subterranean environments,” in 2019 IEEE/RSJ International Confer-
ence on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS).
IEEE, 2019, pp.
3105–3112.
[13] R. Monica and J. Aleotti, “Contour-based next-best view planning
from point cloud segmentation of unknown objects,” Autonomous
Robots, vol. 42, no. 2, pp. 443–458, 2018.
[14] C. Lehnert, I. Sa, C. McCool, B. Upcroft, and T. Perez, “Sweet pepper
pose detection and grasping for automated crop harvesting,” in Proc. of
the IEEE Intl. Conf. on Robotics & Automation (ICRA).
IEEE, 2016,
pp. 2428–2434.
[15] H. Zhan, J. Zheng, Y. Xu, I. Reid, and H. Rezatofighi, “Ac-
tiveRMAP: Radiance Field for Active Mapping And Planning,” arXiv
preprint:2211.12656, 2022.
[16] M. Lauri, J. Pajarinen, J. Peters, and S. Frintrop, “Multi-Sensor Next-
Best-View Planning as Matroid-Constrained Submodular Maximiza-
tion,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters (RA-L), vol. 5, no. 4,
pp. 5323–5330, 2020.
[17] H. Oleynikova, Z. Taylor, M. Fehr, R. Siegwart, and J. Nieto,
“Voxblox: Incremental 3d euclidean signed distance fields for on-board
mav planning,” in Proc. of the IEEE/RSJ Intl. Conf. on Intelligent
Robots and Systems (IROS), 2017.
[18] J. Delmerico, S. Isler, R. Sabzevari, and D. Scaramuzza, “A com-
parison of volumetric information gain metrics for active 3D object
reconstruction,” Autonomous Robots, vol. 42, p. 197–208, 2018.
[19] E. Palazzolo and C. Stachniss, “Effective exploration for mavs based
on the expected information gain,” Drones, vol. 2, no. 1, p. 9, 2018.
[20] Y. Wang, S. James, E. K. Stathopoulou, C. Beltr´an-Gonz´alez, Y. Kon-
ishi, and A. Del Bue, “Autonomous 3-d reconstruction, mapping, and
exploration of indoor environments with a robotic arm,” IEEE Robotics
and Automation Letters, vol. 4, no. 4, pp. 3340–3347, 2019.
[21] S. Amiri, K. Chandan, and S. Zhang, “Reasoning with scene graphs
for robot planning under partial observability,” IEEE Robotics and
Automation Letters (RA-L), vol. 7, no. 2, pp. 5560–5567, 2022.
[22] D. Silver and J. Veness, “Monte-carlo planning in large pomdps,”
Advances in neural information processing systems, vol. 23, 2010.
[23] R. van Essen, B. Harel, G. Kootstra, and Y. Edan, “Dynamic view-
point selection for sweet pepper maturity classification using online
economic decisions,” Applied Sciences, vol. 12, no. 9, p. 4414, 2022.
[24] A. Hornung, K. M. Wurm, M. Bennewitz, C. Stachniss, and W. Bur-
gard, “OctoMap: An efficient probabilistic 3D mapping framework
based on octrees,” Autonomous Robots, 2013.
[25] I.
A.
Sucan
and
S.
Chitta,
”MoveIt”,
[Online]
Available
at
moveit.ros.org.
[26] S. Marangoz, T. Zaenker, R. Menon, and M. Bennewitz, “Fruit
mapping with shape completion for autonomous crop monitoring,”
in 2022 IEEE 18th International Conference on Automation Science
and Engineering (CASE).
IEEE, 2022, pp. 471–476.
[27] C. Smitt, M. Halstead, T. Zaenker, M. Bennewitz, and C. McCool,
“PATHoBot: A robot for glasshouse crop phenotyping and interven-
tion,” in Proc. of the IEEE Intl. Conf. on Robotics & Automation
(ICRA), 2021.
