International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation 123 (2023) 103457
Available online 30 August 2023
1569-8432/© 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-
nc-nd/4.0/).
Object-Detection from Multi-View remote sensing Images: A case study of 
fruit and flower detection and counting on a central Florida 
strawberry farm 
Caiwang Zheng a,b,1, Tao Liu c,d,1,*, Amr Abd-Elrahman a,b, Vance M. Whitaker a, 
Benjamin Wilkinson b 
a Gulf Coast Research and Education Center, University of Florida, Wimauma, FL 33598, USA 
b School of Forest, Fisheries, and Geomatics Sciences, Gainesville, FL 32603, USA 
c College of Forest Resources and Environmental Science, Michigan Technological University, Houghton, MI 49931, USA 
d Ecosystem Science Center, Michigan Technological University, Houghton, MI 49931, USA   
A R T I C L E I N F O  
Keywords: 
Remote sensing 
Deep learning 
Strawberry fruit detection 
A B S T R A C T  
Object detection in remote sensing images is one of the most critical computer vision tasks for various earth 
observation applications. Previous studies applied object detection models to orthomosaic images generated 
from the SfM (Structure-from-Motion) analysis to perform object detection and counting. However, some small 
objects that are occluded from the vertical view but observable in raw images from the oblique views cannot be 
detected in the orthomosaic image, leading to an occlusion issue that cannot be resolved with the traditional 
orthophoto-based approach. Taking strawberry detection as a case study, the objective of this study is to detect 
small objects directly from multi-view raw images. Firstly, an object-detection model (Faster R-CNN in this 
study) was applied to each raw image to identify strawberry fruit and flower objects. Each unique strawberry 
object on the ground can be detected multiple times in the raw images because images have forward- and side 
overlap. To find the unique objects from the step one detection results, an improved FaceNet model was proposed 
to combine the image and position information to calculate the feature distance between those objects, and a 
clustering algorithm was used to associate the cluster with each unique strawberry using the object distance 
output from the FaceNet model, from which the final position and number of strawberry fruits and flowers were 
obtained. Compared with the orthomosaic image alone, this approach using multi-view images effectively solved 
the occlusion problem and improved overall recognition accuracy of strawberry flowers, unripe fruits, and ripe 
fruits from 76.28% to 96.98%, 71.64% to 99.09%, and 69.81% to 97.17%, respectively, highlighting the po­
tential of multi-view stereovision (MVS) in small object detection.   
1. Introduction 
Object detection has long been considered a common but challenging 
task in remote sensing and computer vision as it requires locating objects 
in a given image and classifying each object (Zou et al., 2019; Jiang 
et al., 2022). Over the past decade, various remote sensing systems have 
been developped for agricultural tasks, such as ground-based platforms, 
low-altitude UAVs (Unmanned aerial vehicles), and multirobot systems 
(integration of ground and aerial platforms) (Weiss et al., 2020; Ju et al., 
2022). These platforms were adopted to collect high-quality and 
redundant image data for agricultural robotics and high-throughput 
phenotyping tasks (Fountas et al., 2020; Clemente et al., 2021). Object 
detection is a fundamental and critical problem for these applications 
(Wesner et al., 2021). 
In recent years, deep learning has been widely used to address the 
object detection problem with its powerful feature learning and 
extraction capabilities for remote sensing applications (Osco et al., 
2021; Han et al., 2022; Wosner et al., 2021; Zhou et al., 2022). The 
mainstream object detectors can be divided into three categories: one- 
stage, two-stage, and transformer-based detectors (Zaidi et al., 2022). 
* Corresponding author. 
E-mail address: taoliu@mtu.edu (T. Liu).   
1 Caiwang Zheng and Tao Liu are equal contributors to this work and designated as co-first authors. 
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect 
International Journal of Applied Earth  
Observation and Geoinformation 
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/jag 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jag.2023.103457 
Received 2 February 2023; Received in revised form 18 April 2023; Accepted 10 August 2023   

International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation 123 (2023) 103457
2
One-stage detectors simplify detection as regression problems and 
directly predict bounding box and class attribute based on the feature 
map. YOLO (You only look once) (Shafiee et al., 2017), SSD (Single Shot 
MultiBox Detector) (Liu et al., 2016), RetinaNet (Lin et al., 2017) and 
EfficientDet (Tan et al., 2020) are representative one-stage object de­
tectors. Two-stage detectors typically generate an arbitrary number of 
region proposals on feature maps, which may contain objects of interest, 
and then perform classification and bounding box refinement on the 
region proposals to localize objects. Commonly used two-stage detectors 
include Faster R-CNN (Girshick (2015)), Cascade-RCNN (Cai and Vas­
concelos (2018)) and DetectoRS (Qiao et al., 2021), etc. 
Transformers were initially used in the natural language processing 
and have recently been introduced to computer vision tasks (Han et al., 
2020). It relies on the self-attention mechanism which achieves global 
receptive field and information exchange between image samples (Liu 
et al., 2021). Some popular transformer-based detectors include DETR 
(DEtection TRansformer) (Carion et al., 2020), ViDT (Vision and 
Detection Transformers) (Song et al., 2021), and etc. Combined with 
high-resolution remote sensing images with sufficient object details, 
these deep learning algorithms have made considerable strides in small 
object detection tasks and achieved promising results even in the face of 
complex unstructured agricultural environments (Han et al., 2022; 
Reedha et al., 2022; Parico and Ahamed (2021); Mostafa et al., 2021). 
Here we take the strawberry farm application as an example. 
Strawberry (Fragaria × ananassa) is one of the most popular berry fruits 
in the world due to its attractive appearance, delicious taste, high 
nutritional value, and wide production (Weng et al., 2020; Zheng et al., 
2021). Since strawberry fruits are highly perishable and sensitive to the 
environment (Savini et al., 2005), timely and effective monitoring of 
fruit growth is vital for growers and marketers to determine optimal 
strategies for strawberry harvesting, transportation, and marketing 
(Abdel-Mawgoud et al., 2010; Zhou et al., 2020). Accurate forecast can 
help reduce waste and avoid situations where overripe fruits are not 
picked due to insufficient labor (Guthman 2017; Chen at al., 2019). 
Deep learning has been widely studied and applied in autonomous ro­
botic harvesting and yield prediction of strawberries (Koirala et al., 
2019; Vasconez et al., 2020). 
Many state-of-the-art frameworks, such as Faster R-CNN, SSD, and 
Mask R-CNN, have been proven effective in various scenarios and 
complex situations of strawberry detection, such as multi-fruit adhesion, 
occlusion of stems and leaves, and changes in the light intensity of the 
environment, especially changes caused by shadows. For example, Lin 
and Chen (2018) compared the performance of R-CNN, Fast R-CNN, and 
Faster R-CNN in identifying outdoor-field grown strawberry flowers of 
various morphological characteristics, such as sheltered, concatenated, 
non-carpel, shadowed, blazed, white/pink bud-shaped, and those in 
blurred images. The average detection rate of the above three models 
were 63.4%, 76.7% and 86.1%, respectively. Lamb and Chuah (2018) 
implemented modifications to the SSD framework and network to ach­
ieve optimal execution speed and detection rate, which can run quickly 
on mobile low-power hardware for strawberry detection with an 
average precision of 84%. Chen et al. (2019) used Faster R-CNN to detect 
and count mature/immature strawberries and flowers for yield predic­
tion from drone images taken from 2 m and 3 m heights. The mean 
average precision (mAP) was 83% at 2 m and 72% at 3 m height for all 
kinds of detected objects. 
Yu et al. (2019) applied Mask R-CNN to generate mask images of ripe 
strawberry fruits and presented a visual localization method to get the 
strawberry picking points from these masks. The average detection 
precision rate was 95.78% and the picking point error was within 1.2 
mm, which is a valuable advancement for fruit picking robots. Zhou 
et al. (2020) improved Faster R-CNN for greenhouse strawberry detec­
tion and plumpness evaluation by using RestNet-50 model as the back­
bone for feature extraction. Transfer learning was used to reduce the 
number of samples required for the training process, reaching a fruit 
extraction accuracy of about 86%. Wang et al. (2022) introduced a DSE- 
YOLO (Detail- Semantics Enhancement You Only Look Once) model to 
detect multi-stage strawberries. The average mAP (mean average pre­
cision) and F1-score were 86.58% and 81.59%, respectively. 
However, most of the studies mentioned above are based on the 
orthomosaic or 2D planar image, which introduces a serious problem as 
explained below. When using remote sensing images for fruit yield 
prediction, the general idea is to process a series of raw images with 
overlap into an orthomosaic image over the entire study area through 
the Structure-from-Motion (SfM) photogrammetry analysis. The deep 
neural networks are then applied on the orthomosaic image to detect, 
evaluate, and count fruits and flowers. The orthomosaic image is 
dominated by pixel information from one angle (usually the angle most 
close to vertical direction) or contains a combination of pixel informa­
tion from different images taken from different directions; therefore, 
some strawberry objects that are occluded by leaves or blurred (due to 
multiple image fusion) in the orthomosaic image could be clearly visible 
in the oblique-angled raw images. As shown in Fig. 1, strawberries 
invisible from the vertical observation pose (t) could be seen from 
oblique angle shots (t-1, t + 1). Compared with two-dimensional images, 
multi-view stereovision (MVS) may help find more strawberry fruits and 
flowers through the analysis of overlapping images taken from multiple 
perspectives The multi-view information has been shown to substan­
tially improve landcover mapping accuracy compared to using only the 
orthomosaic (Liu and Abd-Elrahman (2018a); Liu and Abd-Elrahman 
(2018b); Liu et al., 2019), but there are yet no studies that have 
attempted to use multi-view information for small object detection and 
counting tasks. This study proposes a new method for detecting and 
counting strawberry fruits and flowers directly from raw images based 
on deep learning and SfM technology. Initially, Faster R-CNN was 
applied on each raw image to detect fruits and flowers. An improved 
FaceNet model, and Threshold and DBSCAN clustering algorithms were 
then used to cluster duplicate strawberry objects obtained from raw 
images to get the final position and count of strawberry fruits and 
flowers. 
2. Methodology 
2.1. Experiment workflow 
An outline of the experiment workflow is illustrated as Fig. 2. To 
evaluate the performance of our proposed approach against the con­
ventional approach, two experiments were carried out for comparison: 
1) Benchmark approach. Faster R-CNN was used to identify unripe 
fruits, ripe fruits, and flowers, and then make a count from the ortho­
masic image; 2) Proposed approach. Faster R-CNN was first applied on 
each individual raw image to obtain the location information and image 
patches of strawberry fruits and flowers; then the duplicate strawberries 
detected from multi-view images were projected onto the ground using a 
photogrammetric model to form object (i.e., fruits or flowers) clusters; 
this is followed by applying clustering algorithms to find the final po­
sition and number of unique strawberry fruits and flowers. 
2.2. Image acquisition 
Images used in this study were collected during the 2017–2018 
strawberry growing season at a strawberry farm (located in 27◦45′40″N, 
82◦13′40″W) at the University of Florida’s Gulf Coast Research and 
Education Center (GCREC) in Wimauma, FL, as shown in Fig. 3(a). The 
strawberry field included six adjacent 100 m-long raised beds, which 
were cultivated according to commercial standards. A Vegetation Mo­
bile Mapping System (Fig. 3(b)) introduced by Abd-Elrahman et al. 
(2011, Abd-Elrahman et al. (2016)) was utilized to capture strawberry 
RGB images. The imaging sensor in this study was a Nikon D-300 
consumer-grade digital camera. The images taken by this camera were 
synchronized to a Global Positioning System (GPS) receiver’s time based 
on a custom-built electronic board. The exposure position of each image 
C. Zheng et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation 123 (2023) 103457
3
was determined from Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS)-tra­
jectory acquired by a dual-frequency Topcon HiperLite Plus GNSS 
receiver. This system was towed by a tractor and was placed approxi­
mately 3.5 m above the ground. The platform acquired images with 
more than 70% overlap and 60% sidelap. Several reliable ground control 
points (GCPs) with centimeter-level accuracy (~2cm) were evenly 
established and distributed in the field as described by Guan et al. 
(2020) using a total station and GNSS receivers. 
2.3. Orthomosaic and orthorectified images construction from SfM 
analysis 
SfM, combined with photogrammetry, is a widely used technology 
that can be used to estimate the three-dimensional structure of an object 
or scene based on a series of sequential overlapping two-dimensional 
images (Fonstad et al., 2013). The GCPs established in the field were 
visible in the image and used for the SfM image processing. The process 
starts with the detection of tie points, image coordinate locations of 
features identifiable in multiple images. This is usually achieved using a 
proprietary feature-based image matching algorithm similar to the scale 
invariant feature transform (SIFT) method (Lowe (1987)). Then, a 
bundle-block adjustment (Triggs et al., 2000) is performed using these 
tie points and GCPs to compute the exterior orientation parameters 
(position and angular orientation) of each camera exposure. Next, a 
dense 3D point cloud is created over the whole scene which may be used 
to derive a 3D terrain surface raster or mesh. Using the estimated camera 
poses and parameters along with the 3D model, pixel information for a 
synthesized orthomosaic covering the entire area is computed, simu­
lating orthographic projection at some nominal scale and thus removing 
image-displacing effects of camera tilt and terrain relief. In this study, an 
RGB orthomosaic image with spatial resolution of 1 mm was created and 
used for the strawberry detection task, shown in Fig. 2. This procedure 
was implemented using the Agisoft Metashape software. 
For a detected strawberry object in the raw image, the relationship 
between the pixel coordinates of the center point position and its real 
geographic coordinates is shown as Equation (1), which is derived from 
collinearity equations and has been used in Liu and Abd-Elrahman 
(2018a); Liu and Abd-Elrahman (2018b) for multi-view object extrac­
tion for mapping task. Based on Eq (1), the calculation of the real-world 
coordinates of a given point can theoretically be achieved by the multi- 
image ray intersection method with known internal and exterior ele­
ments of multiple cameras as observations (Zhang and Elaksher (2012); 
Yang et al., 2021). In our study, we used the Agisoft Metashape Python 
API to project the image coordinates of the object on the raw image in 
terms of row and column number to its position in the ground coordinate 
system in terms of (X, Y, Z). This process comprises finding the inter­
section of a ray originating from the camera projection center passing 
through the object’s image location on the raw image with the 3D model 
surface generated by the dense 3D point cloud. Then, the (X, Y, Z) po­
sitions obtained here are used as feature inputs for the FaceNet model as 
discussed in Section 2.5. 
⎧
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎨
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎩
xp = (x0 −f r11(X −X0) + r12(Y −Y0) + r13(Z −Z0)
r13(X −X0) + r23(Y −Y0) + r33(Z −Z0))/p
yp = H −(y0 −f r21(X −X0) + r22(Y −Y0) + r23(Z −Z0)
r13(X −X0) + r23(Y −Y0) + r33(Z −Z0))/p
(1) 
In Eq (1), xp, yp are the column and row number of a given point 
referenced to the top left corner of the raw image; X, Y, Z represents the 
point coordinates in the World Coordinate System (WGS 84/UTM zone 
17 N in this study); f is the focal length of camera lens in millimeters; x0, 
y0 are the principal point coordinates in millimeters; p is the pixel pitch 
in millimeters; H are the row dimensions of the image; X0, Y0, Z0 rep­
resents the position of the camera in the World Coordinate System; rij 
represents the ith and jth element of rotation matrix. The X0, Y0, Z0 co­
ordinates, and R rotation matrix are camera exterior orientation pa­
rameters outputted from the bundle adjustment. 
Fig. 1. Multi-view observation of strawberry fruits from ground-based images.  
C. Zheng et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation 123 (2023) 103457
4
2.4. Faster R-CNN 
2.4.1. Model description 
Faster R-CNN is an integrated convolutional object detection 
framework proposed by Ren et al. (2015). Compared with Fast R-CNN, it 
replaced the selective search method as the Region Proposal Network 
(RPN) to overcome the running time bottleneck in the task of generating 
proposals. The Faster R-CNN detection framework architecture first 
passes a color (usually RGB) image through a pre-trained CNN using 
ImageNet dataset to obtain a convolutional feature map. The image 
feature extraction backbone used in this study is ResNet-50. Then it can 
be divided into two parts. The first part is to use the RPN to produce 
high-quality rectangular regions (bounding boxes) that could contain 
the object(s) of interest. The second part uses Fast R-CNN as classifier to 
determine if the proposals generated from RPN belong to an object class 
of interest. The classifier can be 2 class or N class. In this work, we 
Fig. 2. Workflow of strawberry detection from multi-view high-resolution imagery.  
C. Zheng et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation 123 (2023) 103457
5
adopted a four-class scheme composed of: flowers, unripe strawberry 
fruits, ripe fruits, and background. 
2.4.2. Dataset and evaluation 
In the training phase of the Faster R-CNN implementation, we per­
formed fine-tuning and prepared several manually labelled (annotated) 
bounding box samples for strawberry flowers, ripe and unripe fruits, 
respectively. The numbers of training and test images are shown in 
Table 1. 
The intersection-over-union (IoU) overlap with manually annotated 
bounding box was used to evaluate the correctness of detected objects, 
which was defined as follows: 
IoU = AO
AU
(2)  
where AO indicates the overlap area between the predicted bounding 
box and manually annotated bounding box, and AU is the union area of 
the predicted and manually annotated bounding boxes. A detected ob­
ject with IOU higher than a threshold value was called as a true positive 
(TP). Otherwise, it was considered as a false positive (FP) as it did not 
match with any ground truth bounding box. If one manually annotated 
case was missed, a false negative (FP) was determined. The IOU 
threshold value was set as 0.5 in this study. 
To evaluate the performance of Faster R-CNN, the precision and 
recall were used, which were calculated as follows: 
⎧
⎪
⎪
⎨
⎪
⎪
⎩
precision =
TP
TP + FP
Recall =
TP
TP + FN
(3)  
2.5. FaceNet 
2.5.1. FaceNet model description 
FaceNet is a unified framework proposed by Schroff et al. in 2015 to 
solve tasks such as face recognition, verification, and clustering. It maps 
each face image to a Euclidean space where the distance between feature 
descriptors of images reflects the face similarity. Compared with pre­
vious techniques, this model trained a deep convolution network (CNN) 
directly to optimize the embedding itself instead of using an interme­
diate bottleneck layer. In the training process, face patches are imported 
to the CNN network and each patch includes three images: anchor, 
positive, and negative. Considering the small training samples, the CNN 
feature extraction backbone used in this study is ResNet-34 as shown in 
Fig. 5, which was also adopted in the work of Schroff et al. 2015. The 
anchor and positive images belong to the same identity while the 
negative image is a different identity (see Fig. 4). Thus, a triplet loss (L) 
was employed and minimized, and it aims to train the embedding model 
that makes the squared distance between all faces, regardless of imaging 
conditions, of the same identity is small, while the distance between 
images of different identities is large. The triplet loss can be calculated as 
following formulas: 
L =
∑
N
i=0
[⃦⃦
f(xa
i ) −f(xp
i )⃦⃦
2
2−⃦⃦
f(xa
i ) −f(xn
i )⃦⃦
2
2+α
]
(4)  
here, f(x) is an embedding model that maps an image × into a feature 
space Rd. The length of the output feature vector is set as 128. xi
a, xi
p, and 
xi
n represent the anchor, positive and negative image of the ith patch, 
respectively; N is the number of image patch; α represents the margin 
between positive and negative pairs. 
2.5.2. Improved FaceNet 
To utilize multi-view observations to identify potential strawberries 
occluded by leaves, this study applied Faster R-CNN to all raw images for 
strawberry detection. The orthomosaic image was used as a benchmark 
for comparison. Due to the overlap between the raw images, many 
duplicate strawberries corresponding to one cluster (or one strawberry 
identity) were detected from different views, as shown in Fig. 6.. It is 
necessary to cluster these strawberry objects to obtain the final number, 
location, and distribution of strawberries. Before the clustering process, 
we improved the FaceNet model to directly learn a mapping from images 
and geographical position of strawberry objects to a compact Euclidean 
space. As shown in Fig. 5, two models were presented to provide each 
strawberry object a feature vectorial representation, known as embed­
ding: 1) Model-1: according to the bounding box information provided 
by Faster R-CNN, a cropped image of a detected strawberry object was 
Fig. 3. The study site (a) and ground-based platform (b), which is pulled by a tractor carrying: a. camera trigger box hardware; b. computer; c. timing GPS; d. GNSS 
navigation system; e. Nikon D300 RGB camera. 
Table 1 
Faster R-CNN training samples preparation.   
Training 
Test 
Number of Images 
2058 
357 
Size 
536 × 712  
C. Zheng et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation 123 (2023) 103457
6
imported to the FaceNet model. Similar to the face verification discussed 
in section 2.5.1, images of detected objects were mapped to feature 
vectors and the distance between image-derived vectors were used to 
assess if they belong to the same strawberry identity based on a given 
threshold; 2) Model-2: in addition to the images, the position informa­
tion (X, Y, Z) of image center were also used in the output feature vector 
of the deep architecture. 
2.5.3. Labeled strawberry dataset 
To train the FaceNet model, we prepared a dataset of manually 
labeled images for strawberry flowers, unripe and ripe fruits, respec­
tively. In this study, Faster R-CNN was applied on 456 raw images and 
detected 4363 objects, which were manually corrected and interpreted, 
and corresponded to 1086 unique strawberry identities. The image 
samples of these detected objects were cropped and saved according to 
the bounding box. Each strawberry object was marked with the 
following attributes: X, Y, Z, Sample_ID, Strawberry_ID, True_Class, 
IF_Visible, and Photo_ID. Here, X, Y and Z are the geographic coordinates 
of the centroid point of the bounding box. Sample_ID is the image sample 
name. Strawberry_ID represents which strawberry identity it belongs to. 
True_Class is the sample class (flower, unripe fruit, ripe fruit). IF_Visible 
indicates if this strawberry object is visible in the orthomasic image, 
where 1 represents True, and 0 represents False. Photo_ID represents the 
raw image name from which it was detected. Due to the difficulty of 
ground-truth sample preparation, we selected 995 samples of 250 
strawberry identities in a small area for FaceNet model training and set 
aside 500 samples for testing. Then, the FaceNet model and the clus­
tering process was implemented on all 4363 samples to calculate the 
number of strawberry objects. Examples of strawberry sample data are 
shown in Fig. 7. 
2.5.4. FaceNet model performance evaluation 
Given a pair of two strawberry objects (i, j), the calculated distance D 
(xi, xj) using the FaceNet model was compared with a given squared L2 
distance threshold d. Then we can determine a binary classification of 
same and different. All strawberry pairs (i, j) of the same identity are 
denoted with ρsame while the pairs of different identities were denoted 
with ρdif. 
The set of true positive (TP) represents these strawberry pairs (i, j) 
correctly classified as same according to the threshold d, which is defined 
as follows: 
TP(d) =
{(
i, j) ∈ρsame, with D(xi, xj)⩽d
}
(5) 
The set of false positive (FP) represents those pairs which were falsely 
classified as same at the threshold d. FP(d) is defined as: 
FP(d) =
{(
i, j) ∈ρdif , with D(xi, xj)⩽d
}
(6) 
Similarly, we define the set of true negative (TN) and false negative 
(FN) as: 
{ TN(d) =
{(
i, j) ∈ρdif , with D(xi, xj) > d
}
FN(d) =
{(
i, j) ∈ρsame, with D(xi, xj) > d
}
(7)  
where TN and FN are the pairs (i, j) that were correctly and falsely 
classified as different at the threshold d, respectively. 
To assess the FaceNet model performance, the validate rate VAL(d), 
false accept rate FAR(d) and accuracy (d) based on the threshold given 
by the model are defined as: 
⎧
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎨
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎩
VAL(d) = TP(d)
ρsame
, FAR(d) = FP(d)
ρdif
AccuracyFaceNet =
TP(d) + TN(d)
TP(d) + TN(d) + FP(d) + FN(d)
(8)  
Table 2 
Faster R-CNN performance on the orthomosaic image.  
Category 
Manually Count 
Faster 
R-CNN count (TP þ FP) 
TP 
TP Rate 
FP 
FP Rate 
FN 
FN Rate 
P 
R 
Flower 
346 
328 
313  
90.5% 
15  
4.3% 
33  
9.5%  
95.4%  
90.5% 
Unripe Fruit 
417 
394 
374  
89.7% 
20  
4.8% 
43  
10.3%  
94.9%  
89.7% 
Ripe Fruit 
78 
74 
71  
91.0% 
3  
3.8% 
7  
8.97%  
95.9%  
91.0% 
All 
841 
796 
758  
90.1% 
38  
4.5% 
83  
9.87%  
95.2%  
90.1%  
Fig. 4. The anchor and positive image pair belong to the same identity while the anchor and negative image are from different identities. The triplet loss in FaceNet 
mapping aims to minimize the distance between the anchor and positive and maximize the distance between the anchor and negative image. The length of the black 
arrow indicates the distance. 
C. Zheng et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation 123 (2023) 103457
7
2.6. Strawberry clustering 
2.6.1. Threshold clustering 
The threshold clustering approach was used in the work of Schroff 
et al. (2015) to achieve face clustering. It calculates the Euclidean dis­
tance between a pair of faces based on the FaceNet embedding feature 
vectors. When the distance between feature vectors is smaller than a 
given threshold, the strawberry instances are assigned to the same 
cluster. Thus, the embedding of a new instance is compared with already 
clustered strawberry instances. If the distance between a new strawberry 
fruit or flower instance with its nearest neighbor already in a cluster set 
is less than a specified threshold, it will be added to the existing cluster. 
Otherwise, it is considered a new cluster. The performance of this 
clustering algorithm heavily relies on the selection of the threshold. A 
low threshold will result in many false negatives: instances with a dis­
tance higher than the threshold but belong to the same strawberry 
identity. High threshold will cause many false positives: instances hav­
ing a distance lower than the threshold but coming from different 
strawberry identities. In our experiment, we used the optimal threshold 
with highest validation accuracy in the improved FaceNet training 
process as the distance criterion. Each detected strawberry instance was 
evaluated and clustered based on the improved FaceNet embedding. 
2.6.2. Density based spatial clustering of applications with noise (DBSCAN) 
DBSCAN is a density-based data clustering algorithm proposed by 
Ester et al. (1996). DBSCAN a non-parametric parametric method that 
doesn’t need to specify the exact number of clusters in advance (Khan 
et al., 2014). It can cluster data of arbitrary shapes and is also robust in 
the presence of noise. The DBSCAN algorithm performs clustering based 
on two input parameters: 1) eps specifies the maximum neighborhood 
distance threshold (radius) for a given point, 2) minpts denotes the 
minimum number of points lying in the radius eps of one point to form a 
Fig. 5. Model structure. (a) FaceNet: this network imports an image batch to a deep CNN followed by L2 normalization to get an embedding feature vector, which 
was used in the triplet loss training; (b) Improved FaceNet: it combines the image and positional information to obtain an embedding feature vector for each 
strawberry object. The backbone network used in this study was ResNet-34; (c) ResNet-34 architecture. 
C. Zheng et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation 123 (2023) 103457
8
Fig. 6. A set of strawberry clusters shown in the orthomosaic image at two zoom scales (a-b). One unique strawberry cluster (or identity) contains several centroid 
points of bounding boxes detected from multi-view raw images using Faster R-CNN model. The yellow points represent strawberry flowers. The cyan points and dark 
pink points represent strawberry unripe and ripe fruits, respectively. Several cases show up in (b) where objects are obscured by leaves on orthomosaic but are 
detected on multi-view raw images. (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.) 
Fig. 7. Strawberry samples detected by Faster R-CNN. (a) Multi-view observations of one strawberry identity. The central image came from the orthomosaic image, 
and the other images were from raw images; (b) Samples obtained from raw images. Each row represents one strawberry identity. 
C. Zheng et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation 123 (2023) 103457
9
cluster. According to the two parameters, several concepts were defined:  
• eps-neighborhood: for any point p ∈D, the eps-neighborhood (Neps) 
denotes the total number of points whose distance from p is less than 
or equal to eps. D represents the database of points. 
Neps = {q ∈D, withdist(p, q)⩽eps}
(9)    
• Core points: If the eps-neighborhood of a point p contains more than 
minpts points, it is considered as core point. The core point is defined 
as: 
Neps(p) > minpts
(10)    
• Border points: A point that is lying at the border of a core point’s eps 
neighborhood is called as border point.  
• Noise points: If a point does not belong to any cluster, it is treated as a 
noise point.  
• A point q is said to be directly density reachable from a point p if q ∈
Neps and p is a core point.  
• If there is a sequence of points q1…qn, q1 = p, qn = q, such that qi+1 is 
direct density-reachable from qi, the point q is considered density 
reachable from p.  
• A point p is density-connected to another point q if there is one core 
point o such that p and q are both density reachable from o. 
DBSCAN checks the eps-neighborhood of each point in the point 
database. If Neps of a point p contains at least minpts points, p is a core 
point and all the points of Neps(p) are created as a new cluster X. Then, 
for each point q ∈Neps, the eps-neighborhood will be checked. If q is also a 
core point, all the points of Neps(q) which are not already assigned will be 
added to the cluster X. This procedure continues until no new point can 
be added to the cluster X. 
This study applied the threshold clustering and DBSCAN algorithms 
on the improved FaceNet embedding of duplicated strawberry objects to 
perform clustering. Beside the distance principle, another criterion is 
that if two objects have the same Photo_ID, they will not be clustered to 
the same group. This is based on the hypothesis that all the detected 
objects from the same image are unique. 
2.6.3. Clustering evaluation 
To evaluate the performance of two clustering algorithms, the pair­
wise F-measure defined by Bijl (2018) is used in our experiments. 
Assuming two sets of labels: LTrue and LCluster. The set LTrue = {t1, t2, …, tn} 
contains the actual identity labels for each detected strawberry object. 
Set LCluster = {c1, c2, …, cn} is the output label of the clustering algorithm 
for each strawberry object. 
The set of true positives (TPCluster) consists of strawberry object pairs 
(i, j) that are correctly clustered to the same cluster, which is defined as: 
TPCluster =
{(
i, j), where ci = cj and ti = tj
}
(11) 
The set of false positives (FPCluster) consists of strawberry object pairs 
(i, j) that are incorrectly clustered to the same cluster, which is defined 
as: 
FPCluster =
{(
i, j), where ci = cj and ti ∕=tj
}
(12) 
The set of true negative (TNCluster) consists of strawberry object pairs 
(i, j) that are correctly clustered to different clusters, which is defined as: 
TNCluster =
{(
i, j), where ci ∕=cj and ti ∕=tj
}
(13) 
The set of false negatives (FNCluster) consists of strawberry object pairs 
(i, j) that are incorrectly clustered to different clusters, which is defined 
as: 
FNCluster =
{(
i, j), where ci ∕=cj and ti = tj
}
(14) 
The pairwise precision (PrecisionCluster) is defined as the proportion of 
pairs that are correctly clustered to the same cluster (TPCluster) over all 
pairs that were clustered to the same cluster by the cluster algorithm 
(TPCluster + FPCluster). Therefore, the PrecisionCluster is defined as: 
PrecisionCluster =
TPCluster
TPCluster + FPCluster
(15) 
Similarly, the pairwise recall (RecallCluster) the proportion of pairs 
that are correctly clustered to the same cluster (TPCluster) over all pairs 
that are actually of the same cluster (TPCluster + FNCluster). Therefore, the 
pairwise recall is given by: 
RecallCluster =
TPCluster
TPCluster + FNCluster
(16) 
Finally, the F-measure can be defined as: 
F = 2 PrecisionCluster⋅RecallCluster
PrecisionCluster + RecallCluster
(17)  
2.7. Overall performance evaluation 
With the number of strawberries manually counted from raw images 
as reference, the overall strawberry detection accuracy of different 
models including: 1) Faster R-CNN applied in the orthomosaic image, 2) 
Faster R-CNN, FaceNet and Threshold Clustering, and 3) Faster R-CNN, 
FaceNet and DBSCAN Clustering, can be defined as follows: 
Overall Accuary = 1 −⃒⃒
NR −Np⃒⃒
NR
(18) 
In Eq (18), NR is the reference number of unique strawberries, which 
manually counted in this study by visual interpretation of multi-view 
raw images; Np is the predicted number of strawberries detected from 
the above three models. 
3. Results 
All our experiments were implemented under the deep learning 
framework of Pytorch 1.11, with an Nvidia TITANX (Pascal generation) 
for GPU acceleration. The strawberry detection experiments from the 
orthomosaic image and multi-view raw images were carried out sepa­
rately, and the results are as follows: 
3.1. Orthomosaic image analysis 
A total number of 236 raw images (2848 × 4288 pixels) were pro­
cessed using the Agisoft software to generate one orthomosaic image 
over the whole field. Faster R-CNN was then implemented on the 
orthomosaic image to detect flowers, unripe fruits, and ripe fruits. Fig. 8 
shows strawberry flower and fruit detection examples from the ortho­
mosaic image. The detection performance of Faster R-CNN is summa­
rized in Table 1. The precision and recall rate are 95.4% and 90.5% for 
flowers, 94.9% and 89.7% for unripe fruits, and 95.9% and 91.0% for 
ripe fruits, respectively. The average precision and recall rate for all 
three types of strawberry objects were 95.2% and 90.1%, respectively. 
The detection accuracy of unripe fruits was lower than that of ripe fruits 
and flowers, possibly due to the similar color of the unripe fruit to the 
leaves. 
3.2. Multi-view image analysis 
3.2.1. FaceNet mapping 
The classification (same or different) was performed on the prepared 
strawberry dataset using the FaceNet model as discussed in Section 
2.5.3. Fig. 9 illustrates the training process of the FaceNet model. After 
one hundred epochs, the training and validation classification accuracy 
can reach about 85.8% and 86.1% using Model-1, 99.62% and 99.1% 
C. Zheng et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation 123 (2023) 103457
10
using Model-2, respectively. Table 3 shows the FaceNet model perfor­
mance on the testing set of strawberry flowers, unripe and ripe fruits. 
Compared with Model-1, the Model-2 increased the VAL of flowers from 
84.63% to 98.36%, that of unripe fruits from 83.75% to 95.29%, and 
that of ripe fruits from 86.8% to 99.68%, respectively. Correspondingly, 
the Model-2 decreased the FAR of flowers from 10.31% to 1.11%, that of 
unripe fruits from 9.53% to 1.08%, and that of ripe fruits from 8.42% to 
0.25%, respectively. The addition of geographic information substan­
tially improved the model performance in determining whether a pair of 
detected strawberry objects belong to the same identity or not. The re­
sults of FaceNet on ripe fruit are slightly better than the other two types 
of objects, probably because ripe strawberries have richer color and 
shape information. 
Fig. 8. Faster R-CNN detection examples form the orthomosaic image.  
Fig. 9. Accuracy curve for two models during the training process.  
C. Zheng et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation 123 (2023) 103457
11
3.2.2. Clustering 
The optimal FaceNet model during the training process was applied 
on all detected duplicate strawberry samples to obtain the embedding 
feature vectors. Then, we used two methods to cluster strawberries 
based on these features: threshold clustering and DBSCAN algorithm. 
Table 4 summarizes the clustering performance of the two algorithms. 
For threshold clustering, the F-measure values for flowers, unripe fruits, 
and ripe fruits are 0.853, 0.870, and 0.891, respectively. The corre­
sponding F-measure values of DBSCAN algorithm are 0.860, 0.869 and 
0.904, respectively. The difference between predicted and known clus­
ters is not obvious, and the precision and recall metrics fluctuate be­
tween 0.791 and 0.973. Fig. 10 shows the variation curve of F-measure 
values and the number of strawberry clusters with different distance 
threshold settings (d in Section 2.5.4). With increasing the distance, 
strawberries are clustered together. Increasing the distance makes less 
and large clusters. As shown in Fig. 10 (a-e), there was a narrow range of 
distance threshold values which achieved the highest F-measure values 
and optimal number of strawberry clusters. Both algorithms were able to 
detect the number of clusters close to the ground truth with comparable 
accuracy (Table 4), but the DBSCAN algorithm appeared to be slightly 
more effective and robust than threshold clustering. 
Table 5 shows the comparison results of the number of strawberry 
objects counted by human visual interpretation and deep learning from 
the orthomosaic image and raw images. The occlusion rate is defined as 
the ratio of the number of strawberry objects invisible in the orthomo­
saic image to the number of strawberries counted from raw images. In 
this experiment, the occlusion rate was about 19.53%, 24.18%, and 
26.42% for strawberry flowers, unripe fruits, and ripe fruits, respec­
tively. The average occlusion rate was about 22.56%. Some occlusion 
examples are shown as Fig. 11. Based on Table 5, the FaceNet clustering 
algorithms based on the raw images effectively solved the occlusion 
problem and improved the overall recognition accuracy of strawberry 
flowers, unripe fruits, and ripe fruits from 76.28% to 96.98%, 71.64% to 
99.09%, and 69.81% to 97.17% respectively, compared with the results 
obtained from the orthomosaic image using Faster R-CNN only. 
4. Discussion 
Counting and locating flowers and fruits in the strawberry field from 
remote sensing images is traditionally conducted by applying deep 
learning networks (such as Faster R-CNN and YOLO series) on an 
orthomosaic image of the whole study area generated by SfM analysis 
for object detection. This method has been proven effective in many 
previous studies (Lin and Chen (2018); Lamb and Chuah (2018); Chen 
et al., 2019). However, some fruits that are obscured by leaves but 
observable in raw images could be lost in the orthomosaic image due to 
photogrammetric processes such as pixel merging and blending. As 
shown in Table 2, although Faster R-CNN exhibits high detection rates 
(~90.1%) in the orthomosaic image, this accuracy is still only around 
73.3% based on the actual number of strawberries on the ground. 
Therefore, the occlusion issue is the main reason affecting the recogni­
tion accuracy rather than the deep learning object detection model itself. 
This study aims to develop a novel method to make full use of the in­
formation in the multi-view raw images acquired by a ground-based 
platform to solve the occlusion problem. 
4.1. General interpretation 
Our proposed method mainly consists of three steps: 1) strawberry 
object detection from raw images using Faster R-CNN; 2) clustering 
feature extraction using FaceNet; 3) duplicate strawberry detection 
removal using clustering algorithm. We tested the off-the-shelf algo­
rithms for step 1, 2 and 3, and developed alternative customized algo­
rithms to carry out step 2. 
In step 1, we adopted a commonly used deep learning model named 
Faster R-CNN for object detection. It showed good performance in both 
orthomosaic and multi-view image (see Table 3 and 6). However, with 
the overall occlusion rate up to 22.56%, the traditional approach based 
on orthomosaic image won’t obtain comparable accuracy compared to 
the proposed approach even if it can detect all the visible objects on the 
orthomosaic image. Since the proposed approach is based on the object 
detection results by Faster R-CNN, poor detection of objects will 
certainly damage the performance of the proposed approach. Table 6 
indicates that occlusion is the key factor preventing the traditional 
approach from catching up with the proposed approach and Faster R- 
CNN is not a bottleneck due to its good performance for object detection 
task. 
In step 2, the off-the-shelf algorithm FaceNet was used to learn 
feature embeddings that will be used in step 3 for clustering task. 
Alternatively, we also developed a new feature learning neural network 
based on FaceNet by adding geographic location information of straw­
berry objects (see Fig. 5). Our experiment shows by adding geographic 
location information, the feature learning algorithm achieved a sub­
stantially high improvement to separate objects (e.g., 1.11% vs 10.31% 
FAR for flowers, 9.53% vs 1.08% FAR for unripe fruits in Table 3). The 
embedding generated from step 2 will be directly used in step 3 to 
discriminate unique objects among the duplicate objects which were 
generated from step 1 from multi-view raw images; therefore, a robust 
embedding extractor is important to achieve good clustering perfor­
mance in step 3. 
In step 3, we tested two clustering algorithms including threshold 
and DBSCAN to find the unique objects. In Fig. 10 (a-e), we analyzed the 
impact of the threshold parameter on the performance of the thresh­
olding clustering algorithm. Our results indicate that there is a narrow 
range of distance threshold values that can achieve the highest F-mea­
sure scores and optimal number of strawberry clusters. The F-measure 
scores for the threshold clustering algorithm were 0.853, 0.870, and 
0.891 for flowers, unripe fruits, and ripe fruits, respectively. For the 
DBSCAN algorithm, the corresponding F-measure scores were 0.860, 
Table 3 
Model performance of the testing set of strawberry flowers, unripe and ripe 
fruits.  
Category 
FaceNet Model 
VAL 
FAR 
Flowers 
Model-1  
84.63%  
10.31% 
Model-2  
98.36%  
1.11% 
Unripe Fruits 
Model-1  
83.75%  
9.53% 
Model-2  
95.29%  
1.08% 
Ripe Fruits 
Model-1  
86.8%  
8.42% 
Model-2  
99.68%  
0.25%  
Table 4 
Performance of two clustering algorithms on the strawberry flowers, unripe and ripe fruits.  
Target 
Clustering method 
Number of predicted clusters 
Number of known clusters 
PrecisionCluster 
RecallCluster 
F-measure 
Flowers 
Threshold clustering 
417 
430  
0.872  
0.837  
0.853 
DBSCAN 
414  
0.791  
0.943  
0.860 
Unripe fruits 
Threshold clustering 
585 
550  
0.839  
0.905  
0.870 
DBSCAN 
555  
0.860  
0.879  
0.869 
Ripe fruits 
Threshold clustering 
109 
106  
0.821  
0.973  
0.891 
DBSCAN 
109  
0.850  
0.965  
0.904  
C. Zheng et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation 123 (2023) 103457
12
0.869, and 0.904, respectively. Both algorithms were able to detect the 
number of clusters close to the ground truth with comparable accuracy 
(Table 4), but the DBSCAN algorithm appeared to be slightly more 
effective and robust than threshold clustering. It’s worth noting that the 
accuracy of the clustering outputs could be influenced by several factors, 
including the choice of clustering algorithm, the quality of feature 
embedding, and the accuracy of object detection. Nevertheless, our 
study suggests that robust algorithms are available to achieve good 
performance for each task, and combining these algorithms can lead to 
good performance for the final results. 
4.2. Limitations and future work 
This study has yet to test the performance of our method during a 
growing stage when almost all the strawberries become mature, and the 
strawberry farm is crowded with strawberries growing together. The 
proposed method involves object detection, feature learning and clus­
tering steps, indicating that it may be challenging to achieve reliable 
recognition results for such a scenario. To enhance the method’s per­
formance, other advanced deep learning object detection models such as 
YOLO and SSD can be explored, and a unified model integrating FaceNet 
feature mapping and clustering procedures could be developed in the 
future. In addition, the improvement of image data quality may 
contribute to the reliable model performance of our approach. The study 
hypothesizes that there could be an optimal oblique viewing angle for 
maximizing the clear view of occluded strawberries without losing 
information from the vertical angle. Future research will focus on 
designing a more optimized imaging platform that can capture images 
from multiple views and generate detailed 3D reconstructions of 
strawberry objects. The overlap rate setting will also impact the number 
of multi-angle observations for object detection, with a larger overlap 
generating more information but increasing algorithm complexity and 
model robustness challenges. Investigating the effect of side/front 
overlap is another potential direction for future research. Despite its 
limitations, this study is the first attempt to directly extract information 
about small objects like strawberry fruits and flowers from raw multi- 
view images. 
5. Conclusion 
Taking strawberry detection as a case study, we proposed a new 
method to detect small objects directly from the raw images containing 
multi-view information with comprehensive use of deep learning and 
SfM technologies. This differs from traditional methods that rely on 
object detection on orthomosaic images and are not well-suited to deal 
with occluded objects. The result shows the raw images helped us find 
19.53%, 24.18%, and 26.42% more flowers, unripe fruits, and ripe fruits 
respectively than the orthomosaic image. Correspondingly, the use of 
FaceNet clustering algorithms in raw images effectively solves the oc­
clusion problem and increased the overall recognition accuracy from 
76.28% to 96.98%, 71.64% to 99.09%, and 69.81% to 97.17% for those 
three types of strawberry objects, in contrast to using only Faster R-CNN 
Fig. 10. The variation curve of F-measure values and strawberry clusters with the distance threshold.  
Table 5 
Comparison of the number of strawberries detected from the orthomosaic image and raw images using human visual interpretation and deep learning technology, 
respectively.  
Category 
Manually counted 
Counted by deep learning 
From orthomosaic image 
From raw images 
Occlusion rate 
From orthomosaic image 
From raw images 
DBSCAN 
Threshold clustering 
Flowers 
346 
430  
19.53% 
328 
414 
417 
Unripe Fruits 
417 
550  
24.18% 
394 
555 
585 
Ripe Fruits 
78 
106  
26.42% 
74 
109 
109 
All 
841 
1086  
22.56% 
796 
1078 
1111  
C. Zheng et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation 123 (2023) 103457
13
on the orthomosaic image. This study demonstrates that multi-view 
object detection has the potential to outperform previous approaches 
in detecting occluded objects from remote sensing images. 
CRediT authorship contribution statement 
Caiwang Zheng: Methodology, Software, Writing – original draft, 
Formal analysis, Visualization, Writing – review & editing. Tao Liu: 
Conceptualization, Methodology, Software, Writing – review & editing, 
Supervision. Amr Abd-Elrahman: Conceptualization, Supervision, 
Project administration. Vance M. Whitaker: Supervision, Writing – 
review & editing. Benjamin Wilkinson: Supervision, Writing – review 
& editing. 
Declaration of Competing Interest 
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial 
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence 
the work reported in this paper. 
Data availability 
Data will be made available on request. 
Acknowledgments 
The authors would like to acknowledge the Michigan Technological 
University to support this research with start up fund (grant ID D97314). 
Besides, the authors also acknowledge the Gulf Coast Research and 
Education field technical support staff and strawberry breeding program 
staff for their efforts in developing the data acquisition platform and 
field trials. 
References 
Abdel-Mawgoud, A.M.R., Tantawy, A.S., El-Nemr, M.A., Sassine, Y.N., 2010. Growth and 
yield responses of strawberry plants to chitosan application. Eur. J. Sci. Res. 39, 
170–177. 
Abd-Elrahman, A., Pande-Chhetri, R., Vallad, G., 2011. Design and development of a 
multi-purpose low-cost hyperspectral imaging system. Remote Sens. 3, 570–586. 
Abd-Elrahman, A., Sassi, N., Wilkinson, B., Dewitt, B., 2016. Georeferencing of mobile 
ground-based hyperspectral digital single-lens reflex imagery. J. Appl. Remote Sens. 
10, 14002. 
Cai, Z., Vasconcelos, N., 2018. Cascade r-cnn: Delving into high quality object detection, 
in. In: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern 
Recognition, pp. 6154–6162. 
Carion, N., Massa, F., Synnaeve, G., Usunier, N., Kirillov, A., Zagoruyko, S., 2020. End-to- 
end object detection with transformers, in: Computer Vision–ECCV 2020: 16th 
European Conference, Glasgow, UK, August 23–28, 2020, Proceedings, Part I 16. 
Springer, pp. 213–229. 
Chen, Y., Lee, W.S., Gan, H., Peres, N., Fraisse, C., Zhang, Y., He, Y., 2019. Strawberry 
yield prediction based on a deep neural network using high-resolution aerial 
orthoimages. Remote Sens. 11, 1584. 
Clemente, A.A., Maciel, G.M., Siquieroli, A.C.S., de Araujo Gallis, R.B., Pereira, L.M., 
Duarte, J.G., 2021. High-throughput phenotyping to detect anthocyanins, 
chlorophylls, and carotenoids in red lettuce germplasm. Int. J. Appl. Earth Obs. 
Geoinf. 103, 102533. 
Ester, M., Kriegel, H.-P., Sander, J., Xu, X., 1996. A density-based algorithm for 
discovering clusters in large spatial databases with noise., in: Kdd. pp. 226–231. 
Fonstad, M.A., Dietrich, J.T., Courville, B.C., Jensen, J.L., Carbonneau, P.E., 2013. 
Topographic structure from motion: A new development in photogrammetric 
measurement. Earth Surf. Process. Landforms 38, 421–430. 
Fountas, S., Mylonas, N., Malounas, I., Rodias, E., Hellmann Santos, C., Pekkeriet, E., 
2020. Agricultural robotics for field operations. Sensors 20, 2672. 
Girshick, R., 2015. Fast r-cnn, in. In: Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on 
Computer Vision, pp. 1440–1448. 
Fig. 11. Examples of strawberries obscured by leaves in the orthomosaic image and but visible in raw images: flowers with red bounding boxes, unripe fruits with 
yellow bounding boxes, and ripe fruits with blue bounding boxes. Nine samples are displayed. For each sample, the unlabeled image on the left is cropped from the 
orthomosaic image, and the right image is from raw images. (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web 
version of this article.) 
Table 6 
The overall accuracy of deep learning models applied in the orthomosaic image 
and raw images.   
From orthomosaic image 
From raw images 
DBSCAN 
Threshold clustering 
Flowers  
76.28%  
96.28%  
96.98% 
Unripe Fruits  
71.64%  
99.09%  
93.64% 
Ripe Fruits  
69.81%  
97.17%  
97.17% 
All  
73.30%  
99.26%  
97.70%  
C. Zheng et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation 123 (2023) 103457
14
Guan, Z., Abd-Elrahman, A., Fan, Z., Whitaker, V.M., Wilkinson, B., 2020. Modeling 
strawberry biomass and leaf area using object-based analysis of high-resolution 
images. ISPRS J. Photogramm. Remote Sens. 163, 171–186. 
Guthman, J., 2017. Paradoxes of the border: Labor shortages and farmworker minor 
agency in reworking California’s strawberry fields. Econ. Geogr 93, 24–43. 
Han, W., Li, J., Wang, S., Wang, Y., Yan, J., Fan, R., Zhang, X., Wang, L., 2022. A context- 
scale-aware detector and a new benchmark for remote sensing small weak object 
detection in unmanned aerial vehicle images. Int. J. Appl. Earth Obs. Geoinf. 112, 
102966. 
Jiang, C., Ren, H., Ye, X., Zhu, J., Zeng, H., Nan, Y., Sun, M., Ren, X., Huo, H., 2022. 
Object detection from UAV thermal infrared images and videos using YOLO models. 
Int. J. Appl. Earth Obs. Geoinf. 112, 102912. 
Ju, C., Kim, J., Seol, J., Son, H.I., 2022. A review on multirobot systems in agriculture. 
Comput. Electron. Agric. 202, 107336. 
Khan, K., Rehman, S.U., Aziz, K., Fong, S., Sarasvady, S., 2014. DBSCAN: Past, present 
and future, in: The Fifth International Conference on the Applications of Digital 
Information and Web Technologies (ICADIWT 2014). IEEE, pp. 232–238. 
Koirala, A., Walsh, K.B., Wang, Z., McCarthy, C., 2019. Deep learning–Method overview 
and review of use for fruit detection and yield estimation. Comput. Electron. Agric. 
162, 219–234. 
Lamb, N., Chuah, M.C., 2018. A strawberry detection system using convolutional neural 
networks. In: In: 2018 IEEE International Conference on Big Data (Big Data). IEEE, 
pp. 2515–2520. 
Lin, P., Chen, Y., 2018. Detection of strawberry flowers in outdoor field by deep neural 
network. In: in: 2018 IEEE 3rd International Conference on Image, Vision and 
Computing (ICIVC). IEEE, pp. 482–486. 
Lin, T.-Y., Goyal, P., Girshick, R., He, K., Doll´ar, P., 2017. Focal loss for dense object 
detection. In: in: Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Computer 
Vision, pp. 2980–2988. 
Liu, T., Abd-Elrahman, A., 2018a. Multi-view object-based classification of wetland land 
covers using unmanned aircraft system images. Remote Sens. Environ. 216, 
122–138. 
Liu, T., Abd-Elrahman, A., 2018b. Deep convolutional neural network training 
enrichment using multi-view object-based analysis of Unmanned Aerial systems 
imagery for wetlands classification. ISPRS J. Photogramm. Remote Sens. 139, 
154–170. 
Liu, T., Abd-Elrahman, A., Dewitt, B., Smith, S., Morton, J., Wilhelm, V.L., 2019. 
Evaluating the potential of multi-view data extraction from small Unmanned Aerial 
Systems (UASs) for object-based classification for Wetland land covers. GIScience 
Remote Sens. 56, 130–159. 
Liu, W., Anguelov, D., Erhan, D., Szegedy, C., Reed, S., Fu, C.-Y., Berg, A.C., 2016. Ssd: 
Single shot multibox detector, in: Computer Vision–ECCV 2016: 14th European 
Conference, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, October 11–14, 2016, Proceedings, Part I 
14. Springer, pp. 21–37. 
Liu, Y., Zhang, Yao, Wang, Y., Hou, F., Yuan, J., Tian, J., Zhang, Yang, Shi, Z., Fan, J., He, 
Z., 2021. A survey of visual transformers. arXiv Prepr. arXiv2111.06091. 
Lowe, D.G., 1987. Three-dimensional object recognition from single two-dimensional 
images. Artif. Intell. 31, 355–395. 
Mostafa, A.M., Kumar, S.A., Meraj, T., Rauf, H.T., Alnuaim, A.A., Alkhayyal, M.A., 2021. 
Guava disease detection using deep convolutional neural networks: A case study of 
guava plants. Appl. Sci. 12, 239. 
Osco, L.P., Junior, J.M., Ramos, A.P.M., de Castro Jorge, L.A., Fatholahi, S.N., de 
Andrade Silva, J., Matsubara, E.T., Pistori, H., Gonçalves, W.N., Li, J., 2021. 
A review on deep learning in UAV remote sensing. Int. J. Appl. Earth Obs. Geoinf. 
102, 102456. 
Parico, A.I.B., Ahamed, T., 2021. Real time pear fruit detection and counting using 
YOLOv4 models and deep SORT. Sensors 21, 4803. 
Qiao, S., Chen, L.-C., Yuille, A., 2021. Detectors: Detecting objects with recursive feature 
pyramid and switchable atrous convolution, in: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF 
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. pp. 10213–10224. 
Reedha, R., Dericquebourg, E., Canals, R., Hafiane, A., 2022. Transformer neural 
network for weed and crop classification of high resolution UAV images. Remote 
Sens. 14, 592. 
Ren, S., He, K., Girshick, R., Sun, J., 2015. Faster r-cnn: Towards real-time object 
detection with region proposal networks. Adv. Neural Inf. Process, Syst, p. 28. 
Savini, G., Neri, D., Zucconi, F., Sugiyama, N., 2005. Strawberry growth and flowering: 
an architectural model. Int. J. fruit Sci. 5, 29–50. 
Schroff, F., Kalenichenko, D., Philbin, J., 2015. Facenet: A unified embedding for face 
recognition and clustering, in: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer 
Vision and Pattern Recognition. pp. 815–823. 
Shafiee, M.J., Chywl, B., Li, F., Wong, A., 2017. Fast YOLO: A fast you only look once 
system for real-time embedded object detection in video. arXiv Prepr. 
arXiv1709.05943. 
Song, H., Sun, D., Chun, S., Jampani, V., Han, D., Heo, B., Kim, W., Yang, M.-H., 2021. 
Vidt: An efficient and effective fully transformer-based object detector. arXiv Prepr. 
arXiv2110.03921. 
Tan, M., Pang, R., Le, Q. V, 2020. Efficientdet: Scalable and efficient object detection, in: 
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern 
Recognition. pp. 10781–10790. 
Triggs, B., McLauchlan, P.F., Hartley, R.I., Fitzgibbon, A.W., 2000. Bundle adjustment—a 
modern synthesis, in: Vision Algorithms: Theory and Practice: International 
Workshop on Vision Algorithms Corfu, Greece, September 21–22, 1999 Proceedings. 
Springer, pp. 298–372. 
Vasconez, J.P., Delpiano, J., Vougioukas, S., Cheein, F.A., 2020. Comparison of 
convolutional neural networks in fruit detection and counting: A comprehensive 
evaluation. Comput. Electron. Agric. 173, 105348. 
Wang, Y., Yan, G., Meng, Q., Yao, T., Han, J., Zhang, B., 2022. DSE-YOLO: Detail 
semantics enhancement YOLO for multi-stage strawberry detection. Comput. 
Electron. Agric. 198, 107057. 
Weiss, M., Jacob, F., Duveiller, G., 2020. Remote sensing for agricultural applications: A 
meta-review. Remote Sens. Environ. 236, 111402. 
Weng, S., Yu, S., Dong, R., Pan, F., Liang, D., 2020. Nondestructive detection of storage 
time of strawberries using visible/near-infrared hyperspectral imaging. Int. J. Food 
Prop. 23, 269–281. 
Wosner, O., Farjon, G., Bar-Hillel, A., 2021. Object detection in agricultural contexts: A 
multiple resolution benchmark and comparison to human. Comput. Electron. Agric. 
189, 106404. 
Yang, B., Ali, F., Yin, P., Yang, T., Yu, Y., Li, S., Liu, X., 2021. Approaches for exploration 
of improving multi-slice mapping via forwarding intersection based on images of 
UAV oblique photogrammetry. Comput. Electr. Eng. 92, 107135. 
Yu, Y., Zhang, K., Yang, L., Zhang, D., 2019. Fruit detection for strawberry harvesting 
robot in non-structural environment based on Mask-RCNN. Comput. Electron. Agric. 
163, 104846. 
Zaidi, S.S.A., Ansari, M.S., Aslam, A., Kanwal, N., Asghar, M., Lee, B., 2022. A survey of 
modern deep learning-based object detection models. Digit. Signal Process. 103514. 
Zhang, C., Elaksher, A., 2012. An unmanned aerial vehicle-based imaging system for 3D 
measurement of unpaved road surface distresses 1. Comput. Civ. Infrastruct. Eng. 27, 
118–129. 
Zheng, C., Abd-Elrahman, A., Whitaker, V., 2021. Remote sensing and machine learning 
in crop phenotyping and management, with an emphasis on applications in 
strawberry farming. Remote Sens. 13, 531. 
Zhou, C., Hu, J., Xu, Z., Yue, J., Ye, H., Yang, G., 2020. A novel greenhouse-based system 
for the detection and plumpness assessment of strawberry using an improved deep 
learning technique. Front. Plant Sci. 11, 559. 
Zhou, C., Ye, H., Sun, D., Yue, J., Yang, G., Hu, J., 2022. An automated, high- 
performance approach for detecting and characterizing broccoli based on UAV 
remote-sensing and transformers: A case study from Haining, China. Int. J. Appl. 
Earth Obs. Geoinf. 114, 103055. 
Zou, Z., Shi, Z., Guo, Y., Ye, J., 2019. Object detection in 20 years: A survey. arXiv Prepr. 
arXiv1905.05055. 
C. Zheng et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
