Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Expert Systems With Applications
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/eswa
Advancing tracking-by-detection with MultiMap: Towards
occlusion-resilient online multiclass strawberry counting
Xuehai Zhou a, Yuyang Zhang a, Xintong Jiang a, Kashif Riaz b, Phil Rosenbaum c, Mark Lefsrud a,
Shangpeng Sun a,∗
a McGill University, 21111 Lakeshore Rd, Sainte-Anne-de-Bellevue, H9X 3V9, Quebec, Canada
b Ferme d’Hiver Inc., 4255 Boulevard Lapinière, Bureau 206, Brossard, J4Z 0C7, Quebec, Canada
c Gush Inc., 17003 Trans-Canada Highway, Kirkland, H9H 5J1, Quebec, Canada
A R T I C L E
I N F O
Keywords:
Yield prediction
Fruit counting
Object detection
Online tracking
Attention mechanism
A B S T R A C T
Despite the economic importance and research relevance of strawberries, advances in agricultural engineering
for this crop have been hampered by pervasive occlusion challenges. Accurate fruit counting is crucial for
both yield prediction and genotype selection; however, current fruit counting techniques fall short in large-
scale strawberry farms. Leveraging computer vision, a refined strawberry detection network that integrates
YOLOv5s with the attention mechanism identifies and locates both ripe and unripe strawberries in videos
from strawberry farms. By utilizing tracking-by-detection algorithms, this system is able to trace multiple
fruits from their first appearance to their final disappearance in real-time footage. To strengthen its resilience
against occlusion, we have enhanced the tracking-by-detection algorithms with a multiple mapping algorithm.
Without compromising its real-time performance, this implementation not only strengthens the robustness to
occlusion but also segregates and tallies each strawberry class, presenting multiclass counts to the users. Within
prevalent tracking frameworks, our approach records a mere 6.7% relative counting error rate. Furthermore,
the lowest error rates for the classes of ripe and unripe strawberries were 8.7% and 9.9%, respectively. We
contend that our method furnishes accurate counting data for digital agriculture, with the potential for broader
applications. The code is open-source at https://github.com/Xuehaiz/MultiMap.
1. Introduction
In the contemporary landscape of big data, there has been a sig-
nificant surge in the demand for instantaneous decision-making within
the realm of digital agriculture (Wolfert et al., 2017). Precise and real-
time information on fruit counts and ripening ratios is indispensable in
digital farming, facilitating dynamic adjustments in lighting, irrigation,
and fertilization strategies as well as providing vital indication for yield
predictions. Subsequently, these metrics guide the strategic introduc-
tion of products to the market. Given this context, the integration of
an automated fruit counting system emerges as an invaluable asset for
modern agricultural practices. In particular, the strawberry, a crop of
substantial economic importance, illustrates the need for precise fruit
counting. The fragility and short shelf life of strawberries require metic-
ulous planning in harvesting and distribution, while their susceptibility
to rapid overripening calls for tailored cultivation practices to optimize
yield and quality. In this context, an accurate count of strawberries is
not only a convenience but also a necessity for strategic agricultural
∗Corresponding author.
E-mail addresses: xuehai.zhou@mail.mcgill.ca (X. Zhou), yuyang.zhang@mail.mcgill.ca (Y. Zhang), xintong.jiang@mail.mcgill.ca (X. Jiang),
kriaz@fermedhiver.com (K. Riaz), phil@gush.farm (P. Rosenbaum), mark.lefsrud@mcgill.ca (M. Lefsrud), shangpeng.sun@mcgill.ca (S. Sun).
management. However, the precise counting of strawberries is compli-
cated by their propensity to grow in overlapping clusters, a condition
that introduces substantial occlusional challenges, which significantly
hinders advances in this domain of agricultural research.
In agricultural engineering, the reconstruction and analysis of 3D
data have been recognized as effective approaches to address the
problem of occlusions (Sun et al., 2020). However, current 3D methods
are still challenging for large-scale applications because it is diffi-
cult to obtain high-resolution 3D imaging data at field or regional
scales and requires high computational resources. As a result, we
need to revisit 2D methods to resolve concerns related to occlu-
sions and clustering. Primarily, convolution-based 2D object detec-
tion has been a relatively mature and refined solution in the current
stage (Ren et al., 2015). With the emergence of convolution-based
object detection, a large number of image-based counting methods
appeared (Ghosal et al., 2019; Zhang, Zhang et al., 2022; Zhao et al.,
2023). Secondly, the emergence of the attention mechanism as a
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2024.124587
Received 25 January 2024; Received in revised form 7 June 2024; Accepted 22 June 2024
Expert Systems With Applications 255 (2024) 124587 
Available online 26 June 2024 
0957-4174/© 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by- 
nc-nd/4.0/ ). 

X. Zhou et al.
foundational algorithm (Bahdanau et al., 2014) has facilitated a sig-
nificant enhancement in the precision of computer vision tasks. In
recent years, there has also been a proliferation of exemplary works
in the domain of plant science that are based on the attention mecha-
nism (James et al., 2024; Zheng et al., 2023). Single-shot image-based
detection and counting methods offer numerous advantages such as
rapid data processing speeds and minimal storage demands. However,
such singular perspective approaches exhibit diminished robustness
for occlusions. Furthermore, in large-scale farming operations, there
is often a reliance on stitching multiple snapshots together to achieve
global counting, thereby sacrificing real-time capability.
Tracking-by-detection has become a paradigm that combines object
detection in individual frames with the association of the identical de-
tections over time to track objects in video sequences (Luo et al., 2021).
Thanks to the advancement of object detection algorithms, tracking-
by-detection algorithms have also seen significant progress in recent
years (Bewley et al., 2016). With these tracking algorithms, we can
identify and associate the same object across frames in videos. With the
motion of cameras, video data capture multi-angle information of the
objects, thereby alleviating the occlusion issue of object detection. Fur-
thermore, the online attribute of these tracking algorithms facilitates
immediate decision-making, meaning video frames can be processed
as they come without the need to access future frames. However,
compared to tracking algorithms that prioritize recording the motion
trajectory of objects, the task of object counting is often overlooked.
Consequently, it becomes necessary to customize a counting module for
tracking algorithms to address the counting problem in our application
context.
A large volume of counting methods have been proposed and tai-
lored for agricultural scenarios. An outstanding series of contributions
to fruit counting in apple orchards has been established by Wu et al.
through the development of advanced automatic fruit counting systems,
emphasizing the accuracy and reduction of abnormal fruit detections
(Wu, Sun, Jiang, Gao et al., 2023; Wu, Sun, Jiang, Mao et al., 2023),
while Gao et al. have introduced a novel methodology combining deep
learning and trunk tracking for precise apple detection and counting
(Gao et al., 2022). Among these approaches, employing tracking-by-
detection for counting in 2D videos represents a relatively novel area
of research, within which most contributions exhibit varying degrees
of limitations. In the context of seedling counting, given the uniformity
of the scene and the low-occlusion environment, tracking-by-detection
methods were applied and generally did not present substantial chal-
lenges in both detection and tracking (Cui et al., 2023; Jiang et al.,
2019; Yang et al., 2022).
Shen et al. (2023) integrated a cross-line
with tracking-by-detection for grape cluster enumeration, providing an
additional filtering mechanism for object tallying in frames. However,
the display of the cross-line to the user end is extraneous and appears
counterintuitive. Moreover, their method presented the count infor-
mation in the corner of each frame rather than juxtaposing it with
the grape clusters, potentially compromising verifiability. In the study
by Rong et al. (2023), they introduced a window overlay on the input
video to filter the counting numbers to address the counting problem
inherited in tracking-by-detection. The rationale behind the window
overlay bears a notable resemblance to the cross-line method proposed
by Shen et al. (2023), thus implying a shared set of deficiencies across
such approaches. Unfortunately, none of the above methods offered
the capability for multiclass counting or the evaluation of their online
efficiency, revealing a notable gap in current research paradigms.
The overall objective of this study is to develop an automated end-
to-end strawberry fruit counting system that adapts to contemporary
digital farming operations. To achieve this goal, the task is structured
into three phases: (1) developing a strawberry fruit detection deep
learning network by combining YOLOv5s and the attention mech-
anism which prioritize both detection accuracy and computational
efficiency. (2) designing a customized tracking-based object counting
module, robust against occlusions, proficient in multiclass enumeration,
and maintaining real-time capability; and (3) validating the proposed
method using video footage sourced from two strawberry farms.
Table 1
Validation dataset overview.
Keys
Ferme d’Hiver
Ferme gush
Video number
30
10
Duration
15 min
5 min
Motion speed
0.8 m/s
0.15 m/s
Ripe average
49
28
Unripe average
139
86
FPS
30
Resolution
1920 × 1080
2. Materials and methods
2.1. Data acquisition
Video data for counting validation. The collection of video data
took place in two distinct agricultural environments, both located in the
Greater Montréal Area, Canada. The first environment, Ferme d’Hiver,
operates as a large-scale commercial vertical farming system (Delden
et al., 2021). The planting rack in this farm spans 13.4 meters in
length and reaches 4.9 meters in height. Fig. 1a illustrates that we
placed ourselves on a lift platform, regulating its vertical and horizontal
movements to facilitate video recording. The second environment,
Ferme Gush, is an experimental indoor farm (Fig. 1b). The planting
rack measures 2.9 meters high and extends 3.0 meters in length. In
this setting, we hold the recording device and operate it to collect data
at a uniform walking speed.
We utilized a Google Pixel 7 Pro smartphone, mounted on a DJI
OSMO Mobile 6 gimbal, for the data collection process. Detailed in-
formation on data collection is presented in Table 1. All videos were
captured at a resolution of 1920 × 1080 at 30 FPS. In the Ferme d’Hiver,
we gathered thirty videos, while in the Ferme Gush, we took ten videos.
On average, each video spans a duration of 30 s. At Ferme d’Hiver, a
lift platform was utilized, with its speed adjusted to the minimum of
approximately 0.8 meters per second, whereas at Ferme Gush, filming
equipment was manually operated and transported at a walking speed
of about 0.15 meters per second. Within the videos collected from
Ferme d’Hiver, an average of 49 ripe fruits and 139 unripe fruits were
observed per video. In videos sourced from Ferme Gush, there was an
average of 28 ripe fruits and 86 unripe fruits per video.
Image data for detection training. Due to the widespread culti-
vation of strawberries and the availability of abundant open-source
annotated datasets for this crop, we were spared the need for extensive
annotation efforts. We selected 440 high-quality, augmented anno-
tated images from these datasets to serve as our training set (Shorten
& Khoshgoftaar, 2019). Four images from our training dataset have
been randomly selected for demonstration (Fig. 2). Furthermore, we
extracted 20 images from the collected video data, which, after anno-
tation, were used as our validation set. To ensure the generalizability
of the network we trained, our validation set also incorporated 80
annotated images of strawberries from diverse open-source scenarios.
2.2. Method overview
The overarching structure of our counting method is depicted in
Fig. 3. The process unfolds in the following four steps in a systematic
manner: (1) Videos sourced from strawberry farms serve as input. (2)
A fine-tuned strawberry fruit detection network combining YOLOv5s
and the attention mechanism processes these videos, revealing location
information in the form of bounding boxes for both ripe and unripe
classes. (3) A tracking algorithm discerns individual strawberry fruit
identities across consecutive frames, assigning each identity with a
unique Track ID. (4) A multiple mapping algorithm extracts the count-
ing information from the tracking algorithm for both classes separately
and then presents them to the user end.
Expert Systems With Applications 255 (2024) 124587 
2 

X. Zhou et al.
Fig. 1. Video data collection was conducted in two strawberry farms. A cell phone mounted on a gimbal was used for data collection. (a) Thirty video data were collected by
standing on the mobile lift platform in the Ferme d’Hiver. (b) Ten video data were collected by walking and shooting in the Ferme Gush.
Fig. 2. Four sample images from our training dataset are shown. Ripe strawberries are annotated with purple bounding boxes, while unripe ones are labeled with bright yellow
bounding boxes.
Fig. 3. There are four stages in our strawberry fruit counting method overview. (a) Inputs are videos taken on strawberry farms. (b) Location information in the form of bounding
boxes is generated by an object detection network. (c) Track IDs are generated by a tracking algorithm. (d) Track IDs are replaced by counting indicators utilizing our developed
MultiMap algorithm.
Expert Systems With Applications 255 (2024) 124587 
3 

X. Zhou et al.
2.3. Detection module
Object detection is a cornerstone of computer vision research.
Among the plethora of frameworks, the YOLO series has earned signif-
icant recognition due to its unified architecture (Redmon et al., 2016).
Contrary to conventional approaches that distinguish between region
proposal and object classification (Ren et al., 2015), YOLO obviates
these steps, leading to real-time processing while maintaining satisfac-
tory detection precision. In the evolution of YOLO, the fifth generation,
known as YOLOv5, emerged as an object detection framework suitable
for downstream industrial applications. This framework incorporates
influential work in the field of object detection, such as the path
aggregation network (PANet) (Liu et al., 2018). Among its variants,
the YOLOv5s model, distinguished by its compactness, is an optimal
choice for real-time detection tasks and edge deployment scenarios.
Consequently, YOLOv5s has been chosen as our baseline network for
strawberry detection.
To augment the efficacy of YOLOv5s, we incorporated various
attention mechanisms and transformer modules (Fig. 4):
• Channel/Spatial Attention Modules:
– CBAM (Convolutional Block Attention Module): CBAM infers
attention maps along both channel and spatial dimensions, refining
feature representations accordingly (Woo et al., 2018).
– SA-Net (Shuffle Attention Network): SA-Net provides a light
weight and efficient way to model cross-channel relationships and
exchange information, improving representational power (Zhang &
Yang, 2021).
– SimAM (Simplified Attention Module): SimAM is a simple,
parameter-free attention module designed to avoid potential degra-
dation while offering marginal performance gains (Yang et al.,
2021).
• Vision Transformers:
– Vision Transformer (ViT): ViT repurposes the transformer archi-
tecture — originally conceived for natural language processing
— for image recognition. It segments images into patches and
processes them as a sequence of tokens for parallel computa-
tion (Dosovitskiy et al., 2020).
– Swin Transformer: The Swin Transformer builds on ViT by intro-
ducing a hierarchical and shifted window approach, optimizing fea-
tures at varying scales and reducing computational demands (Liu
et al., 2021).
These attention and transformer modules can strategically enhance
the feature extraction capabilities and performance of YOLOv5s. While
some attention mechanisms, such as transformers, can be computation-
ally expensive, others offer a lightweight alternative. Strategically inte-
grating a single attention layer into YOLOv5 can balance the benefits
of attention with computational efficiency.
2.4. Tracking module
Upon acquisition of real-time object detection bounding boxes, we
want to associate the detected objects with identical objects across
frames, while this procedure can be performed using tracking algo-
rithms. In our study, we adopted three recent tracking-by-detection al-
gorithms: DeepSORT (Wojke et al., 2017), ByteTrack (Zhang, Sun et al.,
2022), and StrongSORT (Du et al., 2023). Contrary to conventional
tracking algorithms, DeepSORT incorporates a learning-based feature
extractor to consider object appearance, and StrongSORT further re-
fines this extractor, resulting in state-of-the-art tracking performance
on the Multiple Object Tracking (MOT) benchmark dataset (Milan
et al., 2016). On the other hand, ByteTrack filters out objects with
lower scores from backgrounds with the rationale that objects with
lower scores may be occluded or blurred, thereby improving tracking
Fig. 4. A brief architecture of a refined detection neural network is presented. Various
attention layers were deployed and evaluated.
performance in complex situations. The core of these tracking algo-
rithms is the synergy between the tracks derived from the Kalman filter
and the association of detections using the Hungarian algorithm with
their respective tracks. To facilitate conceptual clarity in the following
discourse, let 𝑑𝑖represent the state of the 𝑖th detection in the set of
detections in the current frame, and 𝑡𝑗signify the 𝑗th track in the set
of tracks from predicted states of the previous frame.
Kalman filter prediction. The Kalman filter is widely used to predict
the internal state of a linear dynamic system based on a series of noisy
measurements. In our dynamic system, the state and motion space are
represented as (𝑥, 𝑦, 𝛾, ℎ,̇ 𝑥,̇ 𝑦,̇ 𝛾,̇ ℎ) where (𝑥, 𝑦) denotes the centroid of
the bounding box, 𝛾signifies the aspect ratio, ℎrepresents height, and
their corresponding velocities arė 𝑥,̇ 𝑦,̇ 𝛾, anḋ ℎ. In general, the Kalman
filtering process bifurcates into two stages: state prediction and state
update. During the prediction phase, on the basis of the object position
and velocity from the previous frame, the object position and velocity
of the current frame are predicted. The update phase leverages the
Kalman gain to weigh the importance of the new observation relative
to the prediction and corrects the predicted state of an object using the
latest measurements. Kalman gain at the time step 𝑘during the update
phase is derived as
𝐾𝑘= 𝑃′
𝑘𝐻𝑇
𝑘(𝐻𝑘𝑃′
𝑘𝐻𝑇
𝑘+ 𝑅𝑘)−1,
(1)
where 𝑃′
𝑘and 𝑅𝑘are the covariance of the estimated state and the
observation noise, and 𝐻𝑘designates a transition model that maps
the state distribution into the measurement space. In the tracking-by-
detection paradigm, the noise covariance 𝑅𝑘can be modulated by the
detection confidence level 𝑐𝑘, as expressed iñ
𝑅𝑘= (1 −𝑐𝑘)𝑅𝑘,
(2)
given that elevated confidence levels correlate with diminished
observation noise magnitudes (Du et al., 2021).
Association. In tracking algorithms, the association between and
is another critical component. The Hungarian algorithm, which uses
a cost matrix to represent the weight associated with each potential
assignment, is widely applied to address assignment problems between
two sets of entities; in our context, this matrix is used to describe the
relationship between 𝑑𝑖and 𝑡𝑗. The Hungarian algorithm we adopted
is a variation of the Jonker-Volgenant algorithm, as detailed in Crouse
(2016). The methods behind constructing the cost matrix often mark
the point of divergence among various tracking algorithms. Therefore,
in the following discussion we will use the classical DeepSORT as a
representative example to elucidate the concept of association. The
measure of distance between 𝑑𝑖and 𝑡𝑗is determined by the following
cost function
𝐶𝑑𝑖,𝑡𝑗= 𝜆𝐶𝑚
𝑑𝑖,𝑡𝑗+ (1 −𝜆)𝐶𝑎
𝑑𝑖,𝑡𝑗,
(3)
where 𝐶𝑚embodies the motion information through computation of
the physical Mahalanobis distance. 𝐶𝑎captures the appearance infor-
mation by calculating the cosine distance between the deep-learned
Expert Systems With Applications 255 (2024) 124587 
4 

X. Zhou et al.
feature of 𝑑𝑖and the stored features of 𝑡𝑗. The parameter 𝜆, in the
range of [0, 1], serves as a trade-off factor that integrates motion and
appearance information.
The results of the association can be categorized into matches,
where detections are successfully paired with existing tracks; un-
matched tracks, which may arise due to occlusions, false detections, or
the tracked object leaving the scene; and unmatched detections, which
occur when a new object enters the scene or when an existing object is
not correctly associated with a track. Following the initial association,
an IoU matching offers a second chance for both unmatched tracks
and detections to capture runaway matches, thereby enhancing the
robustness of the tracking algorithm. If
𝐼𝑜𝑈(𝑑𝑖, 𝑡𝑗) ≥𝐼𝑜𝑈𝑡ℎ𝑟𝑒𝑠ℎ𝑜𝑙𝑑,
(4)
the pair (𝑑𝑖, 𝑡𝑗) will also be included in the set of matches.
Track ID and ID switch. Tracking algorithms assign a unique Track
ID, often an incremental integer, to each individual track. This Track
ID serves as an essential tool to preserve the identity of objects, thereby
reducing potential ambiguities. In scenarios where multiple objects
of similar appearance are present, the implementation of Track IDs
ensures clear differentiations between these entities. Without these dis-
tinct identifiers, there is an increased likelihood of misidentifying one
object with another. Moreover, the provision of the Track ID facilitates
a more intuitive interpretation for human analysts. This empowers
them to undertake comprehensive analytics based on the trajectory
or behavior of specific objects, encompassing aspects like movement
patterns and interactions with surrounding entities.
However, the ID switch refers to the incorrect assignment or swap
of identities between tracked objects in the subsequent frames, and
the phenomenon of the ID switch presents a significant challenge in
MOT problems. Fig. 5 illustrates the concept of the ID switch, which
occurs when the tracking algorithm misidentifies the tracked object.
The figure is a 3D graph with three axes of time, X position and Y
position, showing two trajectories: the real trajectory and the trajectory
estimated by the Kalman filter, with the ID switch highlighted in
blue at time 5. Several factors contribute to this complication: (1)
Occlusions, where one object overlaps with another or is concealed
behind it, may attribute the identity of one object to another. (2) In
scenarios characterized by the presence of multiple objects with similar
appearances, such complexities may lead the tracker to inadvertent
interchange of their respective IDs. (3) Fast and unpredictable object
movements can cause the tracker to lose an object and later misidentify
it. (4) If the detector provides inaccurate bounding boxes or misses
some detections, it can also lead to ID switches in subsequent tracking
phases.
2.5. Multiple mapping
Before delving into the proposed Multiple Mapping (MultiMap)
solutions, it is crucial to clarify the underlying causes of inaccuracies
in counting tasks when applying native implementations of tracking
algorithms.
State transition. Besides a unique Track ID, each track is also
associated with a state indicator, which alternates between Tentative,
Confirmed, and Deleted states. Let 𝑇, 𝐶, and 𝐷symbolize the sets
of Tentative, Confirmed, and Deleted tracks, respectively. Parameters 𝑛
and 𝑚are defined as the consecutive hit threshold for track confirma-
tion and the disappearance threshold for track deletion, respectively.
The number of consecutive hits for track 𝑡is denoted as 𝐻(𝑡), while
𝑀(𝑡) stands for the number of consecutive frames in which track 𝑡has
been missed. The state transitions are as follows:
Initialization:
For each 𝑑∈not matched with any 𝑡∈,
initialize a new track with a unique Track ID
and add it to 𝑇.
Fig. 5. Real trajectory describes the actual movement path of an object, while
estimated trajectory describes the movement path of the object as predicted by the
tracking algorithm. The highlighted ID switch event illustrated the moment where the
tracking algorithm misidentifies the tracked object.
From Tentative to
Confirmed:
For each matched 𝑡∈𝑇, increment 𝐻(𝑡) by 1.
Move 𝑡from 𝑇to 𝐶if 𝐻(𝑡) = 𝑛.
From Confirmed to
Deleted:
For each unmatched 𝑡∈𝐶, increment 𝑀(𝑡) by
1. Move 𝑡from 𝐶to 𝐷if 𝑀(𝑡) = 𝑚.
From Tentative to
Deleted:
For each unmatched 𝑡∈𝑇, increment 𝑀(𝑡) by
1. Move 𝑡from 𝑇to 𝐷if 𝑀(𝑡) = 𝑚.
The incorporation of state transitions significantly enhances the
robustness of the tracking algorithm, especially considering the sub-
stantial number of executions on the detection network in noisy video
scenes. The threshold of 𝑛consecutive hits not only minimizes false
positive detections (cases where detections are not the desired objects)
but also provides additional data points for the motion model (e.g., the
Kalman filter), resulting in a refined motion estimation. Meanwhile, the
threshold of 𝑚missed tracks curtails false negative cases (situations
where desired objects present undetected in a frame) and grants the
tracker a grace period to re-identify an object through temporary
occlusions, maintaining its original ID.
Typically, setting 𝑛to 3 proves effective in noisy environments.
However, adjustments may be necessary depending on the complexity
of the scene. In more complex scenes, where distinguishing between ob-
jects becomes challenging, increasing 𝑛helps in ensuring more reliable
track confirmation. The value of 𝑚, on the other hand, is influenced
by the frame rate and the velocity of object movement. A higher 𝑚is
recommended for scenes with a high frame rate to maintain a consistent
duration for track deletion. In cases of slow motion of cameras, it is
advisable to increase 𝑚, ensuring that the track deletion occurs only
after the camera has covered a substantial area.
Problem statement. At this point, an inherent contradiction arises
between the Track ID and the state transition when the Track ID
is naively considered as a direct counting result. The Track ID is
initialized prior to the state transition, which implies that the Track
ID might account for detections even before they are confirmed by the
state transition. Although the consecutive hit threshold 𝑛effectively
filters out false positive detections and association failures, Track ID
has already incorporated these inaccuracies. Thus, when Track ID is
Expert Systems With Applications 255 (2024) 124587 
5 

X. Zhou et al.
Fig. 6. In this flowchart, we have encapsulated the workflow of the tracking algorithm and provided a visualization detailing our MultiMap algorithm. Within this representation,
solid lines delineate the construction of the tracker and reference, while dashed lines indicate the inference and writing stages.
displayed at the user end, it demonstrates a discontinuity in numbering.
We define this phenomenon as ID jumps. In low-noise scenarios, char-
acterized by minimal occlusions and consistent motion speeds, false
positive detections and failure of the association are infrequent, making
the error from using Track ID as a counting indicator relatively minor.
However, when applying tracking algorithms naively in our contexts,
there are significant instances of ID jumps, causing the Track ID to
consistently exceed the desired counting result.
It is essential to distinguish between the issues of ID jump and
ID switch, as they bear different implications in tracking algorithms.
Specifically, ID jump is not perceived as a problem in tracking tasks.
The primary purpose of incorporating a Track ID is to serve as an
identifier rather than a counting indicator. Provided that the Track ID
for an object remains unique and consistent from its appearance to its
disappearance, the tracking algorithm remains unaffected by whether
the Track ID is continuous when presented to the user. In contrast, tasks
focused on counting necessitate strict continuity in their numbering
sequence. In essence, the ID switch refers to a scenario where a single
object, due to factors such as occlusion or false association, is misiden-
tified as two distinct entities. On the contrary, ID jump represents
a phenomenon in which consecutively appearing Track IDs may not
exhibit numerical continuity.
MultiMap. Thus, we propose the MultiMap scheme, an effective
online solution to the ID jump issue in MOT problems. This scheme, a
successor to the Dynamic Mapping algorithm as detailed in Zhou et al.
(2023), is both easy to implement and effective in application. While
Dynamic Mapping primarily supports single-class counting, MultiMap
extends its functionality to enable the counting of objects across mul-
tiple distinct classes separately. The intuition behind MultiMap is to
concentrate on accounting for tracks within 𝐶, rather than spanning
across all initialized Track IDs. Given that the tracker is updated for
tracks in the most recent frame but absent from historical tracks, it is
advantageous to employ a buffer to maintain a record of all confirmed
tracks. To accommodate our multi-class counting requirements, we
utilize a reference to account for all confirmed tracks present up until
the current frame while providing a distinction by class. The reference
is structured in two layers, denoted by 1 and 2. Let represent
the ensemble of object classes and 2(𝑜) designate the mapping for a
class 𝑜under 2. In addition, we introduce 2 as a function to map
each confirmed track to a distinct integer. Formally, for 𝑡∈𝐶will be
assigned to a cardinal number 𝑐∈. We have
{
1 ∶→2(𝑜),
2 ∶𝐶→.
(5)
Within this framework, each confirmed Track ID 𝑡∈𝐶is mapped to
a unique counting number in the sequence by class.
Algorithm 1 A multi-object mapping scheme that projects Track IDs to
counting numbers.
1: procedure MultiMap(𝐶, 1)
2:
for 𝑡in 𝐶do
3:
if 𝑡.class in 1 then
4:
if 𝑡.id in 2 then
5:
continue
6:
prev ←max(1(𝑡.class).values())
7:
2(𝑡.id) ←prev + 1
8:
else
9:
2 = init( )
# Initiate 2
10:
2(𝑡.id) ←1
11:
return 1
An illustrative overview of the integration of MultiMap with preva-
lent tracking algorithms is presented in Fig. 6, while Algorithm 1
provides a breakdown specification of our MultiMap scheme. The
constructed reference retains historical data from 𝐶and synchronizes
updates with the tracker. In the posterior stage, rather than displaying
the Track ID on each frame, we retrieve the corresponding counting
number from the reference using the Track ID and its associated class
name. Subsequently, the counting number and class name are displayed
along with the bounding boxes on the screen. Through our MultiMap
scheme, we manage the counting task in complex scenes.
Having addressed the primary challenge of counting, we want to
revisit our method in large-scale application scenarios. As we contin-
uously accumulate historical data in our reference and synchronize it
with the tracker, the size of this reference can become cumbersome,
particularly when counting tasks in contemporary agricultural practices
involve thousands or more objects. Travesing such long lists for each
input frame risks compromising our algorithm’s real-time efficiency. To
address this, we introduce a threshold 𝑠within the MultiMap algorithm.
Expert Systems With Applications 255 (2024) 124587 
6 

X. Zhou et al.
Fig. 7. A randomly selected output video serves as an illustrative example of the counting results. Alongside each bounding box are the counting numbers and the object class.
Any false negative detections are highlighted with red dashed bounding boxes. The camera moved from left to right, and the images represent a sequence that spans six consecutive
seconds, arranged in the order indicated by the arrows.
We assume that all objects will be present for a maximum of 𝑠frames
in the input video data. Consequently, any object that persists in our
reference beyond the 𝑠th frame can be pruned. The value of 𝑠can be
fine-tuned based on environments such as the approximate number of
objects and the relative speed of camera motion in specific contexts.
By regulating the size of our reference and ensuring that the MultiMap
inference time remains optimal, we optimized our method for real-time
counting in large-scale agricultural settings.
2.6. Experimental platform and validation metrics
Computing hardware and settings. All experiments were performed
on a workstation equipped with a GeForce RTX 3060 graphics card
that possesses 12 GB of memory. For powering these operations, the
CPU employed was an Intel Core i7-12700KF. The environment for
algorithm development and validation was set up on the Ubuntu 22.04
LTS operating system. As for the software specifications, our system
utilized Python version 3.7.16. Complementing this, deep learning
models and associated tasks were developed using PyTorch version
1.13.1, along with its auxiliary library, torchvision, version 0.14.1. Fur-
thermore, image processing tasks were facilitated through the OpenCV
library, which was version 4.7.0. Parallel computation support was
enabled using the NVIDIA CUDA toolkit, version 11.5. Our object de-
tection framework employs Ultralytics YOLO as detailed in Jocher et al.
(2023). The implementation of our tracking-by-detection algorithm is
presented in Broström (2022).
Validation metrics. In evaluating the detection network, the pri-
mary metric adopted was the mean Average Precision (mAP). In
addition to mAP, we also assessed ancillary metrics, including GPU
memory occupation and total training duration under various parame-
ter configurations. To quantify the counting performance, we employed
metrics such as the adjusted coefficient of determination, denoted as
𝑅2
𝑎𝑑𝑗and the Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE). To enhance the scrutiny
of counting accuracy, both the Mean Absolute Error (MAE) and the
Mean Relative Error (MRE) were also computed. Furthermore, given
that our MultiMap maintains counting in real-time order, we also
evaluated the counting method in terms of average frames per second
(FPS).
Expert Systems With Applications 255 (2024) 124587 
7 

X. Zhou et al.
Table 2
An examination of different backbone networks, assessing their GPU memory allocation per epoch and their resultant mAP scores, all tests were conducted under a uniform batch
size of 16.
Backbone network
Parameter volume
Attention head
Memory usage
Training duration
mAP50
mAP50:95
YOLOv5s
7 027 720
–
4.69𝐺
0.375ℎ𝑟
0.836
0.459
YOLOv5s + CBAM
5 870 443
–
𝟒.𝟏𝟗𝐆
0.355ℎ𝑟
0.899
0.545
YOLOv5s + SA-Net
7 018 984
–
4.34𝐺
0.376ℎ𝑟
0.917
0.559
YOLOv5s + SimAM
7 203 848
–
4.67𝐺
0.393ℎ𝑟
0.854
0.476
YOLOv5s + ViT
7 018 984
4
4.75𝐺
0.389ℎ𝑟
0.878
0.505
YOLOv5s + ViT
7 018 984
8
4.87𝐺
0.397ℎ𝑟
0.883
0.515
YOLOv5s + ViT
7 018 984
16
4.97𝐺
0.400ℎ𝑟
𝟎.𝟗𝟐𝟗
𝟎.𝟓𝟔𝟑
YOLOv5s + Swin
7 153 904
8
4.71𝐺
0.377ℎ𝑟
0.860
0.478
YOLOv5s + Swin
7 155 704
16
4.75𝐺
0.385ℎ𝑟
0.904
0.560
YOLOv5s + Swin
7 159 304
32
4.95𝐺
0.403ℎ𝑟
0.880
0.536
3. Results and discussion
3.1. Method representation
In Fig. 7, we present the initial few frames in a random output of
our method. Although false negative instances might occur periodically
across video data frames, as exemplified by the red dashed bounding
box cases, the nature of our method significantly mitigates this issue:
it is uncommon for a detection network to consistently overlook an
object across all appeared frames. As evidenced in this figure, most false
negative detections from a particular frame are eventually detected and
integrated into the count in the previous or subsequent frames. For
example, the fifth ripe fruit, absent in the second frame, is taken into
account in subsequent frames in the third frame.
The primary challenge in employing native tracking algorithms
for counting tasks is illustrated in Fig. 9. Within complex application
contexts like ours, the issue of ID jumps becomes nearly inevitable.
The predominant sources of ID jumps arise from false positive detec-
tions and failures in the association between tracks and detections. To
provide a more intuitive demonstration of the ID jump issue, we focus
exclusively on the channel for the ripe fruit class. As depicted in Fig. 9a,
although only four ripe fruits are present in the image, StrongSORT pro-
duces Track IDs numbering up to eight. Importantly, this ID jump issue
is not unique to StrongSORT but pervades many mainstream tracking
algorithms. Our MultiMap function associates these Track IDs with an
internal counter, enabling our method to retrieve the corresponding
counting number and display it as shown in Fig. 9b.
3.2. Strawberry detection result
The default YOLOv5s is used as a baseline. The ninth convolutional
layer of YOLOv5s was substituted with the ViT and Swin Transformer
layers respectively, which possess varying numbers of attention heads.
The feature map of this ninth layer has dimensions of 20 × 20 and
consists of 1024 channels. This replacement strategy was motivated by
reducing the high computational demand inherent in attention mech-
anisms. We utilized the Adam optimizer with an initial learning rate
set at 10−3, running 300 epochs for each backbone network. The batch
size was set to 16, and the window size of the Swin Transformer was
set to 8. The confidence threshold and the non-maximum suppression
(NMS) IoU threshold were both set at 0.85. Given the inherent multiple
normalization layer of YOLOv5s, the Layer Normalization from both
the ViT and Swin Transformer layers was removed, resulting in slight
savings in computational resources and a minor improvement in model
accuracy (Ba et al., 2016; Ioffe & Szegedy, 2015).
As illustrated in Table 2, the incorporation of attention mechanisms
notably enhances detection performance across all networks when
compared to the default YOLOv5s baseline. Specifically, the integration
of YOLOv5s with CBAM and SA-Net modules has significantly improved
detection accuracy while reducing GPU memory consumption. In par-
ticular, mAP50 has achieved scores of 0.899 and 0.917, respectively,
for the integration of CBAM and SA-Net. In contrast, the improvement
in precision with mAP50 at 0.854 attributed to the integration of
SimAM has not been substantial in our context. Moreover, the ViT layer
with 16 attention heads produced superior results, registering mAP50
and mAP50:95 scores of 0.929 and 0.563, respectively. Importantly,
the integration of Swin Transformer with 16 attention heads yielded
impressive detection results, evidenced by mAP50 scores of 0.904 and
mAP50:95 scores of 0.560. Additionally, it proved to be more memory-
efficient, allocating 4.75G, in contrast to the 4.97G allocated by the
integration of ViT. However, increasing the number of attention heads
to 32 in the Swin Transformer led to a decrease in performance,
suggesting that the benefits of attention mechanisms are not strictly
linearly correlated with the number of heads. This may be attributable
to the greed of attention mechanism for a large volume of high-
quality labeled data; an excessive number of attention heads without a
corresponding increase in training data may, in fact, degrade network
performance.
Due to the opaque nature of deep learning models, we selectively
exhibit feature maps from various layers of the YOLOv5s + ViT model
to clarify and enhance the understanding of our deep learning appli-
cation in the strawberry detection task. By presenting these feature
maps as heatmaps, these maps enable us to discern which regions and
features the model prioritizes and assigns significance to during the
detection process. Additionally, Grad-CAM (Gradient-weighted Class
Activation Mapping) is used to highlight important regions in the input
image that influence the model’s predictions (Selvaraju et al., 2017).
As shown in Fig. 8, the figure includes a sample input image, Grad-
CAM result, and feature maps across different stages (0, 4, 8, 9, 12,
15) with layer Conv, C3, ViT, SPPF, Concat, and Upsample, providing a
comprehensive insight into the internal workings and decision-making
process of the model.
3.3. Strawberry counting result
To assess the scalability and effectiveness of our MultiMap algo-
rithm in counting tasks, we conducted experiments on DeepSORT,
ByteTrack, and StrongSORT, as presented in Table 3. Parameters 𝑛
and 𝑚were set to 3 and 15, respectively, while the IoU threshold
for tracking determined at 0.7. Our ground truth was established by
averaging the independent counts of two people. Given that native
tracking algorithms are not inherently designed for counting tasks and
do not offer functionality for distinct class counts, we aggregated the
total counts across both ripe and unripe classes and compared them
with the ground truth. Assuming that the final counting result for the
strawberries within the video is represented by the largest Track ID
obtained at the end of each run of the native tracking algorithms,
it is evident that the counting accuracy of DeepSORT, ByteTrack, or
StrongSORT is considerably low. However, with the integration of
our MultiMap algorithm, all three tracking algorithms exhibited a
substantial increase in counting accuracy. The MRE witnessed decreases
from 209.8% to 6.7%, 356.5% to 23.8%, and 110.1% to 10.0% for
DeepSORT, ByteTrack, and StrongSORT, respectively. Furthermore, in-
tegration with MultiMap not only led to a significant improvement in
Expert Systems With Applications 255 (2024) 124587 
8 

X. Zhou et al.
Fig. 8. To enhance human understanding and provide insights into the imagery analysis of strawberry farms, feature maps and a Grad-CAM result for the interpretation of a
single input image frame from the YOLOv5s + ViT model are demonstrated. The feature map selection involves the visualization of six distinct stages (Convolution, C3, ViT, SPPF,
Concat, Upsample) out of the total twenty-three stages of the network. At each selected stage, three feature maps are randomly chosen from the multitude of channels within each
specific layer.
Fig. 9. We present a side-by-side comparison of the outputs for the same frame generated by StrongSORT and MultiMap. For brevity, we only displayed the channel corresponding
to the ripe class. (a) depicts the StrongSORT output. (b) shows the MultiMap output. An example of the ID jump problem is evident in the StrongSORT output.
Table 3
A table demonstrates the effectiveness of the MultiMap function. Thirty data points under Ferme d’Hiver scenarios were examined. In the
regression equation, 𝑥denotes the method count, whereas 𝑦signifies the ground truth.
Method
FPS
Regression equation
𝑅2
𝑎𝑑𝑗
RMSE
MAE
MRE (%)
DeepSORT (Wojke et al., 2017)
23.7
𝑦= 0.18𝑥+ 81.75
0.61
458.1
394.7
209.8
DeepSORT + MultiMap
22.3
𝑦= 1.12𝑥−12.85
0.95
𝟏𝟕.𝟖
𝟏𝟐.𝟗
𝟔.𝟕
ByteTrack (Zhang, Sun et al., 2022)
39.8
𝑦= 0.09𝑥+ 107.48
0.59
865.8
699.9
356.5
ByteTrack + MultiMap
𝟑𝟕.𝟐
𝑦= 0.78𝑥+ 6.88
0.88
51.3
43.2
23.8
StrongSORT (Du et al., 2023)
26.4
𝑦= 0.45𝑥+ 11.38
0.77
214.2
201.0
110.2
StrongSORT + MultiMap
25.8
𝑦= 0.94𝑥−4.23
𝟎.𝟗𝟗
18.8
17.4
10.0
MRE, but also manifested enhancements in the adjusted coefficient of
determination 𝑅2
𝑎𝑑𝑗, RMSE and MAE.
In the analysis, integration with DeepSORT witnessed the highest
counting accuracy of 6.7% MRE observed among all online count-
ings, while integration with StrongSORT also demonstrated promising
performance, achieving an online counting MRE of 10.0%. Without
any parameter fine-tuning, the counting results of ByteTrack were
not optimal. However, in terms of data processing speed, ByteTrack
demonstrated significant potential, achieving an average of 37 FPS.
Upon further investigation, ByteTrack and its variants might possess
substantial promise for tasks necessitating high responsiveness. To
provide a more nuanced understanding, the distribution of the data
along with the respective regression lines for three trackers integrated
with MultiMap is represented in Fig. 10. When considering counting
accuracy, data correlation and processing speed, the integration of
MultiMap with DeepSORT and StrongSORT constitutes viable solutions
for real-time counting tasks in sophisticated agricultural applications.
Expert Systems With Applications 255 (2024) 124587 
9 

X. Zhou et al.
Table 4
Utilizing video data collected from two farms, forty data points in total, we conducted an analysis of the MultiMap algorithm based on DeepSORT
and StrongSORT, evaluating its online counting accuracy for both ripe and unripe fruit classes.
Method
Class
Regression equation
𝑅2
𝑎𝑑𝑗
RMSE
MAE
MRE (%)
DeepSORT + MultiMap
Ripe
𝑦= 1.08𝑥−0.89
0.94
𝟓.𝟗
𝟒.𝟒
𝟖.𝟕
Unripe
𝑦= 1.15𝑥−17.37
0.94
16.1
12.4
10.4
StrongSORT + MultiMap
Ripe
𝑦= 0.90𝑥+ 1.17
𝟎.𝟗𝟕
5.8
4.9
9.9
Unripe
𝑦= 0.93𝑥−0.90
𝟎.𝟗𝟗
𝟏𝟑.𝟎
𝟏𝟏.𝟓
𝟗.𝟗
Fig. 10. A visualization of the results obtained from three prevalent tracking algorithms
when integrated with MultiMap.
Following a preliminary evaluation of the efficacy of our MultiMap
algorithm in three trackers, we decided to delve deeper into the
integration of MultiMap with DeepSORT and StrongSORT. We were
particularly interested in the counting accuracy for both ripe and unripe
fruit classes. Using video datasets obtained from two different farms,
our data analysis is cataloged in Table 4 and portrayed in Fig. 11. Over-
all, the counting performance for ripe fruits was slightly better than for
unripe fruits, as expected. As articulated in the table, integration with
DeepSORT achieves the best counting accuracy for ripe fruits with an
error rate of 8.7%. In contrast, integration with StrongSORT manifests
the best counting accuracy for unripe fruits with an error rate of 9.9%.
On examining the figure, the results of DeepSORT integration exhibit
a greater degree of discreteness in comparison to that of StrongSORT
integration. This finding is consistent with the table, where DeepSORT
integration’s adjusted 𝑅2 value is demonstrably lower. While the inte-
gration with DeepSORT may exhibit a lower error rate, the discreteness
of its data points compromises its reliability in applications. This is
significant when considering the potential calibration of the method
results during the post-processing stage, where higher 𝑅2
𝑎𝑑𝑗values are
particularly desirable.
3.4. Discussion
Advantages. Our method improves on the common practice of
adding a window overlay to tracking algorithms to fix counting prob-
lems (Shen et al., 2023). Ours delves into the foundational structure
of the tracking algorithms to pull out the counting information, which
is then shown to the user. The method proposed in this study is
characterized by several distinctive advantages. In terms of scalability,
it is adaptive to accept inputs as elementary as videos captured with a
smartphone. By harnessing the intrinsic multiclass attributes of tracking
algorithms, we have addressed multiclass counting challenges, allowing
object counting within distinct classes. The implementation of our
MultiMap algorithm introduces a minimum computational overhead,
maintaining its real-time capability. A comprehensive theoretical discus-
sion emphasizing its robustness to occlusions can be found in Section 2.5.
The representation of the output facilitates user-end verifiability by
displaying the counting information next to the bounding boxes of the
strawberry fruit objects.
Limitations and future works. We have successfully addressed the
problem of innate ID jump in counting, but the problem of ID switch
inherent in the tracking algorithms remains a primary source of error
in our approach. To better cater to real-world application needs, there
remains a large room for refinement from both the theoretical and prac-
tical perspectives. Theoretically, we have yet to initialize the velocity
for our Kalman filters, while prior knowledge about the motion speed
of the camera can result in improved tracking performance. Moreover,
rather than using default ReID models (Zheng et al., 2019), a cus-
tomized strawberry feature extractor may capture more information on
strawberry appearance so that further improves tracking performance
in association. Practically, comparing data collection via smartphones
that introduces inevitable jittering and intermittent defocusing issues,
cameras mounted on unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) platforms usually
source steadier video footage in given motion speeds, thereby enhanc-
ing the counting accuracy. Lastly, although our method was validated
only within our strawberry farm contexts, our method can be extended
to more generalized scenarios with minimal adaptations. Furthermore,
our work does not differentiate in counting between target and non-
target rows in the current phase. In practical applications, it is possible
to adjust the camera’s focal length and the distance from the plants, as
well as employ data preprocessing methods such as cropping, to ensure
that the field of view encompasses only the target row. In response to
the practical needs of applications, we will incorporate a module to
distinguish between foreground and background in our future work.
4. Conclusion
Our method effectively formulates tracking algorithms into counting
algorithms. The multiclass strawberry detection network we trained
attained optimal detection accuracy, with mAP50 and mAP50:95 scores
registering at 0.929 and 0.563, respectively. The effectiveness of our
developed MultiMap algorithm is demonstrated by the significant re-
duction in error rate from 209.8% to 6.7%, 356.5% to 23.8% and
110.2% to 10.0%, when integrated with different tracking algorithms.
Regardless of the class of ripe and unripe, the synergy between Deep-
SORT and MultiMap achieved the highest counting accuracy with
an error margin of 6.7%. Specifically, the DeepSORT and MultiMap
combination achieves the best counting accuracy for ripe fruits with an
error rate of 8.7%, whereas the StrongSORT and MultiMap combination
manifests the best counting accuracy for unripe fruits with an error rate
of 9.9%. After MultiMap integration, execution speeds are maintained
at 22 FPS for DeepSORT, 25 FPS for StrongSORT, and 37 FPS for Byte-
Track. To summarize, our method is proficient in addressing real-time
counting challenges that are robust to occlusions in modern strawberry
farms.
Expert Systems With Applications 255 (2024) 124587 
10 

X. Zhou et al.
Fig. 11. This figure visualizes the data points referenced in Table 4. (a) DeepSORT + MultiMap. (b) StrongSORT + MultiMap.
CRediT authorship contribution statement
Xuehai Zhou: Developed the methods, Wrote and optimized the
code, Conducted examinations, Collected video data from Ferme
d’Hiver and Ferme Gush, Led the paper writing. Yuyang Zhang:
Collected training data for the detection model, Trained detection
networks, Performed network examinations. Xintong Jiang: Provided
preliminary data collected from the Ferme Gush and suggestions on
method development. Kashif Riaz: As the Director of Smart Farming
and Chief Agronomist of Ferme d’Hiver Technologies (FHT), he pro-
vided invaluable expertise, guidance, and access to the infrastructure
necessary for video data collection. Phil Rosenbaum: As the cofounder
of Ferme Gush, he played a pivotal role in facilitating video data
collection at Ferme Gush. Mark Lefsrud: As a member of the commit-
tee board, he offered co-supervision guidance, Resource reallocation.
Shangpeng Sun: As Principal Investigator, he provided supervision
advice on manuscript revision, and general direction for the project.
Declaration of competing interest
The authors declare the following financial interests/personal rela-
tionships which may be considered as potential competing interests:
Shangpeng Sun reports financial support was provided by Weston Fam-
ily Foundation. Shangpeng Sun reports financial support was provided
by FRQNT. If there are other authors, they declare that they have
no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that
could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.
Data availability
Data will be made available on request.
Acknowledgments
This work was supported by Weston Family Foundation the
Homegrown Innovation Challenge-Spark Award project (SA-10258)
and FRQNT & MAPAQ Partnership Research Program-Sustainable
Agriculture (259806).
References
Ba, J. L., Kiros, J. R., & Hinton, G. E. (2016). Layer normalization. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1607.06450.
Bahdanau, D., Cho, K., & Bengio, Y. (2014). Neural machine translation by jointly
learning to align and translate. arXiv preprint arXiv:1409.0473.
Bewley, A., Ge, Z., Ott, L., Ramos, F., & Upcroft, B. (2016). Simple online and
realtime tracking. In 2016 IEEE international conference on image processing (ICIP)
(pp. 3464–3468). IEEE.
Broström,
M.
(2022).
Real-time
multi-object
tracker.
https://github.com/mikel-
brostrom/yolo_tracking/releases/tag/v8.0, GitHub repository.
Crouse, D. F. (2016). On implementing 2D rectangular assignment algorithms. IEEE
Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems, 52(4), 1679–1696. http://dx.doi.
org/10.1109/TAES.2016.140952.
Cui, J., Zheng, H., Zeng, Z., Yang, Y., Ma, R., Tian, Y., Tan, J., Feng, X., & Qi, L. (2023).
Real-time missing seedling counting in paddy fields based on lightweight network
and tracking-by-detection algorithm. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 212,
Article 108045.
Dosovitskiy, A., Beyer, L., Kolesnikov, A., Weissenborn, D., Zhai, X., Unterthiner, T.,
Dehghani, M., Minderer, M., Heigold, G., & Gelly, S. (2020). An image is worth
16x16 words: Transformers for image recognition at scale. arXiv preprint arXiv:
2010.11929.
Du, Y., Wan, J., Zhao, Y., Zhang, B., Tong, Z., & Dong, J. (2021). Giaotracker:
A comprehensive framework for mcmot with global information and optimizing
strategies in visdrone 2021. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF international conference
on computer vision (CVPR) (pp. 2809–2819).
Du, Y., Zhao, Z., Song, Y., Zhao, Y., Su, F., Gong, T., & Meng, H. (2023). Strongsort:
Make deepsort great again. IEEE Transactions on Multimedia.
Gao, F., Fang, W., Sun, X., Wu, Z., Zhao, G., Li, G., Li, R., Fu, L., & Zhang, Q. (2022).
A novel apple fruit detection and counting methodology based on deep learning
and trunk tracking in modern orchard. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 197,
Article 107000.
Ghosal, S., Zheng, B., Chapman, S. C., Potgieter, A. B., Jordan, D. R., Wang, X., Singh, A.
K., Singh, A., Hirafuji, M., & Ninomiya, S. (2019). A weakly supervised deep
learning framework for sorghum head detection and counting. Plant Phenomics.
Ioffe, S., & Szegedy, C. (2015). Batch normalization: Accelerating deep network training
by reducing internal covariate shift. In International conference on machine learning
(pp. 448–456). pmlr.
James, C., Smith, D., He, W., Chandra, S. S., & Chapman, S. C. (2024). GrainPoint-
Net: A deep-learning framework for non-invasive sorghum panicle grain count
phenotyping. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 217, Article 108485.
Jiang, Y., Li, C., Paterson, A. H., & Robertson, J. S. (2019). DeepSeedling: Deep
convolutional network and Kalman filter for plant seedling detection and counting
in the field. Plant Methods, 15(1), 141.
Jocher, G., Chaurasia, A., & Qiu, J. (2023). YOLO by ultralytics. URL: https://github.
com/ultralytics/ultralytics, GitHub repository.
Liu, Z., Lin, Y., Cao, Y., Hu, H., Wei, Y., Zhang, Z., Lin, S., & Guo, B. (2021). Swin trans-
former: Hierarchical vision transformer using shifted windows. In Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF international conference on computer vision (CVPR) (pp. 10012–10022).
Expert Systems With Applications 255 (2024) 124587 
11 

X. Zhou et al.
Liu, S., Qi, L., Qin, H., Shi, J., & Jia, J. (2018). Path aggregation network for instance
segmentation. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition (pp. 8759–8768).
Luo, W., Xing, J., Milan, A., Zhang, X., Liu, W., & Kim, T.-K. (2021). Multiple object
tracking: A literature review. Artificial Intelligence, 293, Article 103448.
Milan, A., Leal-Taixé, L., Reid, I., Roth, S., & Schindler, K. (2016). MOT16: A benchmark
for multi-object tracking. arXiv preprint arXiv:1603.00831.
Redmon, J., Divvala, S., Girshick, R., & Farhadi, A. (2016). You only look once: Unified,
real-time object detection. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision
and pattern recognition (CVPR) (pp. 779–788).
Ren, S., He, K., Girshick, R., & Sun, J. (2015). Faster r-cnn: Towards real-time object
detection with region proposal networks. Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems (NeurIPS), 28.
Rong, J., Zhou, H., Zhang, F., Yuan, T., & Wang, P. (2023). Tomato cluster detection
and counting using improved YOLOv5 based on RGB-D fusion. Computers and
Electronics in Agriculture, 207, Article 107741.
Selvaraju, R. R., Cogswell, M., Das, A., Vedantam, R., Parikh, D., & Batra, D. (2017).
Grad-cam: Visual explanations from deep networks via gradient-based localization.
In Proceedings of the IEEE international conference on computer vision (pp. 618–626).
Shen, L., Su, J., He, R., Song, L., Huang, R., Fang, Y., Song, Y., & Su, B. (2023). Real-
time tracking and counting of grape clusters in the field based on channel pruning
with YOLOv5s. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 206, Article 107662.
Shorten, C., & Khoshgoftaar, T. M. (2019). A survey on image data augmentation for
deep learning. Journal of Big Data, 6(1), 1–48.
Sun, S., Li, C., Chee, P. W., Paterson, A. H., Jiang, Y., Xu, R., Robertson, J. S.,
Adhikari, J., & Shehzad, T. (2020). Three-dimensional photogrammetric mapping
of cotton bolls in situ based on point cloud segmentation and clustering. ISPRS
Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, 160, 195–207.
Van Delden, S., SharathKumar, M., Butturini, M., Graamans, L., Heuvelink, E.,
Kacira, M., Kaiser, E., Klamer, R., Klerkx, L., & Kootstra, G. (2021). Current status
and future challenges in implementing and upscaling vertical farming systems.
Nature Food, 2(12), 944–956.
Wojke, N., Bewley, A., & Paulus, D. (2017). Simple online and realtime tracking with
a deep association metric. In 2017 IEEE international conference on image processing
(ICIP) (pp. 3645–3649). IEEE, http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ICIP.2017.8296962.
Wolfert, S., Ge, L., Verdouw, C., & Bogaardt, M.-J. (2017). Big data in smart farming-a
review. Agricultural Systems, 153, 69–80.
Woo, S., Park, J., Lee, J.-Y., & Kweon, I. S. (2018). Cbam: Convolutional block attention
module. In Proceedings of the European conference on computer vision (pp. 3–19).
Wu, Z., Sun, X., Jiang, H., Gao, F., Li, R., Fu, L., Zhang, D., & Fountas, S. (2023). Twice
matched fruit counting system: An automatic fruit counting pipeline in modern
apple orchard using mutual and secondary matches. Biosystems Engineering, 234,
140–155.
Wu, Z., Sun, X., Jiang, H., Mao, W., Li, R., Andriyanov, N., Soloviev, V., & Fu, L.
(2023). NDMFCS: An automatic fruit counting system in modern apple orchard
using abatement of abnormal fruit detection. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture,
211, Article 108036.
Yang, H., Chang, F., Huang, Y., Xu, M., Zhao, Y., Ma, L., & Su, H. (2022). Multi-object
tracking using deep SORT and modified CenterNet in cotton seedling counting.
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 202, Article 107339.
Yang, L., Zhang, R.-Y., Li, L., & Xie, X. (2021). Simam: A simple, parameter-free
attention module for convolutional neural networks. In International conference on
machine learning (pp. 11863–11874). PMLR.
Zhang, Y., Sun, P., Jiang, Y., Yu, D., Weng, F., Yuan, Z., Luo, P., Liu, W., & Wang, X.
(2022). ByteTrack: Multi-object tracking by associating every detection box. In
Proceedings of the European conference on computer vision (ECCV) (pp. 1–21).
Zhang, Q.-L., & Yang, Y.-B. (2021). Sa-net: Shuffle attention for deep convolutional
neural networks. In ICASSP 2021-2021 IEEE international conference on acoustics,
speech and signal processing (pp. 2235–2239). IEEE.
Zhang, Y., Zhang, W., Yu, J., He, L., Chen, J., & He, Y. (2022). Complete and accurate
holly fruits counting using YOLOX object detection. Computers and Electronics in
Agriculture, 198, Article 107062.
Zhao, J., Kaga, A., Yamada, T., Komatsu, K., Hirata, K., Kikuchi, A., Hirafuji, M.,
Ninomiya, S., & Guo, W. (2023). Improved field-based soybean seed counting and
localization with feature level considered. Plant Phenomics, 5, 0026.
Zheng, Z., Hu, Y., Guo, T., Qiao, Y., He, Y., Zhang, Y., & Huang, Y. (2023). AGHRNet:
An attention ghost-HRNet for confirmation of catch-and-shake locations in jujube
fruits vibration harvesting. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 210, Article
107921.
Zheng, Z., Yang, X., Yu, Z., Zheng, L., Yang, Y., & Kautz, J. (2019). Joint discriminative
and generative learning for person re-identification. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
conference on computer vision and pattern recognition (pp. 2138–2147).
Zhou, X., Zhang, Y., Sun, S., & Rosenbaum, P. (2023). A dynamic object counting
method for strawberry fruits using vision transformer networks and Kalman
filter tracking. In ASABE annual international meeting (p. 1). American Society of
Agricultural and Biological Engineers.
Expert Systems With Applications 255 (2024) 124587 
12 
