arXiv:2012.13721v1  [cs.CV]  26 Dec 2020
ASSIGNING APPLES TO INDIVIDUAL TREES IN DENSE
ORCHARDS USING 3D COLOR POINT CLOUDS
A PREPRINT
Mouad Zine-El-Abidine
Laboratoire Angevin de Recherche en Ingénierie des Systèmes (LARIS)
Université d’Angers
Angers, France
Helin Dutagaci
Department of Electrical-Electronics Engineering
Eskisehir Osmangazi University
Eskisehir, Turkey
hdutagaci@ogu.edu.tr
Gilles Galopin
INRAe, UMR1345
Institut de Recherche en Horticulture et Semences
Angers, France
David Rousseau
Laboratoire Angevin de Recherche en Ingénierie des Systèmes (LARIS)
Université d’Angers
Angers, France
david.rousseau@univ-angers.fr
December 29, 2020
ABSTRACT
We propose a 3D color point cloud processing pipeline to count apples on individual apple trees in
trellis structured orchards. Fruit counting at the tree level requires separating trees, which is challeng-
ing in dense orchards. We employ point clouds acquired from the leaf-off orchard in winter period,
where the branch structure is visible, to delineate tree crowns. We localize apples in point clouds ac-
quired in harvest period. Alignment of the two point clouds enables mapping apple locations to the
delineated winter cloud and assigning each apple to its bearing tree. Our apple assignment method
achieves an accuracy rate higher than 95%. In addition to presenting a ﬁrst proof of feasibility, we
also provide suggestions for further improvement on our apple assignment pipeline.
Keywords Fruit detection · Apple detection · Apple trees · Tree trunk detection · Point Cloud · Semantic
segmentation · Phenotyping
1
Introduction
Apple yield is an important trait for both orchard management and variety testing of apple trees. Manual fruit counting
is usually conducted by sampling a ﬁxed percentage (e.g. 5 or 10%) of trees randomly or systematically and extrap-
olating the counts on these trees for total yield estimation of the entire orchard [1]. This sampling and extrapolation
process, in addition to being time-consuming and labor-intensive, does not always produce the desired precision of
yield estimation. Computer vision techniques, on the other hand, provide a faster and more accurate alternative to
manual counting of fruits [2].
While the majority of computer vision techniques for fruit counting relied on RGB (Red, Green, Blue) images, other
types of data including RGB-Depth images [3–8], spectral images [9], thermal images [10–14] images or LiDAR
(Light Detection and Ranging) data [15] have also been used. In traditional approaches for fruit detection through

A PREPRINT - DECEMBER 29, 2020
Figure 1: Apple detection algorithms usually estimate the cumulative apple count from the harvest season. Our aim
is to count the number of apples on each individual tree. The main idea is to register the 3D model from the harvest
period (a) with the delineated 3D model from the winter period (c) to align the branches with the detected apples (d).
We assign a different label to each delineated tree as an output of the automatic tree separation algorithm we perform
on the winter model (c). Finally the detected apples from the harvest model are mapped to their closest branches, and
membership of each apple to an individual tree is determined (e).
such sensor information, relevant information is extracted from each data instance separately according to a manually
predeﬁned algorithm. The representative quantitative information obtained in this manner is generally referred to
as a hand-crafted feature. Hand-crafted approaches can involve techniques such as color thresholding, color space
clustering, shape analysis, blob detection, circular Hough transform, Ncut algorithm, employment of Histogram of
Oriented Gradients (HOG), Local Binary Patterns (LBP) and Upright Speeded Up Robust Features (U-SURF) for
separating fruits from the canopy [4, 5, 16–29]. Recently, deep learning methods have become commonplace for fruit
detection and counting [3, 6, 8, 14, 30–39]. Deep neural networks are employed to learn predictors from a set of
training data through optimizing the parameters of feature extraction and localization of fruits simultaneously. After
prediction, further processing, such as circular Hough transform and watershed transform [21] for veriﬁcation and
ﬁltering of multiple counts through 3D (3-Dimensional) reconstruction [19, 35, 40] can be applied to extract the ﬁnal
fruit count.
The main objective of most fruit counting methods is to estimate the total number of observable fruits in the sensed
data [8, 19, 21, 31–35, 37, 40]. The fruits are not mapped to their bearing trees; i.e. the number of fruits on each
tree is not computed. Examples to applications that will beneﬁt from fruit counting on individual trees are precise
yield mapping at tree scale, management of individual trees to maximize uniformity within the orchard, and individual
tree-based analysis in variety testing experiments.
2

A PREPRINT - DECEMBER 29, 2020
Estimation of fruit count on each tree requires separating individual trees and identifying which tree each detected
fruit belongs to (tree membership of the fruit). Individual tree delineation is the process of separating individual trees,
including trunk detection and crown boundary delineation; i.e. identifying the trunk and branches belonging to a
single tree [41]. Delineation of trees in dense orchards or forests is a challenging task due to interlacing and touching
branches of adjacent trees, particularly when there is high variation among the trees in terms of crown size and shape
[41]. Occlusion caused by dense leaf cover during harvest period further complicates the delineation of trees. Using
leaf-off data collected during winter can alleviate the occlusion and facilitate the capture of trunk and branch geometry
[42, 43].
The architectural structure that determines the connectivity of the branches to a particular tree trunk becomes ambigu-
ous in 2D images, even during winter period. 2D projection causes loss of shape and connectivity information of the
branches of neighboring trees. Processing 3D point clouds is more adequate for our application since 3D data enables
a detailed analysis of the geometric structure of trees and localization of branches and fruits in the 3D world.
Furthermore, acquiring 3D information of the trees in the orchards facilitates a number of applications in precision
agriculture, robotic agriculture, and phenotyping. These applications include robotic crop harvesting [7, 38, 44, 45],
automated pruning [46, 47], monitoring pruning operations [48], and 3D visualization tools to guide the agronomists
[49]. Accurate measurements of morphological traits such as canopy volume, branch dimensions and leaf area from
already available 3D models are essential for phenotyping experiments and productivity assessment [50–52].
Computer vision techniques aiding management of fruit orchards range from complete processing pipelines to algo-
rithms performing single tasks such as tree localization [46, 52–59]. A vision system was developed by [52] to recon-
struct 3D fruit trees and identify branch structure and traits for automatic pruning. In [53] an automatic trunk-detection
system using an infrared sensor was introduced. Medeiros et al. [46] employed a laser sensor to model dormant fruit
trees and identify primary branches for automatic pruning. In [54] Regions-Convolutional Neural Network (R-CNN)
was applied on depth images for detection of branches of apple trees and localization of shaking points to guide a
harvesting machine. Zeng et al. [55] developed an algorithm to segment trellis wires, support poles, and tree trunks in
sparse LiDAR point clouds acquired from trellis-structured apple orchards. In order to optimize the mechanization of
fruitlet and blossom thinning, Nielsen et al. [56] used LiDAR and stereo vision together for obtaining 3D models of
orchard rows of trees. They ﬁtted mixtures of Gaussians to the point cloud to cluster the trees into Gaussian shaped
cylinders. In [57], LiDAR data was used for individual tree separation through a hidden semi-Markov model. Their
objective was to develop a pipeline for building detailed orchard maps and an algorithm to match subsequent LiDAR
tree scans to the prior database, enabling correct data association for precision agricultural applications. In [58], a
procedure for segmenting canopy to individual trees was proposed. The procedure involved octree construction, clus-
tering, trunk detection and Ncut segmentation. 3D data was obtained with terrestrial laser scanning (TLS) and mobile
laser scanning (MLS). In [59], a tree trunk detection pipeline was proposed for identifying individual trees in a trellis
structured apple orchard, using ground-based LiDAR and image data. Hough transformation was performed on 3D
point cloud to search for trunk candidates. These candidates were projected into the camera images, where pixel-wise
classiﬁcation was used to update their likelihood of being a tree trunk. Detection was achieved by using a hidden
semi-Markov model to leverage from the contextual information provided by the repetitive structure of the orchard.
The objective of this work is to delineate apple trees in a trellis structured orchard and count the number of apples
on each individual tree (Fig. 1). To the best of our knowledge, this problem was not addressed before in previous
works dealing with apple detection and counting. Our strategy is to reconstruct 3D models of the same set of trees
twice a year, once during the winter period and once during the harvest period. We perform delineation of individual
trees on the leaf-off model from winter, which we refer to as winter point cloud. We detect tree trunks and identify
the branches connected to them using winter point cloud. We employ the 3D model from the harvest period, which
we call harvest point cloud, to localize apples. We determine the tree-membership of each apple in the harvest point
cloud by mapping their locations onto the winter point cloud, where individual trees are separated. This approach of
registering data from two different time instances for fruit counting is another novelty we introduce to the ﬁeld. We
also propose the use of a known calibration object to facilitate the registration of two point clouds and to recover the
true metric sizes of the important structures in the scenes.
The main contributions of this study are:
• Addressing the problem of apple counting on individual trees from 3D color point clouds.
• As a way to map detected apples to individual trees, alignment of harvest point cloud to the winter point
cloud, where individual trees are automatically delineated.
• A complete pipeline for detecting and removing trellis wires and support poles, detecting tree trunks and
delineating crowns of individual trees in winter point clouds.
3

A PREPRINT - DECEMBER 29, 2020
• The use of a calibration object for correct scaling and alignment of point clouds acquired in different time
instances.
2
Materials and Methods
We developed a point cloud processing pipeline (Fig. 2) in order to locate and count apples on individual trees. We use
a color camera for capturing images of target trees in the orchard from multiple views during both winter and harvest
periods (Fig. 2 (a)). These images are processed by a structure from motion algorithm to reconstruct winter and point
clouds. The two point clouds are prepared for initial alignment which we refer to as calibration of point clouds (Fig.
2 (b)). A novelty of our pipeline is the use of a ColorChecker during acquisition. The ColorChecker serves both as a
reference for removal of irrelevant background information and as a calibration tool. Calibration of the point cloud, in
our case, involves 1) re-scaling the point cloud to the correct metric scale, 2) orienting the point cloud to a canonical
reference frame, 3) extraction of region of interest, and 4) re-centering the point cloud to a predetermined position.
The estimated scale allows us to impose metric parameters on the pipeline such as range of separation between trees,
separation between trellis wires, diameter of trellis wires, diameter of tree trunks, the expected pole diameter and
height, etc. The orientation and re-centering facilitate trellis wire removal, tree trunk detection, and delineation of tree
crowns (Fig. 2 (d)). The calibration of both harvest and winter point clouds is also crucial for their correct registration
(Fig. 2 (c)). We employ a color-based apple detection algorithm to locate the apples in the harvest point cloud (Fig. 2
(e)). Finally, we map the detected apples onto the winter cloud via distance calculation to assign them to their bearing
trees. We give detailed explanations of each module of our pipeline in the following subsections.
Figure 2: Pipeline proposed to assign apples to individual trees. (a) Image acquisition of apple trees in winter and
harvest period. (b) Calibration of 3D models and extraction of region of interest. (c) Registration of calibrated models
from winter and harvest period. (d) Separation of individual trees in winter point cloud. (e) Apple detection from
harvest point cloud. (f) Distance map to assign apples to individual segmented trees.
2.1
Experimental Field
The experiments were conducted in a dense apple orchard, dedicated to variety testing at INRAe-Angers (latitude:
47.48226◦N, longitude: 0.6152◦E) in France. The orchard was composed of 4 years old apple trees organized in
I-trellis structure with support poles. Our target trees were arranged in a row, where each tree was a mutant, being
tested to be established as a new apple variety. The spacing between trees was 1m in average and the height of the
trees ranged from 1 to 3m. The variation of the crown shape among the trees was high.
2.2
Data acquisition and 3D reconstruction
Fig. 3 illustrates the data acquisition and point cloud calibration processes of our pipeline, corresponding to the
modules (a) and (b) in Fig. 2. We obtained 3D color point clouds of seven scenes from the orchard through a multi-
view reconstruction process. A scene, in our study, refers to part of an orchard row; i.e. a set of adjacent trees in the
same row. Each scene contained 4 to 5 apple trees in our experiments, although our algorithm is capable of processing
an entire orchard row. The number of trees in each scene is given in Table 1.
A 3D color point cloud (or a 3D RGB point cloud) PC is a set of 3D points, where each point is represented by its
coordinates (x, y, z) and its color (R, G, B). Here, (R, G, B) refers to the values of red, green and blue channels.
4

A PREPRINT - DECEMBER 29, 2020
Figure 3: Data acquisition and point cloud calibration modules corresponding to (a) and (b) in Fig. 2. (a) Multi-view image acquisition. (b) Apple orchard images
acquired in winter and harvest periods. (c) 3D color point cloud reconstructions (PCw and PCh) of orchard scenes with zoom on the ColorChecker. (d) 3D color
point clouds after calibration and extraction of region of interest (PCC
w and PCC
h ). See Supplementary Material A for details of the calibration process.
5

A PREPRINT - DECEMBER 29, 2020
Table 1: Number of trees in the scenes and number of images acquired in winter and harvest periods.
# trees
# images (winter)
# images (harvest)
Scene 1
5
236
364
Scene 2
5
189
382
Scene 3
5
221
380
Scene 4
4
183
374
Scene 5
5
206
380
Scene 6
4
199
376
Scene 7
4
227
376
We captured multiple RGB images of size 3000 × 4000 pixels, of a scene with a color camera (Fujiﬁlm X20, Fujiﬁlm
Corporation, Tokyo, Japan) in both winter and harvest periods to reconstruct the point clouds. We acquired images
from only one side of the orchard row; although it is possible to follow the procedure proposed in [60] to reconstruct
and register two sides of a row. Table 1 lists the number of images used for 3D reconstruction of the scenes from
winter and harvest periods. The viewpoints and viewing angles (i.e. camera positions and orientations) were randomly
chosen to get visual information covering the entire scene. In this study, we captured the images manually; however,
this process can also be performed by a land robot equipped with multiple cameras.
The multi-view images were used to reconstruct 3D color point clouds of the scenes through VisualSFM [61, 62]
and PMVS/CMVS tool [63, 64]. VisualSFM is a freely available software [61, 62] that performs Structure from
Motion (SfM) to estimate unknown camera locations and orientations. It provides a sparse point cloud of the scene
through keypoint matching and triangulation. In order to obtain a dense point cloud, we used PMVS/CMVS tool,
another freely-available software [63, 64]. This tool takes as input the images and the camera parameters computed
by VisualSFM and provides a dense reconstruction of the scene through multi-view stereo. For introductory and in-
depth information on the techniques of SfM and multi-view stereo, we refer the reader to the textbook of Hartley and
Zisserman [65].
Before capturing the images of each scene, we installed a calibration object (ColorChecker Passport Photo 2, X-rite,
Great Lakes, Midwestern US) mounted on a tripod stick at a known position. We placed the tripod stick in front of
the trees facing the camera, such that the ColorChecker pattern is almost parallel to the tree row Fig. 2 (b). When
the ColorChecker stick was installed, we manually measured two distances with a tape measure: dcc
R : the minimum
distance of the tripod stick to the tree row, and dcc
T : the distance to a designated target tree. These values are necessary
for the calibration process of the point clouds.
The reconstructed harvest point cloud and winter point cloud of a scene are referred to as PCh and PCw respectively.
Point clouds of a sample scene are given in Fig. 3 (c) with the ColorChecker objects zoomed in.
2.3
Calibration and Extraction of Region of Interest
The calibration of the point clouds from harvest and winter periods provides an initial alignment, which is fundamental
for the success of the registration of the two point clouds. Having the point cloud with the accurate scale also enables
us to ﬁx parameters, such as trunk diameter, tree height, separation between trees, according to the range of expected
metric sizes of the structures in the scene.
The ColorChecker is usually employed as a color reference to obtain accurate colors from images under varying
lighting conditions [66]. In this work, we do not use the ColorChecker for this purpose. Instead, we use it as a distinct
reference pattern to geometrically calibrate the raw point clouds. We developed an algorithm for automatic detection
of the ColorChecker, together with the tripod stick it is mounted on, from 3D color point clouds. The description of
this algorithm can be found in Supplementary Material A. The 3D locations of the centers of the color patches of the
ColorChecker chart are used to guide the calibration of the point cloud.
The geometric calibration process takes as input the harvest and winter point clouds (PCh and PCw) and produces
the calibrated point clouds (PCC
h and PCC
w ), as shown in Fig. 3 (d). The details of the calibration process are given
in Supplementary Material A. In summary, the calibration process consists of 1) estimation of the true scale and re-
scaling the point cloud; 2) re-deﬁning a canonical reference frame and rotating the point cloud to this new frame; 3)
extraction of region of interest, which corresponds to the set of trees just behind the ColorChecker; and 4) moving the
origin of the reference frame to the base of the designated tree. The canonical reference frame is deﬁned such that
Y-axis is parallel to the tree row and Z-axis is orthogonal to the ground.
6

A PREPRINT - DECEMBER 29, 2020
2.4
Separation of Individual Trees
In this section, we describe the procedure to separate the trees from each other in the winter scenes. This procedure
involves localization of target tree trunks, ﬁnding the points on the tree trunks, detecting and removing trellis wires, the
water pipe, and the support poles. After the trees are localized and irrelevant points are removed, the tree membership
of all the remaining points are determined.
Let the number of points in the calibrated winter point cloud PCC
w = {p1, p2, ..., pNW } be NW . We aim to map each
point pi to a semantic label γi, i = 1, 2, ..., NW where γi ∈Γ. Γ is the set of four semantic labels: Γ = { "Tree trunk",
"Branch", "Trellis wire+Water pipe", "Support pole"}. The process of automatically labeling the points in the cloud
with one of these four classes is called semantic segmentation of the scene. The rationale for a semantic segmentation
stage is to remove irrelevant structures and to eliminate the connectivity between adjacent trees caused by trellis wires
and the water pipe.
In conjunction with semantic segmentation, we also detect trees in the scene and locate their trunks. Let the set of
veriﬁed trees in the scene be denoted as T . Each tree Tj in T is represented by its tree identity tj ∈{1, 2, ..., Ntrees}
and its location Lj, for j = 1, 2, ..., Ntrees. The location of a tree corresponds to the coordinates of its base Lj =
(xj, yj, zj), j = 1, 2, ..., Ntrees measured in the canonical reference frame.
After removing the irrelevant structures (trellis wires, water pipe and support pole) we delineate the trees in the winter
point cloud. The ﬁnal output of the tree separation algorithm is the assignment of each trunk and branch point in the
calibrated winter point cloud PCC
w to one of the trees in the set T .
2.4.1
Detection of trellis wires and tree trunks
The procedure for detecting points on trellis wires is based-on estimation of the trellis-plane and the trellis-lines along
the trellis wires and operating on the points close to these estimates. Candidate trunk locations are detected along
the trellis-plane based on point density. The points in a cylindrical region along each candidate location is separately
skeletonized. The skeleton and the points surrounding it are examined to verify tree trunk position and to detect the
presence of a supporting pole. 3D points belonging to the trunk of each individual tree and support pole are identiﬁed
and labeled. Regions between tree trunks along the initial line estimates are re-examined through 3D line ﬁtting to
increase the precision of the detection and removal of the points that belong to the trellis wires. The steps of the
procedure are shown in Fig. 4 and detailed below:
Step 1: Voxelization The calibrated winter point cloud PCC
w is converted to binary volumetric form, where a voxel
takes the value 1 if the voxel is occupied by the points in PCC
w . Speciﬁcally, we ﬁt a regular 3D grid to the bounding
box deﬁned by the minimum and maximum coordinate values (xmin, xmax), (ymin, ymax), (zmin, zmax) of the points
in PCC
w . Each cell, i.e. voxel, of the grid has edge lengths of ∆x = ∆y = ∆z = 5mm. On this grid, we deﬁne a 3D
array B of size Nx × Ny × Nz, where
Nx = ⌊xmax −xmin
∆x
⌋+ 1;
Ny = ⌊ymax −ymin
∆y
⌋+ 1;
Nz = ⌊zmax −zmin
∆z
⌋+ 1.
(1)
Here ⌊·⌋is the ﬂoor function. The 3D volumetric form of the point cloud corresponds to the binary function B
computed as
B(k, l, m) =





1,
if ∃p = (x, y, z) ∈PCC
w :
⌊x−xmin
∆x
⌋= k & ⌊y−ymin
∆y
⌋= l & ⌊z−zmin
∆z
⌋= m
0,
otherwise,
(2)
for k = 0, ..., Nx −1, l = 0, ..., Ny −1, and m = 0, ..., Nz −1. In Fig. 4 (Step 1), the volumetric model of a sample
scene is visualized. In the ﬁgure only the voxels with value "1" are shown.
7

A PREPRINT - DECEMBER 29, 2020
Figure 4: Block diagram for detection and removal of trellis wires and the water-pipe.
Step 2: Skeletonization We extract the skeleton of the volumetric model B using medial axis thinning algorithm given
in [67]. Formally, the skeleton of a 3D object is the set of the centers of all inscribed maximal spheres where these
spheres touch the object boundary at one than more point [67]. The skeletonization process produces another binary
3D grid S of size Nx × Ny × Nz, where the structures in B are pruned to curves with thickness of one voxel. In Fig.
4 (Step 2), the skeleton of a sample scene is shown.
8

A PREPRINT - DECEMBER 29, 2020
Step 3: Projection and Hough Transform The skeleton deﬁned in the binary 3D grid S is projected to the YZ-plane
(parallel to the tree row) as a binary image, IH of size Ny × Nz:
IH(l, m) =
(
1,
if PNx−1
k=0
S(k, l, m) > 0
0,
otherwise,
(3)
for l = 0, ..., Ny −1, and m = 0, ..., Nz −1.
In Fig. 4 (Step 3), the projected binary image of a sample scene is shown. We apply 2D Hough Transform [68] to IH
to extract main horizontal lines in the binary image. The peaks greater than 20% of the maximum value in the Hough
parameter space, and with angle with the horizontal axis less than 10◦are selected as the main horizontal lines. These
horizontal lines correspond to candidates for the trellis-lines in the scene.
Step 4: Estimation of the trellis-plane
The detected horizontal lines are back-projected to the 3D space of the point cloud PCC
w , as shown with red lines in
Fig. 4 (Step 4). Let the set of these horizontal 3D lines be LHL = {hl1, hl2, ..., hlNHL}, where NHL is the number
of horizontal lines. Each 3D line is deﬁned by a pair of points on it, as hlr = (pr,1, pr,2), with pr,1 = (xr,1, yr,1, zr,1)
and pr,2 = (xr,2, yr,2, zr,2). We retrieve the points in PCC
w with distance 1cm to these lines, and form the subset:
PCtr = {p = (x, y, z) ∈PCC
w :
min
r=1,..,NHL d(p, hlr) < 1cm}.
(4)
The distance d(p, hlr) between a point p and the line hlr is calculated as:
d(p, hlr) = ∥(p −pr,1) × (p −pr,2)∥
∥pr,2 −pr,1∥
,
(5)
where × is the cross product operation, and ∥· ∥is the Euclidean norm. We ﬁt a plane to the points in PCtr using
M-estimator SAmple Consensus (MSAC) algorithm given in [69], which is a variant of RANdom SAmple Consensus
(RANSAC) algorithm. Maximum distance for a point to be an inlier is set to be 0.5cm. The output of the algorithm
is a plane model (A, B, C, D), where the parameters deﬁne the plane equation Ax + By + Cz + D = 0. The unit
vector nT P = (A, B, C) corresponds to the normal of the plane. We refer to this plane as the trellis-plane on which
trellis wires and tree trunks are located. Fig. 4 (Step 4) shows the trellis-plane ﬁtted to the points in PCtr for a sample
scene.
The trellis-plane plays an important role in the following steps. We rotate the calibrated winter point cloud PCC
w
to a new reference frame such that the new YZ plane coincides with the trellis-plane and Y-axis is parallel to the
trellis-lines. The new Y-axis is computed as the average of the direction vectors of the horizontal lines in LHL:
uY =
PNHL
r=1 (pr,2 −pr,1)
∥PNHL
r=1 (pr,2 −pr,1)∥
(6)
The new Z-axis is orthogonal to the normal of the trellis-plane and the average direction of the trellis-lines:
uZ = uY × nT P ,
(7)
and the new X-axis is
uX = uY × uZ
(8)
We transform each point p = (x, y, z) in the calibrated winter cloud PCC
w using the rotation matrix R deﬁned in Eq.
(9), and obtain a point cloud of the same size, PCT P
w . We refer to this point cloud as the winter point cloud aligned to
the trellis-plane.
PCT P
w
= {ˆp = (ˆx, ˆy, ˆz) = pR : p ∈PCC
w };
R =
"uX
uY
uZ
#
(9)
The origin of the new reference frame remains at the base of the target tree (see Supplementary Material A). With the
transformation, the trellis-plane coincides with the ˆx = 0 plane in the new reference frame. This ensures that the ˆx
coordinate of each tree trunk is close to 0. Notice that this transformation is applied only to the winter point cloud.
Once the semantic segmentation of the winter cloud is achieved and the trees are delineated, the points are transformed
back to their original positions using p = ˆpR−1.
9

A PREPRINT - DECEMBER 29, 2020
Step 5: Merge lines The detected horizontal lines are on the trellis-plane; hence, they are located on the ˆx = 0 plane
in the new reference frame. Their average direction is parallel to the Y-axis. Hence, we represent each line hlr ∈LHL
with the direction vector (0, 1, 0) and a point on the line (0, 0, ˆzr). The value ˆzr indicates the height of a horizontal
line on the trellis-plane and is calculated as:
ˆpr,1 = (ˆxr,1, ˆyr,1, ˆzr,1) = pr,1R;
ˆpr,2 = (ˆxr,2, ˆyr,2, ˆzr,2) = pr,2R;
(10)
ˆzr = ˆzr1 + ˆzr2
2
(11)
We merge the lines into parallel lines on the trellis-plane, each separated by at least 30cm to create the set of trellis-lines
LT L = {tl1, ..., tlNT L}. Each line is represented with the direction vector (0, 1, 0) and a point on the line (0, 0, ˆzq),
with q = 1, ..., NT L. We use the following procedure to cluster the horizontal lines in LHL into trellis-lines in LT L:
We ﬁrst sort the horizontal lines with ascending height. We start from the bottom line on the trellis-plane, and initialize
ˆz1 to the height of the ﬁrst horizontal line. If the distance between the closest horizontal line is less than 30cm, we add
the line to the group and update ˆz1 to the average height of the group. Otherwise, we create a new group and proceed
to the next line. In our experiments, the horizontal lines were grouped into 4 lines for all the winter scenes. Fig. 4
(Step 5) shows the resulting trellis-lines in red color for a sample winter scene. In the rest of the paper we ﬁx NT L = 4.
The four height values {ˆz1, ˆz2, ˆz3, ˆz4} will be used to specify the locations of the trellis-lines.
Step 6: Trunk candidate localization To localize candidate tree trunks along the trellis-plane we limit the search space
within 5cm distance to the trellis-plane. We extract a subset of points PCts from PCT P
w :
PCts = {ˆp = (ˆx, ˆy, ˆz) ∈PCT P
w
: |ˆx| < 5cm}
(12)
Fig. 4 (Step 6) shows PCts of a sample scene. We deﬁne a regular 2D grid, IG on the z = 0 plane, which is parallel
to the ground. Each cell of the grid has edge length ˆ∆x = ˆ∆y = 1cm. We compute the number of points in PCts
falling into each cell:
IGi,j = {ˆp = (ˆx, ˆy, ˆz) ∈PCts : ⌊ˆx −ˆxmin
ˆ∆x
⌋= i
&
⌊ˆy −ˆymin
ˆ∆y
⌋= j};
(13)
IG(i, j) = |IGi,j|,
(14)
where ˆxmin and ˆymin are the minimum of the ˆx and ˆy coordinates of the points in PCts, and |X| denotes the number
of elements in the set X.
IG is the histogram of the points in PCts projected to the ground. The points on the tree trunks form the densest re-
gions in the histogram correspond to the peaks of IG. The locations of the peaks are detected via non-maximum
suppression [70] as {(I1, J1), (I2, J2), ..., (INP , JNP )}, where NP is the number of detected peaks.
The set of
candidate trunk locations in the 3D space are then deﬁned as CT = {(0, ˆyct
1 , 0), (0, ˆyct
2 , 0), ..., (0, ˆyct
NP , 0)}; with
ˆy1 < ˆy1 < ... < ˆyct
NP . Recall that the trunks intersect with the trellis-plane. ˆyct
s for s = 1, ..., NP is calculated as:
ˆyct
s = Js ˆ∆y + ˆymin.
(15)
Fig. 4 (Step 6) shows the locations of the candidate trunks as vertical purple lines passing through (0, ˆyct
s , 0).
Step 7: Trunk veriﬁcation
Not all the peaks detected in the previous step correspond to tree trunks. In this step, we examine the points at each
candidate trunk location to verify whether it is a tree trunk, a support pole, or neither. We construct the set of trees T
using the veriﬁed trunks. Each tree Tj in T is represented by its tree identity tj ∈{1, 2, ..., Ntrees} and the location
of its base ˆLj = (ˆxj, ˆyj, ˆzj), for j = 1, 2, ..., TNtrees. The procedure for constructing the set of detected trees is given
in Algorithm 1, and explained below:
We ﬁrst initialize the set of trees as T = ∅and the number of tree trunks as Ntrees = 0. For each candidate trunk
indexed with s, we deﬁne a cylindrical region, with radius 15 cm, centered at the candidate trunk location (0, ˆyct
s , 0),
along the trellis-plane. We extract the points inside this region from PCT P
w :
PCCT
s
= {ˆp = (ˆx, ˆy, ˆz) ∈PCT P
w
:
p
ˆx2 + (ˆy2 −ˆyct
s )2 < 15cm}
(16)
The point cloud PCCT
s
is converted to binary volumetric form Bs with voxel size ˆ∆x = ˆ∆y = ˆ∆z = 5mm. Then,
the skeleton Ss is extracted from Bs using medial axis thinning algorithm given in [67]. The points on the skeleton
are retrieved from the point cloud PCCT
s
, and denoted as SKs.
10

A PREPRINT - DECEMBER 29, 2020
Algorithm 1: Tree trunk veriﬁcation
Data: PCT P
w : The winter point cloud aligned to the trellis-plane;
(0, ˆyct
s , 0): Candidate tree trunk locations for s = 1, ..., NP
Result: T = {T1, ..., TNtrees}: Set of detected trees;
Ntrees: Number of detected trees;
tj: Tree identity of Tj ∈T ;
ˆLj = (ˆxj, ˆyj, ˆzj): Location of Tj ∈T ;
SPj: Set of points on the main axis of Tj
1 Initialize T = ∅; Ntrees = 0; j = 0;
2 for s ←1 to NP do
3
Extract the point set PCCT
s
using Eq. (16);
4
Convert PCCT
s
to binary volumetric form Bs through voxelization;
5
Compute the skeleton Ss of Bs using medial axis thinning [67];
6
Obtain SKs by retrieving the 3D points on the skeleton Ss ;
7
Find the top and bottom points in SKs with the largest and smallest z-coordinates and designate them as
ˆps,top and ˆps,bottom ;
8
Extract the shortest path between ˆps,top and ˆps,bottom using Breadth-ﬁrst search [71] ;
9
Collect the points on the shortest path to form the main axis SPs;
10
Calculate the length dSP
s
of SPs;
11
if dSP
s
> 1m then
12
Run Support Pole Detection Algorithm on s (Section 2.4.2) ;
13
if s is not a Support Pole then
14
j ←j + 1 ;
15
Ntrees ←Ntrees + 1 ;
16
tj = j ;
17
ˆLj = (0, ˆyct
s , 0) ;
18
SPj = SPs ;
19
Tj = (tj, ˆLj, SPj) ;
20
T ←T ∪Tj
21
The two top and bottom points of the set SKs along the Z-axis ˆps,top and ˆps,bottom are retrieved. The points on the
shortest path between these two points is computed using the Breadth-ﬁrst search algorithm described in [71]. We
refer to the set of the points on the shortest path as the main axis of the sth trunk, and denote it as SPs. Fig. 4 (Step 7)
shows the skeleton with black dots and the points on the shortest path with blue dots for a candidate trunk location.
If the length of the shortest path dSP
s
is less than 1m, then the candidate trunk location is discarded. Otherwise, it is
passed to the support pole detection procedure described in Section 2.4.2. If it is not identiﬁed as a support pole, then
we update Ntrees ←Ntrees + 1, and insert the veriﬁed trunk into T . We also store the main axis of the veriﬁed trunk.
See Algorithm 1 for the formation of the set T .
Step 8: Extraction of trunk points The previous step gives the attributes of each tree Tj = (tj, ˆLj, SPj) ∈T . The
main axis of the jth detected tree is represented by the set of points SPj. We label a point ˆpi in the point cloud PCT P
w
as "Tree trunk" if its distance to the main axis of one of the trees is less than 3cm. Speciﬁcally:
γi = "Tree trunk"
if
min
j
min
ˆp∈SPj ∥ˆp −ˆpi∥2 < 3cm
(17)
Fig. 4 (Step 8) shows the points semantically labeled as "Tree trunk" in a winter scene.
Step 9: Locating the intersection points of trellis wires and tree trunks In Step 4, the set of trellis-lines LT L
=
{tl1, tl2, tl3, tl4} is determined. Recall that each line is represented with the direction vector (0, 1, 0) and a point
on the line (0, 0, ˆzq), with ˆz1 < ˆz2 < ˆz3 < ˆz4.
Now, having located the trunks at ˆLj = (0, ˆyj, 0) with
ˆy1 < ˆy2 < ... < ˆyNtrees, we ﬁnd the points where the trellis wires intersect with the trunk locations. For a trellis-line
with index q and a trunk location with index j, we ﬁnd the point ˆpq,j ∈PCT P
w
closest to the location (0, ˆyj, ˆzq). Fig.
4 (Step 9) shows the trellis-lines, located tree trunks and the intersection points ˆpq,j for a winter scene.
Step 10: Finding the end points of the trellis wires The end-points corresponding to the trellis wires in the scene are
determined by ﬁnding the closest points to the trellis-lines at the two extremes of the point cloud along the Y-axis.
11

A PREPRINT - DECEMBER 29, 2020
Speciﬁcally, for a trellis-line with index q, we locate two points ˆpq,0 ∈PCT P
w
and ˆpq,Ntrees+1 ∈PCT P
w , which
are closest to the locations (0, ˆymin, zq) and (0, ˆymax, zq), respectively. Here, ˆymin and ˆymax are the minimum and
maximum Y-coordinates of the points in PCT P
w . Fig. 4 (Step 10) shows the end points for a winter scene with red and
yellow dots.
Step 11: Line ﬁtting to ﬁnd the points on the trellis wires and the water-pipe The region between each adjacent inter-
secting points of trellis-lines and the trunks are examined for a precise determination of the points on the trellis wires
and the water-pipe. For each pair of intersecting points ˆpq,j and ˆpq,j+1, q = 1, ..., 4
j = 0, 1, ..., Ntrees we extract
the points:
PCq
j,j+1 ={ˆp = (ˆx, ˆy, ˆz) ∈PCT P
w
:
(ˆyj + 4cm < ˆy < ˆyj+1 −4cm) & (d(ˆp, lsj,j+1) < 10cm)}
(18)
where lsj,j+1 is the line deﬁned by the points ˆpq,j and ˆpq,j+1, and d(ˆp, lsj,j+1) is the distance between point ˆp and
line lsj,j+1. This region corresponds to a cylinder of radius 10cm with axis lsj,j+1. We set an offset value of 4cm
from the trunk locations not to include trunk points to the search region for trellis wire points.
Using MSAC algorithm given in [69], we ﬁt two lines to the points in PC0
j,j+1 corresponding to the regions along the
lowest trellis-line (one for the trellis wire and one for the water-pipe). One line is ﬁtted to the points for the rest of the
regions PCq
j,j+1 with q = 2, 3, 4. For a point to be an inlier, the maximum distance to the ﬁtted line is set to be 7cm
for q = 0 and 4cm for q = 2, 3, 4. Fig. 4 (Step 11) shows points in two regions along the trellis wires in blue and the
lines ﬁtted to them in black.
If a point ˆpi ∈PCT P
w
is an inlier of one of the ﬁtted lines we set its semantic label as γi = "Trellis wire + Water pipe".
Step 12: Removal of detected trellis wire points
The detected trellis wire points and the points on the support pole, if there is any, are removed from the point cloud to
form the set:
PCtrees
w
={ ˆpi ∈PCT P
w
:
(γi̸ = "Trellis wire + Water pipe") & (γi̸ = Support pole")}
(19)
The procedure for retrieving points on the support pole is given in Section 2.4.2. The point cloud PCtrees
w
is supposed
to include only the points on the trees. In Fig. 4 (Step 12) the points labeled as "Trellis wire+Water pipe" are shown
in dark blue. Also the resulting PCtrees
w
is given for a sample winter scene.
2.4.2
Detection of Support Poles
During the procedure for trellis wire detection and localization of tree trunks, we examine each trunk candidate to
determine whether it corresponds to a support pole or an actual tree trunk. We consider the points in a vertical
cylindrical region of radius 15cm centered at the candidate trunk location. We partition the points into horizontal
slices of height 2cm. We project the points in each slice onto the XY-plane (the ground plane) and ﬁt a circle of radius
4.5cm (the actual radius of a support pole in the orchard) to the projected points, and estimate the center. The centers
of the slices form the axis of the candidate support pole and the new cylindrical region. We count the points in the
cylindrical shell with inner and outer radii, 4.5 −0.5 and 4.5 + 0.5cm, and with height 2.3m (the actual height of a
support pole). If the ratio of this number to the total number of points in the initial cylindrical region is higher than
0.8, then we declare that the structure corresponds to a support pole. We label the points in the cylindrical shell as pole
points.
2.4.3
Identifying tree membership of points (Tree Separation)
This module of our pipeline is responsible for delineating the trees in PCtrees
w
, which is the point cloud with trellis
wires, the water-pipe and the support pole removed. The output of the delineation process is the assignment of each
point in PCtrees
w
to one of the trees Tj = (tj, ˆLj, SPj) ∈T .
The main steps of the tree separation process is given in Fig. 5. We convert PCtrees
w
to binary volumetric form and
apply skeletonization to conduct a connectivity analysis. We delineate adjacent trees if they are touching and we assign
isolated connected components to one of the two nearest trees through a set of rules. The details of the steps are as
follows:
Step 1: Voxelization The point cloud PCtrees
w
is converted to binary volumetric form Btrees with voxel size ˆ∆x =
ˆ∆y = ˆ∆z = 5mm.
12

A PREPRINT - DECEMBER 29, 2020
Input Point Cloud
Step 1: Voxelization
Convert the 3D point cloud to volumetric form.
Step 2: Skeletonization
Skeletonize the volumetric model using medial axis transform.
Step 3: Extract connected components
Extract the connected components of the skeleton.
(Each connected component is shown in a different color in the figure below)
Step 4: Labeling connected components
For each connected component, compute the minimum distance
from all the trunk locations.
•
If the distance is below a threshold (30cm) for a trunk location, assign the
label of the trunk location to the connected component (components colored
according to assigned trunk label in the figure below to the right).
•
If not assigned to any trunk location, label the component as "floating"
(components in black color in the figure below to the right).
•
If the connected component is assigned to more than one trunk location, it is
assumed to span several trees (component in gray color in the figure below
to the right).
Step 5: Split touching trees
Split touching trees using Algorithm 1.
Step 6:Assign floating components to a trunk
All floating components are assigned to a trunk
location using Algorithm 2.
Step 7: Label all the points
Label each point in the point cloud using the tree assignment of
its nearest skeleton point.
Step5: Split touching trees
A connected component spanning multiple trees is split using
Algorithm 1.
•
The connected component is converted to a graph.
•
For each trunk location spanned by the connected component, the shortest
path between highest and lowest points is extracted (depicted in red in the
figure below to the left)
•
Find shortest paths between the trunks of adjacent trees (depicted in green
in the figure below to the left)
•
Locate cut points on the paths connecting the trunks.
•
Remove the cut points, extract new connected components and assign each
to the closest trunk.
line 1
line 2
Step 6: Assign floating components to a trunk
All floating components are assigned to a trunk
location using Algorithm 2.
•
Convert the points in the
oa
ng component to a graph.
•
Fit lines to the end-points of the graph and extend these lines.
•
The
 oa
ng point is assigned to the label of the connected
component with the minimum distance to the extended lines.
(a)
(c)
(b)
Figure 5: (a) Block diagram for separating individual trees. (b) Illustration of Step 5 for splitting touching trees, (c)
Illustration of Step 6 for labeling ﬂoating components.
13

A PREPRINT - DECEMBER 29, 2020
Step 2: Skeletonization The skeleton Strees is extracted from Btrees using medial axis thinning algorithm given in
[67].
Step 3: Extraction of connected components Connected components of Strees are extracted using ﬂood ﬁll algorithm
[72]. We denote the set of connected components as CC = {C1, C2, ..., CNcomp}, where Cc is the cth connected
component and Ncomp is the number of connected components. Fig. 5 shows each connected component in a sample
Strees in a different color.
Step 4: Labeling connected components Using the trunk locations ˆLj = (0, ˆyj, 0), we compute the minimum distance
of each connected component Cc to all trunk locations. If this distance is below 30cm, then we assign Cc to tj. Fig.
5 (Step 4) gives the trunk locations as lines in different colors and the connected components colored according to the
assigned tree for a sample Strees.
After this procedure a connected component might be assigned to 1) only one tree, 2) to multiple trees, or 3) none
of the trees. If the connected component is assigned to multiple trees, it is assumed to be spanning several trees that
are touching each other. We label the connected components not assigned to any tree as "ﬂoating". The ﬂoating
components are shown in black color in Fig. 5 (Step 4).
Step 5: Splitting touching trees For a connected component Cc spanning Nc trees {Tj}, j = jc
1, ..., jc
Nc, we run Algo-
rithm 2. Before running the algorithm, we update SPj, main axis of the jth trunk, together with the points ˆpj,top and
ˆpj,bottom. Recall that ˆpj,top and ˆpj,bottom are the top and bottom points of the skeleton of the jth tree trunk and SPj
is the shortest path connecting them. Fig. 5 (b) shows a connected component spanning three trees. The main axes of
them are plotted in red color, on the left.
Algorithm 2: Separation of a connected component into multiple trees
Data: Cc: Connected component spanning multiple trees;
{Tj}: Trees spanned by Cc; j = jc
1, ..., jc
Nc;
{SPj}: Main axes of trees;
{ˆpj,top}: Top points of the main axes
Result: {Cc,d}: Detached connected components each assigned to a tree; d = 1, ..., N c
comp
1 for j ←jc
1 to jc
Nc −1 do
2
CP ←∅;
3
Extract the shortest path CP between the points ˆpj,top and ˆpj+1,top;
4
while CP̸ = ∅do
5
CP ←(CP \ SPj) \ SPj+1 ;
6
Select the global extremum of the z-coordinate in CP as the cut-point;
7
Remove the cut-point from Cc ;
8
Extract the shortest path CP between the points ˆpj,top and ˆpj+1,top;
9 Apply connected components to Cc to obtain {Cc,d} ;
10 Assign each connected component Cc,d to the closest tree trunk;
Algorithm 2 takes as input the set of trees identities {Tj}, j = jc
1, ..., jc
Nc spanned by the connected component Cc.
For each adjacent tree pair Tj, Tj+1, the shortest path between their top points ˆpj,top and ˆpj+1,top is extracted. We call
this path CP, the connecting path, which contains the touching point of branches from trees Tj and Tj+1. Each such
path is searched for a cut-point to separate the connected adjacent trees. The cut-point is removed from the component
Cc to break the connectivity at that point. The process is repeated and CP is updated until there remains no connected
path between ˆpj,top and ˆpj+1,top. Fig. 5 (b) depicts the connecting paths CP between adjacent trees with green dots.
After all connecting paths are extracted and the cut-points are found and removed, detached connected components
{Cc,d}; d = 1, ..., N c
comp of Cc are extracted. Then each connected component is assigned to the tree identity of the
closest tree trunk. Fig. 5 (b) shows the detached connected components each colored according to its tree identity.
It is challenging to determine the point where branches from two trees touch each other. Many architectural and
morphological rules concerning apple tree branches can be incorporated. However, here, we use a simple heuristic
based on the assumption that the point that changes direction along the z-axis (upwards or downwards) corresponds to
a meeting point along the path. We select the global extremum of the z-coordinate as the cut-point of the connecting
path.
Step 6: Assigning ﬂoating components to a tree The tree membership of a ﬂoating component Cc is determined using
Algorithm 3. Before running Algorithm 3, we identify the set C = {(C1, τ1), ..., (CNF , τNF )} of connected compo-
14

A PREPRINT - DECEMBER 29, 2020
nents already assigned to a tree. Here τf ∈{t1, ..tNtrees} is the tree identity of the component Cf. We determine
the two closest components in C to the ﬂoating component Cc. If the distance to one connected component is more
than 3 times than the distance to the other component, we assign the points in Cc to the tree identity of the closest
component. Otherwise, we locate the end-points in Cc, ﬁt lines to these end-points and extend these lines, as shown in
Fig. 5 (c). The minimum distance of the two closest connected components to these lines are calculated. The ﬂoating
component is then assigned to the tree identity of the connected component with the minimum distance to the extended
lines. Algorithm 3 gives the details of the process.
Step 7: Labeling all points with tree identities After Steps 5 and 6, all connected components in Strees are assigned
to a tree label τc ∈{t1, ..tNtrees}. Recall that the connected components are extracted from the skeleton Strees of
the point cloud PCtrees
w
. For each point ˆp ∈PCtrees
w
, we locate the closest component of Strees and assign the tree
identity of the component to the point ˆp. Fig. 5 (Step 7) shows the points of a sample PCtrees
w
colored according to
their tree identities.
Algorithm 3: Assignment of a ﬂoating branch to a neighboring tree.
Data: Cc: Floating connected component;
C = {(Cf, τf)}: Connected components already assigned to a tree (f = 1, 2, ..., NF)
Result: τc ∈{t1, ..tNtrees}: Tree identity of Cc
1 for f ←1 to NF do
2
Calculate the minimum distance df between the points in Cc and the points in Cf;
3 dF 1 ←Minimum of df;
dF 2 ←Next minimum of df;
4 CF 1 ←Component with dF 1 ;
CF 2 ←Component with dF 2;
5 τ F 1 ←Tree identity of CF 1 ;
τ F 2 ←Tree identity of CF 2;
6 if dF 2
dF 1 > 3 then
7
τc ←τ F 1;
8 else
9
Extract the end-points pe of Cc, e = 1, 2, ..., Ne;
10
for e ←1 to Ne do
11
Extract K nearest neighbors of pe with K = 10 ;
12
Fit a line le to the neighbors;
13
deF 1 ←Minimum distance of the points in CF 1 to the line le;
14
deF 2 ←Minimum distance of the points in CF 2 to the line le;
15
if min{deN1} < min{deN2} then
16
τc ←τ F 1
17
else
18
τc ←τ F 2;
Recall that PCtrees
w
is a subset of PCT P
w , which is the winter point cloud aligned to the trellis-plane. To ﬁnd the tree
identities of the points in the calibrated winter cloud PCC
w , we ﬁrst apply p = ˆpR−1 to each point ˆp ∈PCtrees
w
with
tree identity τ ∈{t1, ..., tNtrees}. Then, we retrieve the closest point pi ∈PCC
w to p and set τi = τ.
2.5
Apple detection
To detect apples, we applied simple color thresholding to the calibrated 3D color point cloud of the harvest scene PCC
h .
First, the RGB colors of points are converted to HSV (Hue, Saturation, Value) representation. The points in the hue
range [0.15-0.2] are assumed to correspond to green/yellow apple points. The red apple points are assumed to be in the
hue range [0-0.05] and [0.95-1]. The points with hue values in these ranges are retrieved and converted to volumetric
form. The connected components of the volumetric form and their bounding boxes are extracted. The centers of these
bounding boxes are mapped to the 3D space of PCC
h and are considered to be the locations of detected apples. We
denote the set of detected apples in a harvest scene as A = {pα
1 , ..., pα
Napples}, where pα
a is the location of a detected
apple.
Although our apple detection approach is primitive, it provides recall rates in the range of 74% to 90% (see Section 3.2).
This level of detection success is sufﬁcient to demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach for assigning retrieved
apples to their respective trees.
15

A PREPRINT - DECEMBER 29, 2020
2.6
Assigning apples to individual trees
The main objective of this work is to automatically assign detected apples to their respective trees; i.e. to determine
the tree identity τa ∈{t1, ..., tNtrees} of each detected apple pα
a ∈A. To this end, we align calibrated winter cloud
PCC
w and summer cloud PCC
h and assign apple pα
a detected from PCC
h to the tree identity of the closest branch point
in the aligned winter cloud.
Since both point clouds were transformed, through calibration, to a common reference frame with the origin at the base
of a reference tree (see Supplementary Material A for details), they are already initially aligned. We apply the standard
Iterative Closest Point (ICP) algorithm [73] to improve the alignment. Point to point metric is used to minimize the
alignment error. ICP returns the transformation parameters; a rotation matrix Rwh and a translation vector T wh that
align the points in PCC
w to the points in PCC
h :
PCC
wh = {p′
i = piRwh + T wh : (pi ∈PCC
w ) & τi ∈{t1, ..., tNtrees}}.
(20)
Once the transformed winter point cloud PCC
wh is obtained, the closest branch point in PCC
wh labeled with a tree
identity to the apple location pα
a is retrieved:
i∗= arg
min
p′
i∈P CC
wh
∥p′
i −pα
a∥;
(21)
and the tree identity of apple a is set as
τa = τi∗.
(22)
2.7
Ground truth and evaluation metrics
To provide ground truth for evaluation of our semantic segmentation scheme, we manually labeled each point pi ∈
PCC
w with one of the semantic labels γGT
i
∈{"Tree trunk", "Branch", "Trellis wire+Water pipe", "Support pole"}.
We used CloudCompare (2.11, GPL software, 2020) to label the point cloud. Fig. 6-(a) shows a sample winter scene
with points colored according to their manually annotated ground truth labels.
We evaluated the performance of the semantic segmentation module described in Section 2.4.1 using Recall (Re),
Precision (Pr), F1 score (F1), Intersection over Union (IoU), and Class Accuracy (CA), deﬁned as
Re =
T P
T P + FN
(23)
Pr =
T P
T P + FP
(24)
F1 = 2 × Pr × Re
Pr + Re
(25)
IoU =
T P
T P + FN + FP
(26)
CA =
T P + T N
T P + T N + FP + FN ,
(27)
where T P, T N, FP and FN, correspond to the number of True Positives, True Negatives, False Positives, and False
Negatives, respectively. These cases for the "Tree trunk" are determined as follows:
Casei =







True Positive
if γi = γGT
i
= "Tree trunk"
True Negative
if (γi̸ = "Tree trunk")&(γGT
i̸
= "Tree trunk")
False Positive
if (γi = "Tree trunk")&(γGT
i̸
= "Tree trunk")
False Negative
if (γi̸ = "Tree trunk")&(γGT
i
= "Tree trunk"),
(28)
where γGT
i
is the ground truth label of point pi and γi is the label predicted by our automatic semantic segmentation
scheme. The cases for "Trellis wire+Water pipe" and "Support pole" are obtained in a similar manner.
16

A PREPRINT - DECEMBER 29, 2020
(a)
(b)
(c)
Figure 6: Ground truth. (a) Manually labeled point cloud for assessment of trellis wire, tree trunk and support pole
detection, (b) Harvest point cloud with ground truth apple locations, (c) Point cloud manually segmented to individual
trees.
In order to assess the performance of the color-based apple detection approach, we manually marked the apple posi-
tions in the harvest point clouds and obtained the set of points AGT = {pα,GT
g
}; g = 1, ..., N GT
apples. In Fig. 6-(b),
a harvest point cloud with ground truth apple positions is shown. For evaluation, we used Recall (Re) and Precision
(Pr) metrics, deﬁned in Eq. (23) and (24). Here, the True Positives correspond to the cases where a ground truth
apple is correctly localized. The False Positives are wrong detections returned by the algorithm. The False Negatives
correspond to the ground truth apple locations missed by the algorithm. A detection pα
a ∈A is considered a True
Positive if there is a ground truth apple pα,GT
g
∈AGT such that ∥pα
a −pα,GT ∥< 10cm and there is no other detected
apples closer to pα,GT. We pair the indices (a, g) to indicate that pα
a ∈A corresponds to pα,GT
g
∈AGT . The number
of False Positives and False Negatives are then calculated as:
FP = Napples −T P
(29)
FN = N GT
apples −T P
(30)
where T P is the number of True Positives, Napples is the number of detected apples in A and N GT
apples is the number
of ground truth apples in AGT .
17

A PREPRINT - DECEMBER 29, 2020
The end result of our apple assignment pipeline is the tree identity of each detected apple, indicating which tree it
belongs to. In order to evaluate assignment performance, we provided the correct tree identities of the ground truth
apples via manual inspection; i.e. we determined τg ∈{1, .., Ntrees} for each pα,GT
g
∈AGT . We computed the
accuracy of the apple assignment (ACC) as the ratio of the number of correctly assigned true positives T PC to the
total number of true positives T P in the scene:
ACC = T PC
T P
(31)
A detection pα
a ∈A is considered to be a correctly assigned true positive if its tree identity τa, determined by Eq. (21)
and (22), is equal to the tree identity τg of its matched ground truth apple pα,GT
g
∈AGT .
Recall that we assigned each apple pα
a ∈A to the tree identity τi∗of the closest branch point pi∗in the aligned winter
cloud through Eq. (21) and (22). In order to decouple the apple assignment errors due to branch deformation between
winter and summer trees and errors due to our automatic tree separation method, we performed the apple assignment
procedure on two types of data:
1. Manually Separated: We manually separated the winter point clouds into individual trees and provided the
ground truth tree identities τ GT
i
∈{1, ..., N GT
trees} of the trunk and branch points in the winter cloud. We used
CloudCompare (2.11, GPL software, 2020) for annotation. One example is shown in Fig. 6-(c).
2. Automatically Separated: We used the tree identities τi ∈{1, ..., Ntrees} of the trunk and branch points in
the winter cloud predicted by our automatic tree separation procedure.
3
Results
We ﬁrst report the results of the semantic segmentation method, which detects the trellis wires, tree trunks and support
poles. Then, we provide the performance of the apple detection method and the assignment procedure of apples to
individual trees in the scene.
(a)
(b)
(c)
Figure 7: (a) Calibrated point clouds, (b) Manually generated Ground Truth (cyan:trellis wires, red: tree trunks, black:
support poles), (c) Semantic labels obtained by our method for automatic detection of trellis wires, tree trunks, and
support poles
3.1
Evaluation of detection of trellis wires, tree trunks and support poles
In Fig. 7, we give visual results of our semantic segmentation method for two winter scenes. The visual results for
all the seven scenes can be found in Supplementary Material B. We can observe that all the trees in the scenes of the
apple orchard, the trees were correctly localized. The number of detected tree trunks and the actual number of trees
were equal for all seven scenes; Ntrees = N GT
trees.
18

A PREPRINT - DECEMBER 29, 2020
Table 2: Performance of the method for detection of trellis wires, tree trunks and support poles. NP is for non-present.
Trellis wires
% Re
% Pr
% F1
% IoU
% CA
Scene 1
84.98
81.61
83.26
71.32
96.42
Scene 2
88.16
76.01
81.63
68.96
95.19
Scene 3
91.48
73.65
81.61
68.93
95.52
Scene 4
86.48
88.20
87.33
77.51
96.88
Scene 5
75.47
85.21
80.04
66.73
95.64
Scene 6
85.82
77.75
81.59
68.90
96.06
Scene 7
79.24
81.16
80.19
66.93
96.48
Tree trunks
% Re
% Pr
% F1
% IoU
% CA
Scene 1
90.26
77.97
83.67
71.92
92.83
Scene 2
91.49
74.89
82.36
70.01
91.77
Scene 3
92.77
70.03
79.81
66.40
91.31
Scene 4
83.23
71.23
76.76
62.29
90.55
Scene 5
94.25
67.03
78.34
64.40
91.56
Scene 6
94.02
70.39
80.51
67.37
92.78
Scene 7
95.47
69.19
80.24
66.99
93.27
Support poles
% Re
% Pr
% F1
% IoU
% CA
Scene 1
95.50
96.24
95.87
92.07
99.44
Scene 2
NP
NP
NP
NP
NP
Scene 3
NP
NP
NP
NP
NP
Scene 4
NP
NP
NP
NP
NP
Scene 5
91.83
98.74
95.16
90.77
98.65
Scene 6
94.44
99.26
96.79
93.78
98.15
Scene 7
97.94
98.96
98.45
96.94
99.64
Table 2 provides quantitative evaluation of our semantic segmentation method. The recall and precision values for the
trellis wires are satisfactory. All the support poles in the scenes were correctly identiﬁed and segmented with over
90% success. The recall rate for the trunks is over 90% for all but one scene, meaning that most of the trunk points are
retrieved. The precision rates are satisfactory for our purposes. The less than perfect precision is due to the fact that
branching points close to the tree trunks are also classiﬁed as trunks by our method.
It should be recalled that our aim is not to provide a perfect segmentation, but rather 1) to detect and remove the
trellis wires to break connectivity between adjacent trees, 2) to locate the tree trunks correctly to be able to separate
individual trees, and 3) to remove the support poles. For the purposes of our application, these aims were achieved
with this level of automatic point labeling of the scene.
3.2
Evaluation of apple detection and assignment to individual trees
The precision and recall values obtained with color-based apple detection are given in Table 3. Despite the simplicity
of the detection approach, we achieved over 90.75% recall; i.e. most of the apples in the ground truth were retrieved.
The false negatives occurred since we did not post-process the connected components for resolving clusters of apples.
The over-detection (precision 65,37%) can be explained by the sensitivity of the color-based algorithm and the lack of
shape-based apple veriﬁcation. Fig. 9 (a) and (b) visually illustrate the performance of our apple detection method on
two sample scenes.
Our main task is to correctly assign the detected apples to the individual trees they belong to. As we have stated
earlier, we performed the assignment procedure to two types of data: 1) The winter point clouds which are manually
segmented to individual trees, and 2) The winter point clouds where the trees are segmented using our automatic tree
separation method. Fig. 8 shows the assignment accuracy (ACC) on both type of data. The performance is high for
both cases (100% on four scenes). With automatic tree separation, a performance drop of less than 3% is observed,
demonstrating that our automatic pipeline was able to detach individual trees and correctly assign the detected apples.
19

A PREPRINT - DECEMBER 29, 2020
Table 3: Apple detection performance.
3D scenes
% Re
% Pr
Scene 1
74.50
61.29
Scene 2
87.34
62.16
Scene 3
88.54
58.21
Scene 4
90.00
48.64
Scene 5
90.62
58.58
Scene 6
77.41
65.62
Scene 7
80.85
66.66
Figure 8: Accuracy of assigning apples to the correct apple trees in 3D models.
Fig. 9 (c) and (d) show the registration result of winter and harvest point clouds for two sample scenes. Each separated
tree in the winter clouds is shown in a different color. In Fig. 9 (e) and (f), the detected apples are shown with the
color of their corresponding tree labels.
4
Discussion
The full pipeline presented and tested in this manuscript achieves great performance for assigning apples to individual
trees in dense orchards. The main strategy is aligning summer and winter point clouds. The sub-steps of the pipeline,
for which we chose standard approaches for implementation, are open to improvement for further performance in-
crease.
Images were acquired manually with a standard camera. This is a rather time consuming process for producing
hundreds of images per tree. The speed of acquisition can be increased and the amount of images can be optimized by
a drone with a camera or a land robot with multiple cameras and automatic navigation via GPS localization [74]. The
object of reference for calibration and registration of the summer and winter point cloud was chosen to be the X-Rite
ColorChecker, since it is a standard tool in the computer vision community. In principle, any reference object with a
distinctive geometric pattern could serve the same purpose. One could, for instance, use a large data matrix mounted
on a tripod stick. The data matrix could enable both tree identiﬁcation and calibration of the acquired 3D data.
The deformation we observed with our data (young trees of four years old) becomes even more pronounced for older
trees. Registration of winter and summer calibrated point clouds could be performed efﬁciently with non-rigid reg-
istration while dealing with older trees, where the deformation during summer could be larger due to increased fruit
load. Non-rigid registration is widely used in medical imaging when data from two different modalities, such as MRI
and X-Ray images, should be registered. Non-rigid deformation between the image sets are commonly observed due
to movement of the patient or artifacts of the imaging systems. The literature on non-rigid registration of medical
images can thus be revisited for our plant imaging problem [75]. To avoid having a too large exploration space for
this non-rigid registration, one could also use botanical and physical knowledge on the development of trees. The
size and weight of the fruits is important because it can cause arching of the branches, therefore, a deformation of the
20

A PREPRINT - DECEMBER 29, 2020
True positives
False negatives
False positives
True positives
False negatives
False positives
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
Figure 9: (a), (b) True positives, false negatives, and false positives obtained with color-based apple detection method
for two sample scenes. (c), (d) Registration of harvest and winter clouds for the two scenes. Each separated tree is
shown with a different color. (e), (f) Assignment of true positives to their corresponding trees for the two scenes.
architecture. Another factor that alters the architecture is the secondary growth of the branches. Expert knowledge on
such processes can be used to constrain the deformation space and ﬁx the hyperparameters of the non-rigid registration
algorithms.
In this work, we used connectivity analysis and simple heuristics to disconnect touching trees. Alternatively, the
identiﬁcation of each tree unit can be achieved using the architectural criteria speciﬁc to each tree. They are linked to
the basic architectural models deﬁned for each taxon [76]. They are supplemented by the growth conditions speciﬁc
to each tree and are assessed by the diameter, length, age and branching angles of the branches but also by the location
of inﬂorescences and fruits.
21

A PREPRINT - DECEMBER 29, 2020
Last but not least, the apple detection algorithm chosen in this manuscript was extremely simple and it will be necessary
to revisit the huge literature on apple detection to improve the performance, specially on groups of apples or to reduce
the amount of false positives. State-of-the-art methods employing deep learning architectures, such as [77–79], can be
employed for highly accurate apple detection and counting.
Our pipeline enables the assignment of apples to the trees that bear them. This makes it possible to assess the pro-
duction and the quality of the fruiting body in variety testing applications and also in the agronomic management of
orchards. We know that fruiting is the expression of primary and secondary growth followed by a ﬂowering process
with the formation of inﬂorescences and ﬂowers. One, two or three years old axes that are part of the overall architec-
ture of the tree carry these inﬂorescences. In this biological process, Laury et al. [80, 81] showed the importance of the
age of branches, their position in the architecture and secondary growth on the fruit load of the tree. Our pipeline opens
the way to acquire data at different developmental stages, analyze the architecture of individual trees, track primary
and secondary growth, determine their axes of different ages. The location of the fruits and the identiﬁcation of the
characteristics of the axes that carry them, supplemented by a temporal monitoring of the architectural development
could make it possible to obtain information to manage and improve the agronomic management of fruit trees.
5
Conclusion
In this article, we presented, for the ﬁrst time to the best of our knowledge, a pipeline to assign detected apples to
their corresponding apple trees in 3D color point clouds. The pipeline was able to detect and ﬁlter out trellis wires and
support poles. It successfully located trunk locations in the scene and retrieved trunk points with more than 90% recall
rate. The detected apples were assigned to their corresponding trees with more than 95% accuracy.
This ﬁrst proof of feasibility has shown the possibility and beneﬁt of registration of 3D models of orchard scenes
obtained in two different seasons. A direction for further development could be more frequent acquisition and recon-
struction during the year, for instance during ﬂowering period to link ﬂower density to apple yield on individual trees.
As another application, the conﬁguration of the fruits in the harvest period can be used to guide the pruning process in
early spring. These perspectives are now open with the pipeline proposed in this study.
References
[1] D.-L. Wulfsohn,
F. Zamora,
C. Tellez,
I. Lagos,
M. Garcia-Finana,
Multilevel systematic sam-
pling to estimate total fruit number for yield forecasts,
Precision Agriculture 13 (2012) 256–275.
doi:10.1007/s11119-011-9245-2.
[2] A. Gongal,
S. Amatya,
M. Karkee,
Q. Zhang,
K. Lewis,
Sensors and systems for fruit de-
tection
and localization:
A review,
Computers and
Electronics in
Agriculture 116 (2015) 8
–
19.
URL:
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168169915001581.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2015.05.021.
[3] J.
Gené-Mola,
V.
Vilaplana,
J.
R.
Rosell-Polo,
J.-R.
Morros,
J.
Ruiz-Hidalgo,
E.
Gre-
gorio,
Multi-modal
deep
learning
for
Fuji
apple
detection
using
RGB-D
cameras
and
their
radiometric
capabilities,
Computers
and
Electronics
in
Agriculture
162
(2019)
689
–
698.
URL:
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168169919301413.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2019.05.016.
[4] T. T. Nguyen, K. Vandevoorde, N. Wouters, E. Kayacan, J. G. De Baerdemaeker, W. Saeys,
De-
tection of red and bicoloured apples on tree with an RGB-D camera,
Biosystems Engineering 146
(2016) 33 – 44. URL: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1537511016000088.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2016.01.007, special Issue: Advances in Robotic Agri-
culture for Crops.
[5] Y.
Tao,
J.
Zhou,
Automatic
apple
recognition
based
on
the
fusion
of
color
and
3D
fea-
ture
for
robotic
fruit
picking,
Computers
and
Electronics
in
Agriculture
142
(2017)
388
–
396.
URL:
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168169917302764.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2017.09.019.
[6] S. Tu,
Y. Xue,
C. Zheng,
Y. Qi,
H. Wan,
L. Mao,
Detection of passion fruits and matu-
rity classiﬁcation using Red-Green-Blue Depth images,
Biosystems Engineering 175 (2018) 156
–
167.
URL:
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1537511017309844.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2018.09.004.
[7] G.
Lin,
Y.
Tang,
X.
Zou,
J.
Li,
J.
Xiong,
In-ﬁeld
citrus
detection
and
localisa-
tion
based
on
RGB-D
image
analysis,
Biosystems
Engineering
186
(2019)
34
–
44.
22

A PREPRINT - DECEMBER 29, 2020
URL:
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1537511018312765.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2019.06.019.
[8] L. Fu, Y. Majeed, X. Zhang, M. Karkee, Q. Zhang,
Faster R–CNN–based apple detection in dense-
foliage fruiting-wall trees using RGB and depth features for robotic harvesting, Biosystems Engineering 197
(2020) 245 – 256. URL: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1537511020302002.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2020.07.007.
[9] O. Safren, V. Alchanatis, V. Ostrovsky, O. Levi, Detection of green apples in hyperspectral images of apple-tree
foliage using machine vision, Transactions of the ASABE 50 (2007) 2303–2313.
[10] D. Stajnko, M. Lakota, M. Hoˇcevar,
Estimation of number and diameter of apple fruits in an or-
chard during the growing season by thermal imaging,
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 42
(2004) 31 – 42. URL: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168169903000863.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/S0168-1699(03)00086-3.
[11] D.
Bulanon,
T.
Burks,
V.
Alchanatis,
Study
on
temporal
variation
in
citrus
canopy
us-
ing
thermal
imaging
for
citrus
fruit
detection,
Biosystems
Engineering
101
(2008)
161
–
171.
URL:
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1537511008002420.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2008.08.002.
[12] D.
Bulanon,
T.
Burks,
V.
Alchanatis,
Image
fusion
of
visible
and
ther-
mal
images
for
fruit
detection,
Biosystems
Engineering
103
(2009)
12
–
22.
URL:
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1537511009000610.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2009.02.009.
[13] J. P. Wachs, H. I. Stern, T. F. Burks, V. Alchanatis, Low and high-level visual feature-based apple detection from
multi-modal images, Precision Agriculture 11 (2010) 717–735.
[14] H.
Gan,
W.
S.
Lee,
V.
Alchanatis,
A.
Abd-Elrahman,
Active
thermal
imaging
for
immature
citrus
fruit
detection,
Biosystems
Engineering
198
(2020)
291
–
303.
URL:
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1537511020302348.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2020.08.015.
[15] J. Gené-Mola,
E. Gregorio,
J. Guevara,
F. Auat,
R. Sanz-Cortiella,
A. Escolà,
J. Llorens,
J.-
R. Morros,
J. Ruiz-Hidalgo,
V. Vilaplana,
J. R. Rosell-Polo,
Fruit detection in an apple or-
chard
using
a
mobile
terrestrial
laser
scanner,
Biosystems
Engineering
187
(2019)
171
–
184.
URL:
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1537511019308128.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2019.08.017.
[16] Q. Wang, S. Nuske, M. Bergerman, S. Singh, Automated crop yield estimation for apple orchards, in: Experi-
mental Robotics: The 13th International Symposium on Experimental Robotics, volume 88, 2012, pp. 745–758.
doi:10.1007/978-3-319-00065-7_50.
[17] S. Sengupta,
W.
S. Lee,
Identiﬁcation and
determination of the
number of immature green
citrus fruit in a canopy under different ambient light conditions,
Biosystems Engineering 117
(2014) 51 – 61. URL: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1537511013001141.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2013.07.007, image Analysis in Agriculture.
[18] S. Sabzi, Y. Abbaspour-Gilandeh, G. García-Mateos, A. Ruiz-Canales, J. M. Molina-Martínez, Segmentation of
apples in aerial images under sixteen different lighting conditions using color and texture for optimal irrigation,
Water 10 (2018) 1634.
[19] A. Gongal,
A. Silwal,
S. Amatya,
M. Karkee,
Q. Zhang,
K. Lewis,
Apple crop-load esti-
mation with over-the-row machine vision system,
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 120
(2016) 26 – 35. URL: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S016816991500335X.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2015.10.022.
[20] P. Roy, V. Isler, Vision-based apple counting and yield estimation, in: Kuli´c D., Nakamura Y., Khatib O.,
Venture G. (eds) 2016 International Symposium on Experimental Robotics. ISER 2016. Springer Proceedings in
Advanced Robotics, volume 1, 2016, pp. 478–487. doi:10.1007/978-3-319-50115-4_42.
[21] S. Bargoti, J. P. Underwood, Image segmentation for fruit detection and yield estimation in apple orchards,
Journal of Field Robotics 34 (2017) 1039–1060. doi:10.1002/rob.21699.
[22] S. Samiei, P. Rasti, P. Richard, G. Galopin, D. Rousseau, Toward joint acquisition-annotation of images with
egocentric devices for a lower-cost machine learning application to apple detection, Sensors 20 (2020) 4173.
23

A PREPRINT - DECEMBER 29, 2020
[23] S. Sun, M. Jiang, D. He, Y. Long, H. Song,
Recognition of green apples in an orchard en-
vironment by combining the GrabCut model and Ncut algorithm,
Biosystems Engineering 187
(2019) 201 – 213. URL: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1537511019308207.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2019.09.006.
[24] A.
Gong,
J.
Yu,
Y.
He,
Z.
Qiu,
Citrus
yield
estimation
based
on
images
pro-
cessed
by
an
Android
mobile
phone,
Biosystems
Engineering
115
(2013)
162
–
170.
URL:
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1537511013000500.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2013.03.009.
[25] J. Lu,
W.
S. Lee,
H. Gan,
X. Hu,
Immature citrus fruit detection based on local binary
pattern
feature
and
hierarchical
contour
analysis,
Biosystems
Engineering
171
(2018)
78
–
90.
URL:
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1537511017301502.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2018.04.009.
[26] Z. He,
J. Xiong,
S. Chen,
Z. Li,
S. Chen,
Z. Zhong,
Z. Yang,
A method of green cit-
rus
detection
based
on
a
deep
bounding box
regression
forest,
Biosystems
Engineering 193
(2020) 206 – 215. URL: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1537511020300647.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2020.03.001.
[27] E.
E.
Kelman,
R.
Linker,
Vision-based
localisation
of
mature
apples
in
tree
images
using
convexity,
Biosystems
Engineering
118
(2014)
174
–
185.
URL:
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1537511013001918.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2013.11.007.
[28] R.
Linker,
Machine
learning
based
analysis
of
night-time
images
for
yield
pre-
diction
in
apple
orchard,
Biosystems
Engineering
167
(2018)
114
–
125.
URL:
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1537511017306785.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2018.01.003.
[29] G.
Wu,
Q.
Zhu,
M.
Huang,
Y.
Guo,
J.
Qin,
Automatic recognition of
juicy
peaches
on
trees
based
on
3D
contour features
and
colour data,
Biosystems
Engineering 188
(2019) 1
–
13.
URL:
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1537511019308451.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2019.10.002.
[30] O. E. Apolo-Apolo, M. Pérez-Ruiz, J. Martínez-Guanter, J. Valente, A cloud-based environment for generating
yield estimation maps from apple orchards using UAV imagery and a deep learning technique, Frontiers in Plant
Science 11 (2020) 1086. URL: https://www.frontiersin.org/article/10.3389/fpls.2020.01086.
doi:10.3389/fpls.2020.01086.
[31] S. Bargoti, J. Underwood, Deep fruit detection in orchards, in: 2017 IEEE International Conference on Robotics
and Automation (ICRA), 2017, pp. 3626–3633.
[32] K. Bresilla,
G. D. Perulli,
A. Boini, B. Morandi, L. Corelli Grappadelli, L. Manfrini,
Single-
shot convolution neural networks for real-time fruit detection within the tree,
Frontiers in Plant
Science 10 (2019) 611. URL: https://www.frontiersin.org/article/10.3389/fpls.2019.00611.
doi:10.3389/fpls.2019.00611.
[33] S. W. Chen, S. S. Shivakumar, S. Dcunha, J. Das, E. Okon, C. Qu, C. J. Taylor, V. Kumar, Counting apples and
oranges with deep learning: A data-driven approach, IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters 2 (2017) 781–788.
[34] N. Häni, P. Roy, V. Isler, Apple counting using convolutional neural networks, in: 2018 IEEE/RSJ International
Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), 2018, pp. 2559–2565.
[35] N.
Häni,
P.
Roy,
V.
Isler,
A
comparative
study
of
fruit
detection
and
counting
methods
for
yield
mapping
in
apple
orchards,
Journal
of
Field
Robotics
37
(2020)
263–282. URL:
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/rob.21902.
doi:10.1002/rob.21902.
arXiv:https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdf/10.1002/rob.21902.
[36] Y. Tian, G. Yang, Z. Wang, H. Wang, E. Li, Z. Liang,
Apple detection during different growth
stages in orchards using the improved YOLO-V3 model,
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 157
(2019) 417 – 426. URL: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S016816991831528X.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2019.01.012.
[37] X. Liu, S. W. Chen, S. Aditya, N. Sivakumar, S. Dcunha, C. Qu, C. J. Taylor, J. Das, V. Kumar,
Robust
fruit counting: Combining deep learning, tracking, and structure from motion, 2018 IEEE/RSJ International
Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS) (2018) 1045–1052.
24

A PREPRINT - DECEMBER 29, 2020
[38] H. A. Williams, M. H. Jones, M. Nejati, M. J. Seabright, J. Bell, N. D. Penhall, J. J. Barnett,
M. D. Duke, A. J. Scarfe, H. S. Ahn, J. Lim, B. A. MacDonald,
Robotic kiwifruit harvesting us-
ing machine vision, convolutional neural networks, and robotic arms,
Biosystems Engineering 181
(2019) 140 – 156. URL: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S153751101830638X.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2019.03.007.
[39] J. Xiong, Z. Liu, S. Chen, B. Liu, Z. Zheng, Z. Zhong, Z. Yang, H. Peng, Visual detection of green mangoes
by an unmanned aerial vehicle in orchards based on a deep learning method,
Biosystems Engineering 194
(2020) 261 – 272. URL: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1537511020300970.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2020.04.006.
[40] J. Gené-Mola,
R. Sanz-Cortiella,
J. R. Rosell-Polo,
J.-R. Morros,
J. Ruiz-Hidalgo,
V. Vilaplana,
E. Gregorio,
Fruit detection and 3D location using instance segmentation neural networks and
structure-from-motion
photogrammetry,
Computers
and
Electronics
in
Agriculture
169
(2020)
105165.
URL:
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168169919321507.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2019.105165.
[41] Z. Zhen, L. Quackenbush, L. Zhang,
Trends in automatic individual tree crown detection and delin-
eation—evolution of LiDAR data, Remote Sensing 8 (2016) 333. doi:10.3390/rs8040333.
[42] T. Brandtberg,
T. A. Warner,
R. E. Landenberger,
J. B. McGraw,
Detection and analysis of
individual
leaf-off
tree
crowns
in
small
footprint,
high
sampling
density
lidar
data
from
the
eastern
deciduous
forest
in
north
america,
Remote
Sensing
of
Environment
85
(2003)
290
–
303.
URL:
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425703000087.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/S0034-4257(03)00008-7.
[43] X. Lu, Q. Guo, W. Li, J. Flanagan,
A bottom-up approach to segment individual deciduous trees using
leaf-off LiDAR point cloud data,
ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 94 (2014) 1–12.
doi:10.1016/j.isprsjprs.2014.03.014.
[44] E. Barnea, R. Mairon, O. Ben-Shahar, Special issue: Robotic agriculture, Biosystems Engineering 146 (2016)
57–70. doi:10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2016.01.013.
[45] Y.
Ge,
Y.
Xiong,
P.
J.
From,
Symmetry-based
3D
shape
completion
for
fruit
lo-
calisation
for
harvesting
robots,
Biosystems
Engineering
197
(2020)
188
–
202.
URL:
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1537511020301963.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2020.07.003.
[46] H. Medeiros, D. Kim, J. Sun, H. Seshadri, S. A. Akbar, N. M. Elﬁky, J. Park,
Modeling dor-
mant fruit trees for agricultural automation,
Journal of Field Robotics 34 (2017) 1203–1224. URL:
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/rob.21679.
doi:10.1002/rob.21679.
arXiv:https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdf/10.1002/rob.21679.
[47] L. He, J. Schupp, Sensing and automation in pruning of apple trees: A review, Agronomy 8 (2018) 211. URL:
http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/agronomy8100211. doi:10.3390/agronomy8100211.
[48] V.
Méndez,
J.
R.
Rosell-Polo,
M.
Pascual,
A.
Escolà
,
Multi-tree
woody
structure
re-
construction
from
mobile
terrestrial
laser
scanner
point
clouds
based
on
a
dual
neigh-
bourhood
connectivity
graph
algorithm,
Biosystems
Engineering
148
(2016)
34
–
47.
URL:
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1537511016300332.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2016.04.013.
[49] F. J. Yandún Narváez, J. Salvo del Pedregal, P. A. Prieto, M. Torres-Torriti, F. A. Auat Cheein,
LiDAR
and thermal images fusion for ground-based 3D characterisation of fruit trees, Biosystems Engineering 151
(2016) 479 – 494. URL: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1537511016300563.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2016.10.012.
[50] J. Rosell, R. Sanz, A review of methods and applications of the geometric characterization of tree crops in
agricultural activities, Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 81 (2012) 124–141.
[51] A. Coupel-Ledru, B. Pallas, M. Delalande, F. Boudon, E. Carrié, S. Martinez, J.-L. Regnard, E. Costes, Multi-
scale high-throughput phenotyping of apple architectural and functional traits in orchard reveals genotypic vari-
ability under contrasted watering regimes, Horticulture Research 6 (2019) 1–15.
[52] A. Tabb, H. Medeiros, A robotic vision system to measure tree traits, in: 2017 IEEE/RSJ International Confer-
ence on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), 2017, pp. 6005–6012. doi:10.1109/IROS.2017.8206497.
25

A PREPRINT - DECEMBER 29, 2020
[53] J.
T.
Colmenero-Martinez,
G.
L.
Blanco-Roldán,
S.
Bayano-Tejero,
F.
J.
Castillo-Ruiz,
R.
R.
Sola-Guirado,
J.
A.
Gil-Ribes,
An
automatic
trunk-detection
system
for
in-
tensive
olive
harvesting
with
trunk
shaker,
Biosystems
Engineering
172
(2018)
92
–
101.
URL:
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1537511017309741.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2018.06.002.
[54] J. Zhang, L. He, M. Karkee, Q. Zhang, X. Zhang, Z. Gao, Branch detection with apple trees trained in fruit-
ing wall architecture using stereo vision and regions-convolutional neural network(R-CNN), in: 2017 ASABE
Annual International Meeting, 2017. doi:10.13031/aim.201700427.
[55] L. Zeng,
J. Feng,
L. He,
Semantic segmentation of sparse 3D point cloud based
on geo-
metrical
features
for
trellis-structured
apple
orchard,
Biosystems
Engineering
196
(2020)
46
–
55.
URL:
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1537511020301288.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2020.05.015.
[56] M. Nielsen, D. C. Slaughter, C. Gliever, S. Upadhyaya, Orchard and tree mapping and description using stereo
vision and lidar, in: International Conference of Agricultural Engineering, 2012.
[57] J. P. Underwood, G. Jagbrant, J. I. Nieto, S. Sukkarieh, Lidar-based tree recognition and platform localization in
orchards, Journal of Field Robotics 32 (2015) 1056–1074.
[58] L. Zhong, L. Cheng, H. Xu, Y. Wu, Y. Chen, M. Li, Segmentation of individual trees from TLS and MLS data,
IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Applied Earth Observations and Remote Sensing 10 (2016) 774–787.
[59] S. Bargoti, J. P. Underwood, J. I. Nieto, S. Sukkarieh, A pipeline for trunk detection in trellis structured apple
orchards, Journal of Field Robotics 32 (2015) 1075–1094.
[60] P. Roy, W. Dong, V. Isler, Registering reconstructions of the two sides of fruit tree rows, in: 2018 IEEE/RSJ
International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), 2018, pp. 1–9.
[61] C. Wu, Towards linear-time incremental structure from motion, in: 2013 International Conference on 3D Vision
- 3DV 2013, 2013, pp. 127–134.
[62] C. Wu, S. Agarwal, B. Curless, S. M. Seitz, Multicore bundle adjustment, in: Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition 2011, 2011, pp. 3057–3064.
[63] Y. Furukawa, B. Curless, S. M. Seitz, R. Szeliski, Towards Internet-scale multi-view stereo, in: 2010 IEEE
Computer Society Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2010, pp. 1434–1441.
[64] Y. Furukawa, J. Ponce, Accurate, dense, and robust multiview stereopsis, IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis
and Machine Intelligence 32 (2010) 1362–1376.
[65] R. I. Hartley, A. Zisserman, Multiple View Geometry in Computer Vision, second ed., Cambridge University
Press, ISBN: 0521540518, 2004.
[66] P. D. Marrero Fernández, F. A. Guerrero Peña, T. Ing Ren, J. J. Leandro,
Fast and robust multi-
ple ColorChecker detection using deep convolutional neural networks,
Image and Vision Computing 81
(2019) 15 – 24. URL: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0262885618301793.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.imavis.2018.11.001.
[67] T.
Lee,
R.
Kashyap,
C.
Chu,
Building
skeleton
models
via
3-D
medial
surface
axis
thinning
algorithms,
CVGIP:
Graphical
Models
and
Image
Processing
56
(1994)
462
–
478.
URL:
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S104996528471042X.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1006/cgip.1994.1042.
[68] R. O. Duda, P. E. Hart, Use of the Hough transformation to detect lines and curves in pictures, Commun. ACM
15 (1972) 11–15. URL: https://doi.org/10.1145/361237.361242. doi:10.1145/361237.361242.
[69] P.
Torr,
A.
Zisserman,
MLESAC:
A
new
robust
estimator
with
application
to
esti-
mating
image
geometry,
Computer
Vision
and
Image
Understanding
78
(2000)
138
–
156.
URL:
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1077314299908329.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1006/cviu.1999.0832.
[70] R. C. Gonzalez, R. E. Woods, Digital Image Processing (3rd Edition), Prentice-Hall, Inc., USA, 2006.
[71] T. H. Cormen, C. E. Leiserson, R. L. Rivest, C. Stein, Introduction to Algorithms, Third Edition, 3rd ed., The
MIT Press, 2009.
[72] S. Torbert, Applied Computer Science, 2nd ed., Springer Publishing Company, Incorporated, 2016.
[73] Y. Chen, G. G. Medioni, Object modeling by registration of multiple range images., Image and Vision Computing
10 (1992) 145–155.
26

A PREPRINT - DECEMBER 29, 2020
[74] U. R. Mogili, B. Deepak, Review on application of drone systems in precision agriculture, Procedia Computer
Science 133 (2018) 502–509.
[75] M. Holden, A review of geometric transformations for nonrigid body registration, IEEE Transactions on Medical
Imaging 27 (2007) 111–128.
[76] F. Hallé, Architectures de Plantes, JPC Editions, 109 Avenue de Lodève, 34070 Montpellier, France, 2004.
[77] P. Roy, A. Kislay, P. A. Plonski, J. Luby, V. Isler, Vision-based preharvest yield mapping for apple orchards,
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture 164 (2019) 104897.
[78] N. Häni, P. Roy, V. Isler, Apple counting using convolutional neural networks, in: 2018 IEEE/RSJ International
Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), IEEE, 2018, pp. 2559–2565.
[79] N. Häni, P. Roy, V. Isler, A comparative study of fruit detection and counting methods for yield mapping in apple
orchards, Journal of Field Robotics 37 (2020) 263–282.
[80] P.-E. Lauri, E. Terouanne, J.-M. Lespinasse,
Quantitative analysis of relationships between inﬂorescence
size, bearing-axis size and fruit-set —an apple tree case study,
Annals of Botany 77 (1996) 277–286.
doi:10.1006/anbo.1996.0031.
[81] P. E. Lauri, J. J. Kelner, C. Trottier, E. Costes, Insights into secondary growth in perennial plants: its unequal
spatial and temporal dynamics in the apple (Malus domestica) is driven by architectural position and fruit load,
Annals of Botany 105 (2010) 607–616. doi:10.1093/aob/mcq006.
27
